I would ask you, as a matter of urgency, to ensure that Members can go about their business in this House without interference from representatives of the media. &#160;&#160; I will have the services look into that to ensure that we can go about our business as we ought to be able to in the House. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as I am sure you are aware, next Wednesday the world will commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Rwandan genocide.
I believe that last week's European Council has contributed to securing positive outcomes in a very real way.
One important factor, I am convinced, is the excellent working relationship that has been built up between the Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament.
The European Council has clearly shown how much can be achieved when we succeed in doing this.
At the same time, fundamental human rights in our democracies must be protected.
I am glad to say also that the Declaration endorsed a proposal made by European parliamentarians to declare 11 March a European Day commemorating the victims of terrorism.
It also contains a commitment to effective cooperation with third countries and other international organisations, in particular the United Nations.
The European Council will look again at the Action Plan on Terrorism in June and we will all agree the key tasks and the deadlines by which these tasks are to be achieved.
The European Council also agreed a Declaration on Solidarity against Terrorism.
This commits the Member States to act jointly in a spirit of solidarity if one of them is the victim of a terrorist attack.
The Declaration represents an important political signal of our solidarity in the fight against terrorism.
I appreciate very much that President Cox participated in the first session of our meeting on terrorism.
The solidarity shown by the institutions of the Union conveyed an important message.
The threat of terrorism is a threat to our security, our democracies and our way of life in the European Union.
We will do everything in our power to protect our people from this threat.
I am particularly pleased that there was major progress in the Intergovernmental Conference.
On the basis of my report, the European Council requested the presidency to continue its consultations.
It also requested the presidency to arrange for the resumption of formal negotiations in the IGC as soon as appropriate.
It decided that agreement on the new Constitution should be reached no later than the June European Council.
We could not have reached agreement on a timeframe for the conclusion of the IGC without the political commitment of my colleagues in the European Council.
We also recognised that, even though the final negotiations will be difficult, there was no reason to believe that they would become any easier in time.
There was also a sense of the need for flexibility and compromise on all sides.
The development of this positive and constructive spirit made it possible to decide to go for it now.
We have also ascertained that many of the additional proposals made by the Italian presidency would have been acceptable to partners in the context of an overall agreement.
Parliament’s representatives, like those of all other delegations, have made clear to us which issues are of particular importance to you.
However, I can assure you – as I can assure everybody else – that the presidency will be open and even-handed in its dealings with everyone.
As I said in my report, the most difficult issues remain the size and composition of the Commission, and the definition and scope of qualified majority voting.
It is clear that only a voting system based on double majority can command a consensus.
At the same time, there is also a need to take account of the particular concerns of Member States in relation to a number of specific issues.
I believe that a satisfactory overall outcome, which will involve a growth in the number of areas subject to QMV and codecision, in comparison with the present Treaties, will be found.
However, in the period ahead, it will be essential to reach agreement on as many subjects as possible, to boil down to the minimum the number of outstanding questions.
In this process, the presidency intends to make use of the full range of channels, including bilateral meetings and official-level discussions.
But the IGC is, of course, conducted at political level, and I will be asking Foreign Ministers to take forward work on a range of issues during the final negotiations at the level of Heads of State or Government.
However, account will have to be taken of a number of factors, including the formation of new governments in some countries and the number of issues still to be resolved.
I was greatly encouraged by the response of the European Parliament to our ideas at that time.
My colleagues agreed with my proposal that discussions should be on two overarching themes – sustainable growth and employment – as the key challenges needed to be tackled urgently.
The European Council agreed that we need a balanced approach if we are to ensure that future growth will be sustainable.
We need to maintain sound macro-economic policies while promoting greater competitiveness and innovation.
At the same time, social cohesion must remain central to our approach.
The European Parliament’s constructive engagement with the Council has been pivotal in enabling us to make real progress on all aspects of the Union’s work, not least in legislative work directly related to the Lisbon Agenda.
I am delighted in this context to welcome your approval yesterday of two important legislative proposals – the Financial Instruments Markets Directive and the Transparency Directive.
A key challenge identified at the European Council was in the services sector, which remains highly fragmented.
Success in creating a true single market in this area will yield considerable benefits for the European consumer.
The services sector has accounted for 70% of job creation and growth over the past ten years.
I am pleased to report that the European Council, seeing the potential for expansion in this area, agreed that the draft directive on services, currently under consideration in the Council, should be agreed as a matter of high priority.
The European Council welcomed the four-presidency initiative led by Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the UK, which will drive this issue forward as a priority over the next two years.
The European Council agreed, as a first step in this process, that the European Framework Programme for Research and Development should be made more user-friendly, to facilitate greater R[amp]D investment by small and medium-sized enterprises and start-up companies.
The European Council also stressed the need for investment in basic research.
Growth must be not only economically sustainable but also environmentally sustainable.
One of the most interesting new areas in this regard is that of environmental technologies.
The European Council recognises the importance of enabling companies to exploit new technologies, and has called for the rapid implementation of the Environmental Technologies Action Plan.
The Commission is to prepare a report for next year’s European Council on progress in this area.
Of course, growth and competitiveness are not ends in themselves: they are the means to secure and develop the European social model, with its emphasis on sustainability and inclusion.
Protecting the most vulnerable members of our society is an essential part of the Lisbon Agenda.
The European Council agreed that Member States should give urgent attention to four particular structural challenges, identified by the Employment Taskforce and reinforced in the Joint Employment Report.
High employment will boost growth and also provides the best route out of poverty and social exclusion.
I hope that we can finalise this dossier jointly before the end of the term.
Equally, I look forward to fruitful cooperation on the related dossiers of Europass and the Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications Directive, which are aimed at making it easier to have educational qualifications recognised in other Member States.
To this end, the European Council agreed to the presidency's proposal to establish Reform Partnerships in each Member State, according to national arrangements and traditions, involving the social partners, civil society and the public authorities.
Wim Kok’s appointment will provide continuity with the earlier work of the Employment Taskforce.
The European Council reviewed a number of issues on the international agenda and adopted conclusions on the Middle East Peace Process, Iraq, the Strategic Partnership with the Mediterranean and the Middle East, Russia, Afghanistan and the Ivory Coast.
The European Council reviewed the situation in Kosovo following the recent outbreak of ethnically motivated violence.
The situation appears to have stabilised, but remains tense.
The European Union remains fully committed to a stable future for a secure, democratic, prosperous and multi-ethnic Kosovo.
The Council also discussed the situation in the Middle East, which continues to be of grave concern.
The presidency is maintaining close contact with the leaders of the principal Arab States to ensure that momentum in the peace process is not lost.
On Afghanistan, the European Council looks forward to the international conference on Afghanistan that is taking place today in Berlin.
The accession of a united Cyprus on 1 May remains the strong preference of the European Union.
In our conclusions, the European Council reiterated the Union’s support for the UN-led negotiations and reaffirmed our readiness to accommodate the terms of a settlement in line with the principles on which the European Union is founded.
This European Council took place at a critically important time in the history of the European Union.
The first of May will mark the end of the post-war division of the continent and enable us to move forward together towards a better, more inclusive Europe.
I look forward to continuing to work in full cooperation with the European Parliament and the European Commission.
Over the last half century the peace objectives have evolved and stabilised, and today all the players in our united Europe share some deep-felt principles, because being part of the Union means respecting the fundamental rights of the person, regulating public life democratically, and developing and protecting our political, economic and social development model.
The European Council which closed in Brussels last Saturday followed the same instinct.
Terrorism is the worst challenge since the Second World War ever to confront both the democratic, civilised principles regulating public life and our societies themselves, based as they are on respect for human rights.
The Declaration approved in Brussels leaves no room for doubt: the European Union Member States are forming a united front with the shared objective of completely eradicating terrorism.
The most important thing at the moment, however, is that Europeans have realised that force alone is not enough to defeat terrorism.
First, as the Declaration solemnly states, it means strengthening the bond of mutual trust between Europe and the United States, which is already close and loyal.
It is, however, just as fundamental to ensure that the United Nations has both a central role to play and the credibility that this requires.
The UN must be actively involved in any intervention on the ground and in any political projects aiming at restoring stability in crisis regions.
Our contribution must be to involve and mobilise the resources of all countries in order to isolate terrorist groups.
The success of our strategy against international terrorism in fact depends on peace in the Middle East.
Both these initiatives – in the Middle East and in Iraq – have to be concluded and carried through under the aegis of the United Nations.
For some years, however, the European economy has been in difficulty and this threatens one of the pillars of our Union: our economic and social model.
Four years ago, in Lisbon, the Union decided that in order to maintain and develop our way of life we should put in place a thorough reform of our economic systems.
These are clearly defined measures that have already been approved by the European Council and can all be put into motion quickly.
In these difficult times we must set aside our differences and provide the European Union with the means required to build a more solid framework of cooperation, one which will allow us to make joint decisions and to pool our resources.
Positive signals had been arriving in recent weeks from various governments, saying that they were ready to compromise.
Nonetheless, I appeal for the final compromise to be a good one that will allow the enlarged Union of the Twenty-Five to operate efficiently. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels Summit had as its focus and main subject the terrible events of March 11, 2004 in Madrid, and it was good that it drew from them the necessary conclusions.
Kennedy in 1963 said in a divided Berlin: ‘Ich bin ein Berliner’, I think that, as Europeans, we must adopt a similar attitude towards our Spanish partners and friends.
We must say that this attack in Madrid was not only an attack on Spain, but an attack on Europe as a whole, on the entire Western world, the entire world.
This must be our answer to terrorism.
It is right that the summit has accepted the solidarity clause in the version of the Constitution.
Let me also say, however, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – and this intervention will certainly not be the last word – that we would have welcomed it if the office of the security coordinator had been established not in the area of foreign policy and intergovernmental collaboration but, as the Commission wanted, in the area of the Community institutions, so that it would also be subject to Parliamentary and legal control.
I think this is important for the future, and, whilst I would not wish to put a question mark against the creation of this position, it will also be necessary for us not to treat it simply as an alibi in order to be able to say that we have done enough in this area.
I believe that the most important thing, in discussions of internal security and terrorism, is that we should tell the Arab world that we do not identify terrorism with them or with Islam.
We must counter contempt for humanity with the dignity of man, asserting our principles of life against their principles of death, and, in place of hatred, our desire for collaboration.
The right answer to give the world is that Europe is determined and united. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, above all as a person from Madrid and speaking on behalf of my fellow countrymen in this House, please allow me to express my gratitude for the expressions of support, solidarity and condolences received not only from Europe but from the whole world.
I would like expressly to address President Cox, because his institutional declaration on behalf of Parliament had an enormous impact in Madrid and in Spain and was a match for the dramatic circumstances we are living through.
This demonstrates that we are not working seriously to combat terrorism and that we have to take very important steps, because we feel solidarity but we are all threatened.
Having said this, Mr President, please allow me to move on to the second issue, which is the Constitution.
We already have at least three or four Commissioners who are returning to their countries – which demonstrates that there is life after the European Union – but this is raising a serious problem: we cannot continue with a situation in which a Commissioner is in office for just ten months.
We must all try to take care to respect the way things are done, that is essential in a democracy.
Finally, with regard to the important issue of Cyprus, I would like on behalf of our group to reiterate our unconditional support for the efforts being made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to find a solution to the issue of Cyprus and by doing so to help the enlargement process to be successful.
I believe we must call on both parties to take this historic opportunity and to unify a country which has been divided for 40 years, thereby removing the last remaining wall in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has been a while since everybody left a European Council meeting smiling.
I congratulate the presidency on a focused summit that delivered in many respects.
European Liberal Democrats and Reformers welcome the new will to reach agreement on a European Constitution by the June European Council.
We expect the Council to respect the budgetary powers of Parliament and extend democracy in our Union through qualified majority voting and greater codecision.
We expect the Council to make the difficult compromises needed in good faith and then go back to sell those compromises at home.
If this is not our frontline defence against terror then it is just a cheap gamble with the safety of Europeans.
This House has been urging a more concerted policy on terrorism since before 11 September 2001.
On biometrics, on passenger data transfers – that is what we are in danger of getting.
My Group welcomes the commitment in Council to speeding up the pace of reform on the Lisbon Agenda.
We remind the Council that 40% of the single market directives have not been implemented in all Member States.
We remind the Council that the Growth and Stability Pact must be revived this year so that Europeans can have confidence in the sound management of Europe's economy.
The tone of public debate in Germany and France suggests that European governments are not properly making the case for reform at home, whatever they may say in Brussels.
Let us hope the political will holds and the momentum lasts – for all of our sakes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the conclusions of this Spring Summit show that government leaders are stubbornly pursuing a policy that is indifferent to the worsening economic and social situation, that turns a blind eye to the high levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and the increase in social inequalities and a deaf ear to the protests of workers threatened by the relocation and restructuring of multinational companies.
We saw an example of this only yesterday, with the Canadian multinational , which is seeking to close many of its production units in countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Portugal, and which, where my own country is concerned, is the only company engaged in producing rolling stock and train carriages.
This is demonstrated by the new Commissioner for Social Affairs’ acknowledgement that only 10% of the ‘Lisbon Strategy’ objectives have been achieved.
This has not stopped the Council from announcing more of the same, however, despite the fact that we are less than two months away from the accession of a further ten countries whose economic and social situation is less than rosy.
The Council’s recipe for success is still to commit to this ‘competitiveness’, to promoting what it considers to be business culture, to greater job flexibility and insecurity, to lower labour costs and wage moderation and to attacking public services – in other words, to the neo-liberal agenda of economic and financial groups, instead of being concerned with people’s living and working conditions, with sustainable development, with greater economic and social cohesion and with providing fresh impetus for public and social investment, specifically in the railways, in health, in the environment, in education and in research.
The Council suggests that the priority should be to speed up the pace of reforms in the fields of employment, social security and health, despite growing public opposition to measures that, in some of our countries, are jeopardising fundamental social rights.
What is being promised is ongoing support for the process of liberalisation and privatisation in many sectors, demonstrating blatant prejudice against the public sector.
Continued intervention in this sphere cannot be allowed, because this threatens the existence of high-quality public services and employment, which are crucial to combating poverty and to guaranteeing social inclusion and a high standard of living for the entire population.
Economic and monetary policies must be revised, liberalisations must be halted and the Stability Pact must be reviewed in order to prioritise the social criteria, employment, training, education and research, which are all areas crucial to Europe’s sustainable development.
What is needed are effective measures to put a brake on the relocation of multinationals and to give European employees’ organisations the right to a ‘suspensive’ veto.
Working people must be treated with dignity and well-being and social progress must be placed at the heart of Community policy-making. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, it has been said that this was a European Council of newly-discovered cohesion in the wake of the terrible tragedy in Madrid, which has left us in no doubt that today we are all potential victims of indiscriminate terrorism, whereby blasphemous criminals manipulate a great religion to their own bloody ends.
We hope that there really was cohesion but, after reading the conclusions and listening to the President-in-Office of the Council, and especially after observing the measures taken by the Member States and the proposals made by the Commission regarding asylum and the protection of their citizens’ personal data, I must express our deep concern.
We need a path that sets democratic stability, respect for human rights and a rejection of emergency measures as preconditions for action on the international stage and for cooperation in matters of internal security.
How serious we are about the fight against terrorism can also be measured by the European Union’s ability to give itself a constitution, as we have all said here today: a constitution able to keep its promises of effectiveness and democracy.
The positive spirit of this European Council does not, however, rid us of our concerns, which were strengthened today, Mr Ahern, by your ambiguous message about the Italian Presidency’s well-known or, rather, infamous 82 items, which every so often pop up as a basis for negotiations and are just as often forgotten.
The European Council talked a lot about the economy and growth.
I think that would actually be a good idea.
The Taoiseach has certainly intensified the series of bilateral negotiations with other European Union governments with regard to the provisions of a new EU Treaty, but, as the Taoiseach said himself in Strasbourg in January, this is a job one cannot do on one's own.
It requires the good will and the support of many from both the smaller and larger Member States within the European Union.
I fully understand and believe that this is not going to be an easy task, but we must not underestimate the challenges that lie before us.
There will be a new President of the European Commission, perhaps half the Commission will be replaced, and the composition of the European Parliament is going to change by July of this year.
That could mean two out of every three Members present at this Parliament being replaced.
The scourge of international terrorism must also be tackled head on, and I agree wholeheartedly with the views and comments expressed by the previous speakers.
Appointments of key new personnel in Europe to tackle international terrorism in Europe are to be welcomed, but we must remember that democracy is fragile and we must be strong in our efforts to promote the rule of law and protect democratic institutions.
Al Qaeda represents evil of a barbaric nature and for Al&#160;Qaeda human life means absolutely nothing.
That is not so and we should never allow anybody to say so.
Only by collective resolve can we defeat the evil of terrorism, and I welcome the recent measures taken by European governments in this regard. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European elections will – as you perhaps know – be held between 10 and 13 June, but it is to a perfect travesty of democracy that approximately 300 million voters in twenty five countries will be summoned.
We shall inform you of our decision after the elections, and many of those who are preparing to open the doors of membership to this country in October will campaign in June by swearing to God – and you can say that again – that they are opposed to it.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a great responsibility falls to you today: you must move the June Council forward before the European elections – a week would be sufficient – so that the first elections of the enlarged Europe would not be yet another hoax.
Because if such were the case, on such a scale, do not doubt, Mr President, that the backlash would be equal to the insult to democracy in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, on the subject of the Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, I believe it is a delusion to take the shortcut of getting the national bureaucracies to cooperate without any democratic or judicial control.
As with Europol, with Eurojust it is not just a matter of individual rights and freedoms, however serious these issues may be, but also a problem of effectiveness: indeed, you have not succeeded in conferring true powers on this coordinator for the fight against terrorism.
If creating Mr&#160;Counter-Terrorism is to be the paradigm for the new Constitution that we want, any modest increase in powers at the expense of giving up democracy and the rule of law is not the road that we want to go down.
We would have preferred it if the European Union had had the strength to choose, to propose and to decide to do the opposite of what the terrorists want. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the terrorist attack in Madrid was an attack on all of us who believe in democracy.
I welcome the resolution from the spring summit to appoint a counter-terrorism coordinator.
All our Member States must cooperate fully to minimise the risks for all our citizens.
We must do all in our power to work with the many leaders and spokespersons in the Arab world who feel as strongly as we do in the West about these atrocities.
We must never forget that terrorism is rooted in poverty and social exclusion and, as we discuss the economic governance of the EU at the spring summit, we must realise that our economic growth depends on peace and stability which, in turn, depend on our efforts to ensure economic stability and growth in those parts of the world where poverty and social exclusion are the norm for millions of young men and women.
Countering terrorism is in large measure countering poverty.
As far as the Lisbon agenda is concerned, I say to our Taoiseach that we have failed yet again to deliver progress on our much-quoted ambition for the EU to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
I object strongly, as I am sure do many Irish people and colleagues here, to Ireland initiating diplomatic relations with a military dictatorship that controls the Burmese against the will of its people.
Thank you, as Enda Kenny said recently in the Dáil, to the Permanent Representation and all the civil servants behind the scenes who made this technically a very good presidency. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, , every man and woman here will welcome the fact that you have been able to resurrect the issue of the Constitution.
You can rely on our support for every further step in the Constitution-making process.
There are three matters that still particularly concern us: the first is the qualified majority.
We are glad that the principle of the double majority seems to have been accepted.
However, in the design of this double majority, the crucial objective is not strengthening the blockade minority, not making it easier to hold the European Union back, but strengthening its capacity for decision-making.
Please do not accept shoddy compromises in this area.
However, I say to you now that a Constitution tending to reduce the intrinsic right of any Parliament, namely the right to set the budget, cannot be acceptable to us in the European Parliament.
Despite the fact that terrorism has reared its ugly head in several Member States on previous occasions, we have perhaps naively believed for a long time that these major attacks could never happen to us.
We must create much better preconditions for the coordination of intelligence services and also, in time, create a kind of European FBI that is also operational.
The most important work in the fight against terrorism, however, is the work on peace and development, and there is much that the EU can do in this regard.
It is very important, therefore, that the Convention’s proposals in this field be adopted.
Europe’s international role can and must be aimed at achieving a fairer and more cooperative world, without poverty or inequality, which deprives the attackers of democracy and freedom, who must always be condemned, of any justification.
We must hold a world conference against terrorism under the auspices of the UN, where the different measures can be explained: cooperation amongst police forces; structural problems: poverty, debt, inequality; the role of the financial institutions and also of the different commercial bodies; combating tax havens and money-laundering.
Please allow me, firstly, to express my condolences and solidarity with the victims and their families, and also to reject all forms of terrorism.
It was already known that the attack had not been by ETA and, despite that, pressure was applied and the involvement of ETA was artificially maintained in the Resolution of the European Parliament and in that of the United Nations Security Council.
To make matters worse, millions of European citizens and governments of other States were shamelessly deceived by the Popular Party Government, who did not care a jot about the risk of further attacks and deaths in other cities, provided that the Spanish people did not know until after the elections of Sunday 14 that the horrors suffered in Madrid were a response to the unjust and illegal war in Iraq.
And let us hope that we can convince ourselves soon that the best recipe for combating terrorism is to put an end to injustice and poverty, of which there is so much around the world, and in that way we will be able to live in peace. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, 25 countries have now agreed to prepare an EU Constitution by 17 June.
Compromises have already been negotiated behind the scenes, and a double majority, with population as a decisive element, has been approved as a principle.
What are now being negotiated are the percentages for the number of countries and the number of citizens.
We also propose that 75% of the countries, at the same time representing 50% of the population, shall be required as a qualified majority.
My experience from all the group visits and meetings is that the minority's fifteen points correspond much better to the attitude of the majority of voters.
Anyone who is in doubt about this can look at the regional elections in France, where the great leader and Sun King from the EU Convention will soon be the former chairman of a council.
He is someone in whom I have confidence, in contrast to the head of OLAF, who steals computers and telephone and address books to reveal journalists’ sources. &#160;&#160; Mr President, given the short time that has been allocated to me, I should like to confine myself to one aspect, and that is the problem that many people in Europe have with defining the problem of terrorism.
We should therefore put a stop, in the first instance, to growing Islamic extremism within the EU.
In Belgium, for example, the state security service complains that it lacks the necessary means to monitor Muslim fundamentalism.
The European institutions’ support for the victims must not just be moral, however, but also material.
In order to cover these needs, my group requested the inclusion, for the first time in the 2004 budget, of a line of EUR 1&#160;million for the creation of a pilot programme to support the victims of terrorism and their families.
That, Mr President, is the commitment of the PPE-DE Group which has been included amongst the political priorities for the next legislature and which provides for the creation of a European fund for compensating the victims of terrorism.
I repeat the request made by several colleagues, because it is essential that the Member States cooperate by quickly incorporating the measures adopted within the framework of the third pillar.
It is vitally important to improve security in the prevention sector in Europe.
We will overcome it if we face it together, with democratic conviction and with the force of the Rule of Law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following 11 September this Parliament worked quickly and very seriously supporting the Commission and calling on the Council for a series of measures to confront terrorism.
The Union's institutions worked efficiently to achieve a common definition of the crime of terrorism and to achieve and implement the European arrest warrant.
In this and other Community institutions great statements were made in favour of better police cooperation, a strengthening of the task force of police chiefs, an operative Europol under effective judicial control; furthermore, efforts were made to achieve the establishment of minimum judicial guarantees and, finally, to create a framework providing us with greater security and speed in situations such as the one which had arisen in the United States.
Furthermore, this happened during the debate on the new Constitution, which was creating a framework providing significant opportunities to improve the legal area for police and judicial cooperation and to subject it to the essential parliamentary control.
Europe can and must act differently.
But it seems to me that it is not yet accepted in practice because one sees the various ministers trying to supplement the dual-majority formula with further qualifying clauses which would permit a specified number of Member States to form a blocking minority.
Europe cannot be built upon mathematical equations, but on political trust. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the criminal attacks in Madrid clearly show that Europe has become the direct target area of international terrorism.
The political world must take account of this, in both the short- and the long-term.
The immediate tasks include the withdrawal of the USA and its allies from Iraq, the peaceful resolution of the Middle Eastern conflict, and also an embargo on European arms exports.
Such are the long-term strategic tasks that the European Union must set itself in the struggle against terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Summit in Brussels last week gave a mandate to the Irish presidency to complete the negotiations for the Constitutional Treaty by the next summit on 17 June.
To move from a Union of 15 Member States – soon to be 25 – to a single state with legal entity, whose laws will have primacy over the laws of those Member States, is a development which my party – the UK Independence Party – believes should not be concluded without the express will of the population by a referendum.
Our politicians in Westminster voted yesterday to deny the British electorate that right.
We shall continue to put pressure on our government to concede a referendum.
If he does sign up to it, let us be clear: it will mean the end of our right to self-government. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the summit was – as has been frequently stated today – held under the shadow of the attacks in Madrid.
The Lisbon strategy of 2000 has the ambitious objective of making the EU the strongest economic area in the world.
Nevertheless, I am realistic and I see that many chapters in the draft Constitution are still controversial: the question of how many Commissioners there should be for each country, the principle of rotation, the weighting of the votes.
There remains, I must say, a deafening silence on our own inability to reduce the tide of regulation, which gravely damages our competitiveness and destroys jobs.
You have argued, Taoiseach, that Member State governments must show flexibility and compromise on all sides – I noted your words.
That is why my party says that we should trust the people and have a referendum. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency, the Taoiseach, Minister Roche and Minister Cowen for the progress they have made on the European Constitution.
An enormous step forward has been taken, but we still must reach a conclusion on the text.
As one of the 200 parliamentarians from every corner of Europe who prepared this text in open forum, may I say that what we have is a qualitatively different treaty proposal from any treaty that has ever been put before the people of Europe.
I believe that it will not be acceptable to this Parliament, or to the people of Europe, for deals to be done, behind closed doors, which seriously damage the coherence, the values, the objectives and the capacity to act that the current text provides.
The collection of information is important to prevent awful atrocities, such as those we have seen in Madrid.
It is not enough for us to simply seek to improve our capacity to arrest, detain, charge and imprison, important as that is; we must guard against those actions that undermine the very rights that we seek to defend.
We have to ensure that we also improve our intellectual capacity to analyse and understand exactly what is driving this new form of terrorism.
I admit that there were subjects to discuss that were important in themselves, but I wish to object to the almost total disregard for economic and social development.
The Lisbon process is not at all functioning as intended, and the problems are great.
Vigorous policy efforts in the Member States would of course be required, as it is there that economic policy must be given tangible form.
Everyone is talking about lifelong learning, but in reality the Member States are investing nothing at all in education; on the contrary, they are making cutbacks.
In both Germany and France, we are seeing how the electorate is protesting against an economic and social policy that is now being left to its own devices. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, we all were deeply affected by the attack in Madrid, and I am very pleased that the European Council of last 25 March responded to it by anticipating the solidarity clause.
In addition, the Council has set 17 June as the deadline for the end of the negotiations on the draft of the European Constitution.
This decision is less simple than it seems, because compromises on some essential points have still not yet been reached.
This decision also seems to have very little respect for universal suffrage.
Indeed, whether the agreement will be announced after the European elections or whether it is achieved a fortnight before does not change much.
In any case, the result is that there will be no time to organise a concrete debate.
Once again, Mr President, this method speaks volumes about the sort of Europe that this Constitution heralds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, regarding the conclusions of the European Council, I would like to take the liberty of emphasising three points.
What we expect in response to terrorism, and after the tragedy at Madrid, is determination and effectiveness.
We are demanding more efficiency for Europol and Eurojust, just as we can only regret that certain countries have not yet given their opinion on the European arrest warrant.
Mr President-in-Office, this will have to be settled if things are to change, because, in Madrid, it was not Spain that was attacked, but all of Europe.
We need more Europe, we need a constitution as soon as possible, because Europe must propose a contract of trust to the Europeans.
Finally, our political action must be coherent, effective, and sustainable.
Our immediate objective should be economic prosperity, on which employment depends, and which is the sole source of social progress.
This is how we will get our fellow citizens involved in the European project. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is moving forward with its responses and, after the drama in Madrid, after the one in New York, we have made, and are continuing to make progress in the fight against terrorism.
After New York we had a long and difficult negotiation on the European arrest warrant.
We had consolidated the advances concerning Europol and Eurojust.
Behind the scenes, though, implementation is so slow and so heartbreaking for our fellow countrymen that it is necessary to find other means to force the hands of the Heads of State or Government.
Indeed, having given their agreement to the Council, they then forget to implement the subject of the agreement in their own countries.
It was under the pressure of events that a coordinator was appointed, even though, in fact, there is an underlying idea, an intuition, one that inspired many of us within the Convention itself: the idea that, with regard to matters where the Heads of State or Government are entitled to their say and must be able to cooperate actively with the tools of a European vision, tools that are in the hands of a Commission, better coordination between various European authorities is needed.
In fact, this coordinator is a foretaste of what must one day, doubtless, be implemented.
I believe that it is necessary to reflect on this if we want to be effective in coordinating the resources of the fight against terrorism.
In this spirit, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have in your hands the future of the European Constitution, because you now have a defined mandate with a somewhat difficult schedule, one that is certainly welcome in so far as it provides Greater Europe, which will be finally reunited on 1 May, with a Constitution in the short term, but that is, all the same, somewhat problematic in view of the elections to the European Parliament.
Beyond this, though, I see a risk of backing down with regard to what was enacted in the&#160;Convention: I want to speak about the prospect of a European prosecutor, I want to speak about qualified majority voting where it was possible to get it, in the fiscal and social area, even though this is not enough.
Finally, Mr President, you have a very serious problem where the composition of the Commission is concerned.
I again want to draw your attention, however, to a proposal that is on the table, that of not specifying the number of commissioners in the Constitution, and leaving to the President of the Commission, with the European Council, the freedom to define the balance of the composition of the Commission, by simply imposing a limit of one commissioner per Member State at the most.
Perhaps, for a certain time, this will lead to a Commission of 25 that will have to get organised, but at least we would leave ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Europe has woken up to the subject of terrorism, although it still leaves a bitter taste in the mouth to realise that this only happened after the massacre by Al Qaeda butchers of workers, children and ordinary people in Madrid.
What is surprising, however, is that in this morning’s speeches and also in the 18 pages of the Declaration on Solidarity against Terrorism there was no explicit reference to it.
If we want to be able to face the memory of the victims of this terrorism, we must address the problem of European Union aid to the Palestinian Authority and the destination of that aid, so that it does not end up funding terrorists, suicide bombers or even those purportedly social activities like training camps, which are actually schools for fundamentalism and extremism.
This new climate has actually been created as a result of the attitude of the Member States – including the most reluctant – in view of the new circumstances and I would like to stress that Spain has always been prepared to negotiate to make its conditions more flexible.
Europe wants and needs a constitution, but it must be a constitution in which all European citizens are recognised.
It is important to point out, Mr President, that, not only in view of the phenomenon of terrorism, but also of the crisis with the Stability Pact, the appreciation of the Euro and the challenges and opportunities raised by enlargement, the climate in the European Union at the moment is not at its most optimistic.
Mr President, apart from the structural reforms required by the Lisbon strategy, the most important thing, the qualitative leap which Europe must make, is to relaunch the European project, not as a mere monetary union, not as a mere single market, but the real political project, and, to this end, we are counting on the Presidency of the Council and, in particular, the Presidency of the European Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in one respect this Spring Summit has given us renewed hope.
We can say: ‘Ropes away, full steam ahead with the good ship !’ I very much hope that it will be possible to find a satisfactory solution to the critical points that have already been mentioned by others here today.
We must also speak with one voice in another area, in which the diversity of voices is much too great.
The Lisbon strategy is not yet lost.
However we are far from the objectives which we have set ourselves: the economic spring has not yet arrived, we have mass unemployment with more than 14&#160;million people unemployed, and more than 55 million people are living on the edge of poverty, and, if we consider investments, we must really speak of an ‘investment moratorium’ in Europe.
We also lack the necessary stimulus actually to achieve production growth, which we can implement only through a higher purchasing rate, that is to say, through a reduction of unemployment, in the European Union.
Further political measures are required.
We must continue to strive for reforms; we must dismantle barriers to trade and in particular services, but we must also concentrate on investment, and the Pact must not be an obstacle to this.
The continued lack of a Community patent is also a deterrent factor for leaders in research and development.
Only visible and specific results will convince the citizens of Europe of the advantages and added value of Europe.
The Taoiseach referred just now to the importance of give and take in these negotiations.
I return to the issue of give and take in relation to one specific point – the budgetary powers of the European Parliament.
We, as a Parliament, have given up our right jointly to decide by interinstitutional agreement with the Council on the financial perspectives and simply, instead, give our assent to those perspectives.
In exchange, we have taken the right to have the final say within those ceilings and within a margin of manoeuvre on every item of expenditure – what was previously obligatory and non-obligatory.
They would reduce Parliament to giving just an opinion on the financial perspectives and they would also place limits on the other aspects of our budgetary powers.
He said that his Group is altogether in favour of the Constitution.
They are also stirring up scare stories about the Constitution.
They are alleging that it creates a centralised superstate with all powers handed over to Brussels, where Brussels will be able to overrule national policy in every area of governance.
I hope that 'Harry Pottering' will sort out his Group – wave his magic wand, perhaps – and ask those Members who apparently want to belong to his very federalist group in the European Parliament to draw the consequences of that.
Under our Rules of Procedure, you join a political group on the basis of political affinity.
I wonder what affinity there is between the British Conservatives and the bulk of the PPE on this fundamental question.
There seems to be none, and I invite the PPE-DE to have a vigorous internal debate on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to begin my speech without expressing my gratitude, in my capacity as a Spaniard and as chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, for the European Council’s support for this Parliament's proposal that 11 March should be the European day for commemorating the victims of terrorism.
Recent events, as well as causing us dismay and anguish, have made us aware – as we in my country have unfortunately been for a long time – that the civilised world is at risk, in danger, from a new enemy whose limits cannot be defined: terrorism.
The European Union must unite in its efforts and urgently implement all the legal, financial and human instruments needed to combat terrorism.
And it is even less acceptable that, for purely budgetary or procedural reasons, the most effective instruments in the fight against terrorism, such as the Anti-Terrorist Unit, created within Europol as a result of the 11 September attacks, should be dismantled.
Our citizens deserve no less, ladies and gentlemen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, thank you very much for your consideration; great things are currently going on in my group, and so we had to be there.
I believe that we can still see a few places in which substantial negotiation will still be necessary.
Thirdly, I believe, precisely in the case of majority voting in the Council, that it must be ensured that we insist on majority voting in particular in the areas in which our citizens are particularly threatened because of terrorist actions, namely justice and internal policy.
Just to mention here three important areas in this context.
European leaders should have realised much earlier, before the attack in Madrid and preferably even before the Treaty of Amsterdam, that one of their most important political responsibilities is to guarantee external and internal security for the Union.
European leaders should have given the EU better real powers to hit out at terrorism and cross-border crime long before we were forced to adopt panic measures.
Years of inactivity are reflected in the programme with which the Irish Presidency is now exemplarily presenting us, but the issues merit a long-term approach.
An official in charge of counter-terrorism is certainly needed, but the Commission must be the central player.
The most natural thing would be to build on the competence we already have in the Commission, and supplement this with a Commissioner who fills the gap that the escalated fight against terrorism threatens to create in citizens’ basic protection, particularly the protection of their privacy.
In my London constituency yesterday British police arrested eight British citizens of Pakistani descent with half a tonne of bomb-making material.
I was particularly disturbed to read that 13% of British Muslims support suicide bombers.
I therefore welcome the statement yesterday by the British Muslim Council which has called upon all the leaders within their mosques to reject terrorism and to cooperate fully with the UK police and authorities in identifying those behind these recent attempts at violence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the European Council meeting we can at last feel satisfied.
The Convention’s proposal is a good basis for a constitutional agreement, as it is a balanced one that takes the interests of Europe as a whole into account.
There has been a lot of water under the bridge since the Lisbon Agenda was agreed.
Unfortunately, however, the currents have not brought the Union any closer to that celebrated goal which, in terms of its ambition and considering developments in the last few years, is almost as unrealistic as Brezhnev’s five-year plans.
The EU budget should not be cut in the next budget period: the focus must be on work to support competitiveness and growth.
The implementation of internal market legislation in the Member States must be stepped up.
Such laws as those pertaining to chemicals can often prove annoying from the point of view of improved competitiveness.
I wonder whether Europeans have recognised the nature of this threat appropriately and are prepared to meet it.
The need of the moment would appear to be prevention, for which purpose the data available in Europe, for example on terrorists, should be gathered together.
Although the national services possess a great deal of information, there is little willingness to share it at the European level.
Our immediate priority is to ensure the security of European Union citizens.
In the fight against terrorism it would be totally wrong and unacceptable for there to be any suggestion whatsoever that the Arab community in general is implicated or bears any kind of collective responsibility.
The declaration on combating terrorism underlines that we are at one in the European Union in assessing the gravity of the threat that terrorism poses.
We will report on progress at the June Council meeting on the implementation of these measures, including a revised European Union plan of action to combat terrorism.
Many people have stressed the need to follow up on the declaration and the other work at the European Council.
The European Council set a deadline for 1 May and the presidency invested a particular effort to ensure that yesterday's JHA Council would reach a political agreement.
I also emphasised last week that all of us in the Council have to make sure that the measures that we have agreed since 11 September must be put through as soon as possible.
There have been many changes in the European Council in recent weeks, and the position of a number of governments – not only the Spanish – is changing, which creates some difficulties.
Thus, we will do our utmost to move that on and make as much progress as possible.
However, the fact of having made that decision opens up flexibilities in other areas.
In my address I identified some of the key issues: obviously, the Commission; voting in the Council; and the seats in the European Parliament – particularly for the smaller Member States and also for the new Member States.
As always, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, but I would hope that we are moving towards agreement on many of these points.
As a result, we believe that it should be possible to reach a satisfactory outcome on all those issues and then we will come down to the few difficult ones.
As I said earlier, the European Council agreed a message of confidence and determination, showing that Europe has the will and the capacity to advance the Lisbon Agenda.
A few speakers drew attention to the continuing problems of delivering on the Lisbon Agenda.
It is a point that was addressed first in our European Council conclusions.
The challenges ahead may be significant, but the potential benefits for our people in Europe are also considerable.
The European Council obviously discussed this at a crucial time in the search for the settlement to the Cyprus problem with United Nations negotiations.
We have offered our full support to the efforts of Secretary-General Annan to help the parties seize the historic opportunity to bring about a comprehensive settlement.
In line with the understanding reached with the parties in New York last month, Secretary-General Annan has expressed his determination to conclude these negotiations in Switzerland tonight; so I wish the negotiators well.
A number of Members raised the budget issue.
As presidency of the European Union we have both an opportunity and a responsibility to speak to the Burmese authorities on behalf of the European Union.
I also thank the leaders of the groups for their cooperation and ongoing contacts with the presidency and with the Members of the IGC group, to whom I have had an opportunity to talk on numerous occasions, as recently as earlier this week in Dublin, where they were attending the Foreign Affairs Chairmen's Group.
I will of course be addressing the new Parliament on the other side of the June European Council, but I assure you that there will be some mechanism whereby we can continue to keep abreast of all the issues in the intervening period.
I cannot deny that this may cause some problems, and I cannot deny that it requires quick decisions to ensure the effectiveness and continuity of the delicate job of the Commission in these last months of its term.
The fact that national governments are time and again headhunting Commissioners to get through times of crisis or to prepare for re-election is clear, official recognition of the great political role that this institution has played throughout this term of office.
It will be the same with the other two cases ahead of us and any others that occur in future, since there probably will be other cases; there will be other Commissioners standing in the European elections, something that I consider a highly positive sign.
I must clarify that I am not against an international day against terrorism, nor a European day against terrorism.
I therefore reaffirm everything I have said and I do not withdraw a single word. &#160;&#160; Mr Ortuondo Larrea, I am sorry but cannot allow any further responses.
I thank everyone for their contributions to the debate: the Taoiseach, President Prodi and all our colleagues.
We now have, unexpectedly, a unique opportunity of involving all Europeans in this process.
We must give the voters clarity before they cast their votes between 10 and 13&#160;May.
We also wanted definite decisions from the Council about giving the European economy a shot in the arm by stimulating innovation, making the labour market more flexible and abolishing unnecessary rules.
The delegation is in Strasbourg for a number of meetings with our delegation to the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee.
I offer them our greetings and appreciation for being here. &#160;&#160; – Since Parliament is today being visited by a high-level delegation from the Russian Federation Duma, I should like – and not just on my own behalf, I believe – to express our indignation and outrage at the Russian Government’s policy in Chechnya. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I ask for a moment of your attention for a point of order.
I am personally affected by this, as are also many other Members from my country.
I make this request for myself personally, Mr President, but also on behalf of all 34 other German Social Democrat MEPs, and I am aware that Members of the other groups – the Greens, the PDS and the CDU/CSU – will also certainly have something to say about this.
At the same time, Mr President, I request that the results of the examination of the objections should be made available before the end of the period of session of this Parliament – that is, by May – to the House and therefore the public.
I ask this for myself and for all the other Members concerned. &#160;&#160; – Mr Schulz, this is a subject on which I believe the House has given its appraisal.
Between 50 and 60 German MEPs have been maliciously accused of having wrongly drawn their daily allowance, allegations that I emphatically reject!
Accordingly, we cannot accept being defamed in this way.
A Member of this House is exploiting his parliamentary rights in order to spy on colleagues in the most unworthy and disgusting way.
For this reason also, Mr President, I demand that these events be investigated immediately and that – as I have said – the public and we ourselves should be informed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, for three weeks, this House has been haunted by the anonymous allegation that Members have been forging signatures in the attendance lists.
Since yesterday evening, the ‘rumour mill’ in this House has been saying that the administration has completed its investigations with the assistance of graphologists and concluded that there are no forgeries.
What I expect of the President of this House – not you yourself, but rather the President in his capacity as such – is that the results of these investigations should be publicly made known before today is out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to endorse the comments made by the previous speakers.
We wrote a joint open letter to a specific newspaper in Germany and set out our view of the allegations.
As the chairman of the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I have been holding frequent discussions – in the Council, in the Commission and in the embassies, with representatives of other countries, some of which are candidates for accession.
We are prepared to adopt this procedure because legislation is becoming more and more complex, as will also be apparent in the area of telecommunications, but we cannot delegate sovereignty of definition and the political determination of legislation to experts or to the executive.
Having received these guarantees from the Commission and the Council we will now proceed to vote on my report, which permits the expansion, but which at the same time makes it clear that the Parliament remains the legislator in the codecision process.
The contents of the letter are as follows: 'Concerning the proposal for a directive to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure, presented by the Commission on 5 November 2003, I would like to clarify a few points which have been raised during the contacts between the Council and the European Parliament.
When in March 2001 the Stockholm European Council took the decision to apply the Lamfalussy approach in the securities sector, the following passage was included in the Presidency Conclusions: ‘The European Council notes that, within the framework of the comitology decision of 28 June 1999, the Commission has committed itself, in order to find a balanced solution for those cases of implementing measures in the field of securities markets acknowledged in the light of the discussions to be particularly sensitive, to avoid going against predominant views which might emerge within the Council as to the appropriateness of such measures.
Over the last few years we have moved to a whole new approach on the European regulation of securities designed to ensure that Europe can react quickly and effectively to market developments and opportunities.
In doing so, we were mindful of the reservations of Parliament and, in particular, of your concerns on ensuring institutional balance with the Council.
I must, therefore, congratulate you for the very cooperative way in which your Members and the Council, and in particular the Irish presidency, have worked with us to reach a solution.
The implementation of the financial services action plan by the date set in the Councils' conclusions, that is, 2005 for the entire action plan, is crucial if this objective is to be achieved.
The Commission is very pleased with the close cooperation among the Community institutions and expresses its confidence in the continuation of this cooperation for the implementation of the Commission's proposals in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts chaired by Baron Lamfalussy.
The Commission notes that the second intermediate report of the interinstitutional securities markets monitoring group, the follow-up committee, declared that the Lamfalussy process proves to be a viable instrument for improving the efficiency and speed of legislation on, and regulation of, financial markets within the European Union.
In a general way, the Commission, in its White Paper on governance, declared that its executive responsibilities must be more clearly established and that the Council and Parliament should have an equal share in the control of the manner in which the Commission fulfils its executive task.
The Commission emphasises its commitment to placing Parliament and the Council on an equal footing in the control of the competences delegated by joint decision.
It states in this respect that, since the statement of President Romano Prodi during the plenary session of 5&#160;February 2002, it has made concrete proposals to revise Article 202 and, in anticipation of the possible adoption of the new constitutional treaty, to modify the ‘comitology’ decision of 1999, thus demonstrating its objective, that of reaching a well-balanced solution.
In the specific context of an extension of this approach to the area of banks, insurance companies, and professional pensions, as well as OPCVMs (mutual fund schemes), the Commission is in a position to reiterate the following.
The Commission may be able to accept future amendments adopted by Parliament to this end.
It could make sure that Parliament is granted a period of three months from the first transmission of the drafts of the enforcement measures to allow it to examine them and give an opinion on them.
However, in the case of a duly justified emergency, this period may be shortened.
The Commission can ensure complete transparency in relation to Parliament during the entire procedure of adopting the enforcement measures, and also guarantee wide public consultation prior to working out the drafts of the enforcement measures.
It recalls its political will to see to it that Parliament benefits from identical treatment.
The Commission reaffirms its commitment to ensure effective cooperation between institutions, to keep the strictest account of the position of Parliament and the resolutions that it could adopt respecting enforcement measures that would exceed the jurisdiction provided in the basic act and its objective, in these cases, to reach a well-balanced solution. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I refer to Article 69(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
Amendment No 3 is the only obstacle to approval by the Commission and – I should note – by the Council. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his explanation.
Firstly and fundamentally, the main point of my report is to emphasise that the European States cannot just extend the repressive aspect of the asylum and immigration policy, while, at the same time, neglecting whole sections of it regarding legal immigration and the integration of nationals from developing countries who have legally settled in our countries.
Furthermore, it seems to me truly deplorable that the only elements constituting a guarantee for the preservation of the rights of the expelled persons are, in this resolution, placed in a non-binding appendix, which is particularly revealing of the Council’s intention to build a Europe that is nothing but a fortress.
Finally, on its form, the Council may not, as it has done, disregard Parliament's opinion on a subject that touches on so many fundamental liberties.
Parliament's consultative role, which is already only a formality in this area, would become totally superfluous for proposals of this sort, which proves – if there were still need to do so – the need for reform of our institutions, whose victims are, in the first place, the citizens whom we represent.
The main aim of this process is to speed up the implementation of the financial services action plan, in order to create a single market, as an integrated capitals market, by 2005.
We cannot, therefore, complain or call this process a simple comitology procedure.
I share the rapporteur’s opinion on the fundamental role that these agreements could play for a subsequent global interregional agreement leading to the creation of a Euro-Latin American partnership, including a free-trade area, by 2010 at the latest, as the European Parliament requested in its resolution of 15 November 2001.
The main aims of the new agreement are to strengthen relations between the EU and Central America by developing political dialogue and reinforcing cooperation, and to create the conditions under which, building on the outcome of the Doha Work Programme, a feasible and mutually beneficial association agreement, including a free trade agreement, could be negotiated between the parties.
Unless this association is established, the interests of the countries in that region will become polarised, firstly on creating a US-Central America Free Trade Area and then on setting up what is being called the Free Trade Area of the Americas.
We should, therefore, promote relations with those countries that are mutually beneficial, both to the countries and Member States involved and to the EU as a whole and also to the balance of intercontinental socio-economic and geo-strategic relations.
This must be a geo-strategic priority for Europe.
From this point of view, I welcome the new agreement on political dialogue and cooperation that has been proposed, which is intended to strengthen relations between the Union and the Andean Community by extending political dialogue and enhancing cooperation and by establishing conditions that will enable us to negotiate a ‘viable and mutually advantageous’ association agreement, which would include signing a free trade agreement.
I am particularly concerned to note the worsening political and social situation in Venezuela, and believe that concluding this agreement could give the European Union greater power to act in order to promote democracy and social stability in that country.
The forthcoming Guadalajara Summit could be a good opportunity to promote this relationship, setting a realistic timetable for establishing a genuine association between the European Union and Latin America.
The Guarantee Fund covers guaranteed loans granted to third countries and the guarantees for these loans.
With ten countries soon to join the EU, in 2004, the Fund will be affected by the fact that various countries have benefited from European Investment Bank (EIB) loans, guaranteed by the EU budget, which means that these will be covered by the target amount from the moment they join the Union.
This proposal for an amendment establishes rules to address all of these situations and to ensure an ordered transfer of these responsibilities from the Fund to the budget.
The aim of this proposal is to remove the new Member States from the coverage of the fund, provided that they do join the European Union, and to establish a uniform framework for future rounds of enlargement.
This guarantee fund covers guaranteed loans to third countries and guarantees for these loans.
The guarantee fund mechanism was originally established in conjunction with the financial perspective for the 1993-1999 period as a way of protecting the EU budget from the potential risk associated with the increasing number of external loans, and so the fund only covers risks for loans and guarantees to third countries.
In tandem with this proposal, the Commission submitted a general report on the workings of the guarantee fund, which concludes that the fund continued to meet its main objectives during the 1998-2002 period.
The neighbourhood policy includes Russia as a matter of priority, for which the rapporteur proposes an increase of EUR&#160;500&#160;million in the provisional share-out, and the countries of the Mediterranean basin.
These loans would clearly serve a policy of influence, self-interest and regional interference on the part of the European Union.
Bearing these projections in mind, the Commission has proposed a new geographical distribution of the volume planned for the mandate, maintaining the current limit of EUR&#160;19.46&#160;million.
This is why in this world, there is a real need to ensure that this aid is not misused and why the concept of ‘good governance’ was introduced by the World Bank in 1991, with a definition of its main aspects.
The real world is far from idyllic, however.
There are opposing interests in conflict with one another, and no amount of ‘good governance’ can conceal the scant importance attached to cooperation in the entire range of Community policies, the absence of any concept of solidarity or respect for what is ‘different’, and the constant presence of conditionality, which imposes economic and social models.
Promoting genuinely democratic governance, at local, regional and national level is an unequivocally important factor, which can never be overemphasised and without which we will not see the desired harmonisation of public administrations.
Without prejudice to the greater or lesser ability of individual States, I would lastly endorse the idea that refusals to provide assistance must be limited to cases in which governments ignore or are responsible for ongoing breaches of the basic universal rights of men, women and children.
When environmental damage occurs, the first question always is: who is going to pay?
In an ideal world I would expect that citizens would be protected from any risk of environmental damage – and thankfully we are making progress in terms of some real preventative measures.
But, unfortunately, far too much environmental damage still occurs and we must have tough measures to make sure those who cause such damage really do pay the cost.
This is a process that has been marked by pressure from big business – see, for example, the opinions of UNICE, the European employers’ federation – in order to avoid liability for direct damage to the environment, with the governments of some EU countries having defended these interests in the negotiations on this directive.
Despite the fact that the agreement fails to include some of the proposals tabled by the European Parliament, by my parliamentary group in particular – and without going into detail on the fundamental issues it raises, on the concepts that it adopts, on its proper implementation and on all its consequences, in particular for small- and medium-sized enterprises this is a compromise that could help us better to combat damage to the environment, paying particular attention to damage caused by big business.
As I have pointed out, policies on protecting the environment and natural resources are crucial to everyone’s future.
I welcome the agreement reached in Conciliation on a financial guarantee (the compromise reached with the Council lays down that, six years after the Directive’s entry into force, the Commission will present a report on the situation concerning the mandatory financial security instruments).
I also welcome the gradual approach and the exclusion of low-risk activities.
In the planned future revision, the European Commission must pay particular attention to the differences between levels of liability in the various Member States without overlooking the need closely to observe the principles of subsidiarity and of proportionality as regards the action of the Member States.
This common position improves on the legal framework for environmental protection.
The case of BSE is a good example, in which the use of animal meal led to one of the most serious food crises ever seen in the European Union.
I believe that the principle of primary responsibility for compliance with food legislation and food safety lies with the animal feed businesses.
Nevertheless, how we ensure the financial liability of operators whose activities cause economic damage to the animal feed sector is a key issue, bearing in mind that these operators are frequently supported by public funds.
This is an attempt better to preserve consumer health and to facilitate the free movement of goods, by establishing a legal framework for technological development, issues currently governed by a directive that dates back to 1989 and which is now under review.
Taken together with the specific traceability measures proposed, these food safety measures will contribute to a real improvement in the quality of food products, to greater confidence on the part of European consumers and, of course, to higher food safety standards.
Furthermore, nothing makes it possible to verify that the ‘direct budgetary support’ is indeed going toward social budgets or public utilities and not, for example, toward the purchase of arms and military and police equipment to confront the poor.
I share the rapporteur’s view that trade and development policies must be geared towards combating poverty, to promoting employment and social justice, to creating wealth, to ensuring a fair distribution of income and to general economic, social and cultural development.
It is, however, crucial that, in this context of combating the social causes of the insecurity currently facing that country, we do not overlook measures for effectively halting the spiral of violence, which has resulted in countless innocent victims, including many citizens of Portuguese nationality or extraction.
I believe that allocating EUR&#160;15&#160;million of EU funds for restructuring the wines and spirits sector must take account of the breach of industrial property rights arising from the illegal use of traditional European wine names, such as those associated with Port wine, by South African producers.
Signing the Århus Convention requires measures to be adopted that are legally binding on the European Community’s institutions and bodies, and this regulation does this specifically as regards the three pillars of the Convention: access to information, public participation in the decision-making process and access to justice in environmental matters.
The European Parliament report contains some aspects that I welcome, in particular expanding the definition of ‘qualified entity’ (specifically to cover local authorities), the possibility of involving private organisations, as it states, ‘to respond to the increasing privatisation of traditionally public functions’, or the guarantees for the participation of bodies that lack the financial ability to bear the costs.
The Directive now being proposed establishes minimum conditions for access to civil and criminal proceedings in environmental matters and explicitly defines the criteria capable of ensuring a better transposition of environmental law with the least possible impact.
As I said, specifically in my explanation of vote on the Korhola report, there must be effective public control in an area that is of concern to us all – a genuine ‘Citizen’s Control’ to protect our environmental heritage.
Nevertheless, I abstained in the final vote, because the report does not make clear its position on the Convention, which has already been signed by the Member States and this led me to harbour some reservations. &#160;&#160; I am very pleased with this European Commission proposal.
Up until now, there has in fact been no specific legislation applicable to the extractive industries.
The existing directives were used, in particular the framework directive on waste and the landfill directive.
It was therefore high time that these activities were regulated and the specific needs of the sector met.
It is also important to look to the future and encourage research into more sustainable production that produces less waste.
The Stockholm Declaration on the Human Environment, of 16 June 1972, stated that everyone has the right to live ‘in an environment of a quality that permits a life of dignity and well-being’ (...).
The Commission therefore suggests creating two bodies: a Supervisory Authority and a Safety Centre.
I also share the rapporteur’s concern to strike a balance between the independence of the Supervisory Authority and the transparency of its appointment procedures.
I agree, in particular, with the statement that an annual report from its director to the European Parliament would not in itself constitute a sufficient guarantee of this transparency.
This framework decision is aimed at replacing simple cooperation in criminal matters, by implementing the principle of mutual recognition.
It must consequently allow for more rapid and effective cooperation and, at the same time, render the European arrest warrant more effective.
Measures such as the European arrest warrant and the European Evidence Warrant will only be effective, however, when they are implemented by all Member States.
I hope that this time, finally, the measures set out following 11&#160;September 2001 are transposed and implemented.
Since the Tampere Summit, and following the September 11 and March 11 atrocities in the USA and Madrid, there is an understandable wish to take action against alleged criminals and terrorists.
However, all these initiatives must be predicated on the principle of protection of civil rights and fundamental freedoms.
Parliament does not have legislative powers in the area of criminal law, which is best decided at national level.
This would jeopardise their citizens’ rights, guarantees and freedoms.
As has been pointed out, the process is moving ahead without any safeguards being provided to protect the rights of the citizens of each State because, if the prospect of cooperation between States is jeopardised, the guarantees that are safeguarded at this level are also in danger.
The European Evidence Warrant is, in other words, a judicial order issued in one Member State, for the specific purpose of obtaining documents and data for use in criminal proceedings, which may be executed within other Member States, without its having to be converted into a judicial order in the Member State concerned.
This report is concerned with the European Evidence Warrant, and, given that this document is not the appropriate place to address the issue of procedural safeguards, I have no choice but to vote against. &#160;&#160; The radical Members of the Lista Bonino believe that the proposal for a Council framework decision on the European Evidence Warrant for obtaining objects, documents and data for use in proceedings in criminal matters is premature.
As with the European Arrest Warrant, we simply believe that we cannot continue to integrate criminal law and apply the principle of mutual recognition of measures and decisions in criminal matters between the Member States without simultaneously stepping up safeguards and rights of defence in Europe.
Given this situation, the decision that we would have pushed for would have been to reject the proposal in question or to make its entry into force conditional on the approval of the framework decision on safeguards, in order to ensure full respect for procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings, which are key to effectively protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. &#160;&#160; Obviously, we voted against this Italian Government initiative for several European countries to organise joint charter flights to return ‘illegal nationals’ to their countries of origin, not only because its brutality really does give the European Union a ‘fortress Europe’ image, but also and in particular because we reject the very idea of a fortress Europe surrounded by barbed wire and using military force to expel undesirable migrants.
We want a Europe where there are no obstacles to movement or residence within and which is also open and welcoming to the world outside.
Among other things, this means granting official papers to those who are denied them wherever in the European Union they may be. &#160;&#160; The Italian Government’s initiative seeks to organise European charter flights for the ‘mass’ expulsion of third-country nationals.
The European Council approved it even before receiving Parliament’s opinion.
The Commission has announced EUR 30 million: this is an unacceptable way to proceed.
The discriminatory, humiliating and degrading nature of this method of removal is a betrayal of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
For that to be the case, we must abandon ‘fortress Europe’ as a matter of urgency and make sufficient money available for genuine cooperation and mutually advantageous development. &#160;&#160; We rejected the Italian Republic’s initiative on ‘European charters’, which are a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and referred to discreetly as ‘joint flights’.
We are outraged by the determination that the European Union in general and some of its Member States, such as France, Germany and Italy, are showing in seeking an arrangement for rationalising the removal of third-country nationals by organising joint flights at any price.
We find the idea of providing EUR 30 million to pay for this type of operation, as the Commission and Council propose, scandalous.
This fortress Europe policy is nothing but shameful.
The Agency, created in 1975, provides excellent services for the European Commission, the European Union Member States and the social partners, as well as for the associated countries of Norway and Iceland.
The tripartite composition of its Board is reflected in the participation of government representatives, employers’ organisations and employees’ organisations, with the Commission as the fourth participant on the Board, which gives its opinions greater legitimacy and enables it to make better-informed and more effective decisions on the ground.
The proposed amendments to the basic Regulation of Cedefop are intended to increase its ability to respond, in view of the impending enlargement, and to provide an institutional framework that is more efficient, more flexible and more effective.
The fight against terrorism and the protection of privacy are not opposed to each other.
A far-reaching, effective fight against terrorism requires respect for fundamental rights.
The United States’ requirements have put airlines in an impossible situation, as the requirements infringe EU privacy protection, or obstruct air transport.
The Commission has tried in an exemplary way to find a solution.
The data-protection commissioners in the Member States and the EU, the Article 29 Committee, point out the worrying lack of data protection.
A prompt changeover from the ‘pull’ to the ‘push’ system is necessary in order to remedy the lack of data protection.
We are aware of the fact that considerable negotiations have been underway between the European Commission and the US authorities regarding passenger information.
We are satisfied that the agreement which has been reached provides the right balance between privacy and the means of protecting our lives and liberties.
Firstly, it can only confuse our partners by making them doubt our determination to combat terrorism, when only last Friday the European Council adopted a seemingly very resolute declaration to do precisely that.
Indeed, the resolution deems wrong the Commission’s decision, which considered ‘adequate’ the US system that regulates the issue of privacy associated with handling passenger data collected in European territory.
It also claims that the Commission exceeded its powers and calls on it to withdraw its decision.
Furthermore, the resolution states that Parliament could decide to ask the Court of Justice for an opinion on the legality of the draft international agreement with the United States.
While I fully respect the need for the highest possible level of vigilance against terrorism, the terrorists will have won if we sacrifice civil liberties and human rights under the pretext of ensuring security.
The Commission must modify its draft agreement text to ensure that European citizens' data protection rights are protected.
Under the pretext of the ‘war on terror’, personal data are to be transmitted to the USA, covering 34 areas – including telephone numbers, credit card details, political opinions, family background, religious convictions and state of health – without any safeguards or effective monitoring.
We consequently agree with the overall thrust of this resolution, especially as it calls on the Commission to block the current system of transmitting data to the USA and to withdraw its proposal for a decision. &#160;&#160; .– Τhe resolution recognises, as the Communist Party of Greece has denounced, that the European Union, which has proclaimed itself the guardian of fundamental rights, is allowing privacy to be blatantly violated by passing on sensitive personal data from its airlines to the USA.
In its conclusions, however, the resolution, instead of proposing a ban on any transmission of personal data, considers that there is a legislative gap and proposes that an agreement be concluded with the USA simply with less data, a shorter storage period and the right of persons whose data is on file to take action to correct information in their files.
For the immediate future, it calls for passengers' consent to the transmission of 39 items of data.
The work in combating terrorism must be carried out globally and be preventive, but the fight must always be weighed up against respect for the privacy of individuals.
Today, the European Parliament has been voting on an agreement between the EU and the United States relating to the surrendering of data selected on no clear basis from commercial passenger lists, for forwarding to the US Bureau of Customs and Border Protection.
Therefore, we propose instead that a real international agreement between the EU and the United States be drawn up that clearly stipulates purpose, data, guarantees and responsibilities.
The agreement in its current form threatens to eliminate the rule of law.
If it is to be effective, international cooperation in combating terrorism must extend to personal data, particularly in the case of air transport.
The Commission should therefore withdraw its draft and present a new legislative proposal that pays attention to the above points.
Only legislation of this nature can reconcile the fight against terrorism with respect for privacy and fundamental rights.
We have voted in favour of items 1 and 10 (adopted by 226 votes to 203 and 233 votes to 207, respectively) in the resolution, and in favour of the resolution as a whole (adopted by 229 votes to 202, with 19 abstentions). &#160;&#160; In our opinion, the boundaries in matters of public health should as far as possible be drawn at national or local level where individuals themselves cannot make decisions.
We in the Moderate Party voted against the above report, as it is our opinion that matters concerning the local environment – in this case concerning the indoor environment and passive smoking, for example – should not be dealt with at EU level.
The report also places emphasis on the need to apply the precautionary principle, when the science is not conclusive but when there is a potentially serious or irreversible threat to health or the environment, especially in the context of the debate on genetically modified organisms (GMO). &#160;&#160; .
The risks are greater among children than adults.
Between 2004 and 2010, SCALE will focus on the four main problems of public health – childhood respiratory diseases, asthma, allergies; neurodevelopment disorders; childhood cancer; and endocrine disrupting effects – and on its three ultimate objectives, namely to reduce the disease burden caused by environmental factors, to identify and prevent new health threats caused by environmental factors and to strengthen EU capacity for policy-making in this area.
This will create synergies and will facilitate the sharing of data and working practices, in order to achieve a better understanding ... &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; Before we return to the scheduled business of the House I should like to take this opportunity to respond, on the record, to the invitation made earlier today in my absence while I was at the press conference with the Irish presidency and President Prodi to comment, on behalf of this House, on a number of issues that have a prominent media focus in some Member States at this time.
As President of this House I have a double duty: I, and we, have a duty to our electorate and the public to be accountable; and I have a duty to this House to be fair.
Let me repeat here today that the most substantial exercise in reforming this House – the attempt to provide ourselves with a statute which took so many years and which secured a majority in this House – failed because of governments, not because of our will.
That anonymous allegation, like so many other allegations of course, first saw the light of day in the media.
As President of this House I refuse to allow our work to be derailed by malicious or unsubstantiated rumour or prejudice from whatever source within or without.
I should like to point out that we demand more in this House in that regard than many parliaments who are states of this Union and who have parliamentary democracy at their core.
I want you in this House to know – and the public to know through this House – that we will treat every case without fear or favour.
The Commission will express its opinion on this application by the end of April.
The European Parliament, via my report, prepared a proposal for a recommendation to the Council on the application by Croatia for accession in accordance with Rule 49, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which was endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
This report required particular attention in order to be balanced and adequately substantiated, so that the initiative of the European Parliament for a recommendation to the Council would be duly considered by it and would represent the views and demands of all sides in an exemplary manner.
In brief, the main points of this report, to which Croatia must give due attention, are the following: first, the International Criminal Court for the Former Yugoslavia.
Note is taken of the progress made towards cooperation with this international court, as well as of the remaining matters outstanding, especially now that General&#160;Gotovina has been handed over to the Court.
Secondly, the return of refugees and displaced persons.
Thirdly, good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation.
Note is made of the reforms and adjustments to the judicial system in accordance with that which prevails in the European Union, but exemplary application and incontestable social acceptance are expected in the interpretation of the laws, as well as in raising the authority of judges.
Similarly, a modern administrative infrastructure is one for the correct management of Community resources, while particular attention is expected in combating any cases of corruption and in quickly serving citizens.
Fifthly, the tripartite dialogue between Croatia, Italy and Slovenia must continue in the good spirit which surrounds it today so that all the differences and outstanding issues can be settled.
Freedom of expression and the independence of the mass media are the basic precondition to the operation of democracy and no interference in the freedom of expression in the form of state intervention is justified.
The progress made by Croatia with the operation of the free market is recognised and note is made of the achievements of Croatia, both in the year on year increase in gross national product over recent years and in the reduction in the level of inflation, which is close to the European Union average.
The Opinion on Croatia’s application is based on more than 10&#160;000 pages of information provided by the Croatian Government.
We are using exactly the same criteria to evaluate this application as we did with all previous applicants.
As in all other cases, political criteria will play a key role in this context, and Croatia must meet them before negotiations can start.
The European Union is a community based on a set of shared values.
A country must show that it adheres to them before it can start membership negotiations.
Therefore, the assessment in the Commission’s Opinion will focus on whether Croatia respects these values of democracy, respect for the rule of law, human rights and the rights of minorities, which make up the political criteria for EU membership.
The European Commission fully acknowledges the progress made by Croatia in the last few years.
The political situation is stable, and democratic achievements have been consolidated.
The economic situation is improving; growth prospects are good and, more generally, the economic outlook remains positive.
Croatia has already started to work intensively in order to align its legislation with European law.
At the same time, a number of important questions remain to be carefully assessed and are currently very closely monitored by the Commission: questions such as cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, refugee returns, respect for minority rights, judicial reform and regional cooperation.
Croatia’s prospects for membership are clear, as they are for all the countries of south-eastern Europe.
I can tell the Commissioner that it has good relations with its neighbours and regional cooperation is working.
The modernisation of its economy is under way and the economic data give cause for optimism.
The new government’s objectives include the return of refugees and/or the return of property.
This year has already seen these ambitious objectives embodied in an agreement between the government and the Serb minority.
It would be nice if the European Union could at last prevail upon the Republika Srpska in Bosnia-Herzegovina to take back Croatian refugees from Croatia.
The lack of employment opportunities, especially in the parts of Croatia where the Serbs used to live, is a major obstacle to their return and I hope that the CARDS programme will be able to assist here, too.
Europe should not judge Croatia’s cooperation with the International Court only by the case of Ante Gotovina, who is a member of the French foreign legion, is said to have a French passport, and may be lying in the sun in Cannes or Corsica, or may well be anywhere.
To hold Croatia hostage to the Gotovina case is unjust and fails to do justice to the progress it has undeniably made.
The Baltas report also mentions the problems concerning the border between Croatia and Slovenia.
The Commission’s treatment and assessment of Croatia’s progress will send a signal to the entire region.
Both the country from which I come and this group to which I belong are very well disposed towards Croatia, but that does not mean that we turn a blind eye, or even two blind eyes, when it comes to assessing whether it is ready for Europe.
Although Croatia has basically good relations with its neighbours, I believe there are still a few problems to be resolved with Slovenia.
I sometimes feel that many countries that have themselves taken longer to come to terms with their own past and their own crimes and to face up to them are making greater demands on Croatia.
Croatia needs to know that this is a crucial issue, however, and it must therefore show every willingness to cooperate.
Regarding the return of refugees, this has always been a very important point for us in talks with Croatian representatives and here in the European Parliament.
I think Croatia needs to intensify its efforts to bring back all refugees, and this of course includes exchanges with neighbouring countries.
Also with this in mind, I ask the Commission to be very positive in its approach to Croatia. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of Croatia’s accession to the European Union.
The ELDR Group supports Croatia in its efforts to prepare for accession to the EU and to succeed in the accession negotiations.
Our group is asking for a separate vote on paragraph 1(q), which urges Member States to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Croatia.
Some Member States have postponed ratification precisely because they have been dissatisfied with Croatia’s levels of cooperation with the Hague Court.
When Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey and the five countries in the western Balkan region join the Union, the number of Member States will rise to 33.
Enlargement works on the principle that all European countries that fulfil the conditions for accession can join the Union.
The European Parliament must also get more involved in these than it has up till now.
Internal differentiation and the Wider Europe Policy will gradually allow us to create a Europe of concentric circles.
It names quite categorically the main areas of persistent concern from the point of view of the EU, which are good neighbourliness, the refugee issue and cooperation with the International Yugoslavia Tribunal.
No less than 82% of the interviewees are opposed to Croatia’s eventual accession to the European Union.
It is therefore up to the European institutions to offer Croatia a close transatlantic relationship. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like first of all to express my pleasure that things have now got moving in connection with Croatia’s application for membership of the European Union and that there are definite prospects for the opening of negotiations.
I have followed developments in Croatia since 1995, first as a delegation chairman and then as chairman of the EU-Slovenia Joint Parliamentary Committee, and have found that steadily increasing efforts have been made in the right direction.
It could be considered an example for other countries wishing to join the EU and be held up as exemplary in terms of a new intake and new opening between majority populations and minorities of any kind.
Positive considerations have also prevailed as a result of international arbitration in the border disputes or differences of opinion over the border in the Piran Bay.
I believe that is the right way when both states have legitimate interests and this question need not therefore be a stumbling block any longer.
The situation has calmed down considerably in recent times, which is very important in that region.
It will be easier to achieve reconciliation now that these gestures have been made, even though only a few years have passed since their very bitter, hard-fought war.
We should recall that inflation between 2000 and 2002 fell from 7.4% to 2.3%, and we know what that means.
Nevertheless, a scale published by the , measuring the results achieved by the candidate countries joining this year and in coming years, shows that the first candidate countries joining the European Union in May get an overall score of 80%, whereas Croatia is only at 50%.
The debate is closed.
Since the Charter of Fundamental Rights was adopted, it has been the European Parliament’s frame of reference when drawing up its annual report on fundamental rights, a report which is an essential part of our parliamentary life.
For 2003, however, we have taken a slightly different approach, looking at only a few articles of the Charter and comparing them with what we find in reality and practice.
The first question we might ask is why is the European Parliament interested in fundamental rights?
Public freedoms and fundamental rights are enshrined in our constitutions and in our national and European laws.
The draft European Constitution even includes the Charter of Fundamental Rights in its preamble.
The European Parliament’s legitimacy in matters relating to fundamental rights has been strengthened by Article 7.
It may, on the basis of a reasoned proposal, formally notify the Council where there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a Member State of principles mentioned in Article 6.
In this respect, this report should strengthen the European Parliament’s capacity to carry out its role in monitoring fundamental rights within the EU.
Target groups which we have identified include trade unions, support and human rights groups, migrants and refugees, victims of trafficking in human beings, Roma and gypsies, journalists, women, children and people with impaired mobility.
Unfortunately, we saw some examples of this in the United Kingdom at the time of the Iraq war and in France during the heat wave.
The freedom of the press and unfortunately often our rights, too, are threatened by this very concentration of the media and the pressure that some journalists find themselves under when providing their information, because of their political or ideological affiliation.
Europe’s humanist tradition of asylum rights is being replaced by a closed-border security policy.
All rights of this nature are linked to citizenship and we are well aware that European citizenship cannot be built without these rights in today’s Europe.
I am therefore asking you to be particularly vigilant to ensure that our rights, which are increasingly threatened, remain the only things that govern our policies.
In recent weeks we have all been horrified by the tragic events in Madrid, and our deepest sympathies go to the victims, their families and all the people of Spain.
As the Taoisech has already reported, a declaration on terrorism was adopted by the European Council and sets out a package of measures designed to enhance the capacity of the European Union to meet the threat of terrorism.
The Declaration commits us to combating terrorism in accordance with the fundamental principles on which the Union is founded.
The European Council also agreed that negotiations on the new Constitution should be resumed.
The Tampere European Council in 1999 agreed to work towards the creation of a common European Union asylum system on the basis of the full and inclusive application of the Geneva Convention.
We welcome the progress made yesterday in the Justice and Home Affairs Council on the Asylum Qualifications Directive.
The Brussels Declaration on Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, endorsed by the Council last May, provides the basis for a comprehensive five-year programme, which we are actively working towards.
The Council has also agreed measures to give assistance to victims of trafficking through the provision of short-term residence permits to victims who cooperate with the competent authorities.
In this context I recall the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which was adopted last year and which is all part of the human rights defence spectrum.
In relation to the issue of solidarity and social exclusion, Member States have adopted national action plans in the context of the Lisbon Agenda, outlining the actions to be taken to combat social exclusion.
The second such plan was developed in all Member States last year, following a consultation process with social cohesion interest groups.
The European Council agreed that a high level of social cohesion was central to the Lisbon Agenda and that strategies which make a decisive impact on social exclusion and on the eradication of poverty should be reinforced.
The European Council recognised that delivering more and better jobs was the most urgent issue to be addressed.
Achieving higher rates of labour force participation by women and older groups should assist in combating social exclusion and in averting the continuing higher risk of poverty experienced by these groups.
Turning to equality issues which were addressed in the report, the overall effect of the three European Union equality directives is to require Member States to prohibit direct discrimination, indirect discrimination and harassment on the grounds of gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in relation to employment, self-employment or occupational and vocational training.
It is important now that we move ahead to fully implement these vital protections for some of the more vulnerable groups in our society.
The representatives of the Member States meeting within the European Council in Brussels on 13&#160;December 2003 noted the importance of human rights data collection and analysis to assist in policy formation.
For this reason the presidency has decided to convene a Ministerial Conference on Communicating Europe which takes place next week.
The Conference will have two key objectives: to discuss how people might be better informed about the European Union and to assess how we might promote greater engagement by all Europeans in deciding how our Union develops and moves ahead.
Once again, this document is based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, although the rapporteur has chosen a subject-based overview of the Charter, analysing the criminalisation of vulnerable social movements and groups.
In the context of the fight against terrorism, which is, unfortunately, a highly topical subject again, and one that affects us all deeply, we must ensure that fundamental rights and public freedoms are respected.
I can assure you that I cherish this principle and I hope that after the tragic events of 11 March in Madrid we shall be able to overcome some of the difficulties encountered in the past and adopt legal rules for the protection of individuals, including the common procedural guarantees in the matter of criminal procedure that are essential for building mutual trust and applying the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
The measures taken to protect democracy and the rule of law in Europe against all forms of crime and against terrorism must strike a clear balance between the protection of fundamental rights – especially the rights to security and freedom, which are inseparable – on the one hand and social protection measures on the other.
Clearly, the European Union has reached a very important juncture so far as the protection of fundamental rights is concerned.
Your report serves a very important purpose, namely to monitor the observance of fundamental rights by the Member States, which is very important in itself, and also by the European institutions.
The report will also help to promote fundamental rights, and that is essential for the future.
First of all, the Network of Independent Experts on Fundamental Rights has just completed its report for the year 2003.
I would like to emphasise that in response to Parliament’s request made last year, the Network has this year sent us the 25 national reports on which the summary report on the whole Network is based.
Like the Network’s first report, the 2003 report, which expresses the views only of the Network of Independent Experts and not those of the Commission, focuses not only on a number of concerns relating to respect for fundamental rights but also, it must be said, on positive aspects, in particular the good practices developed by some Member States that might be the inspiration for similar solutions in others.
The Network of Experts is anxious to preserve the link between the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is their benchmark, and the more general trends in international human rights law, in particular changes to the European Convention on Human Rights.
To allow the next Parliament to take part in the discussion, the dialogue with civil society will continue until October and will end with a Commission-organised public hearing, on the basis of which we intend submitting a draft regulation on the new agency in spring 2005.
It is also clear that the agency’s creation must not be allowed to upset the existing institutional balance.
Finally, we are not planning to extend the agency’s mandate beyond the territory of the European Union for the time being.
The year 2000 saw the proclamation of the Charter and, following the European Parliament’s recommendation, in 2002 we set up the Network of Experts, which I mentioned earlier.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Nice was an important staging post for the application of Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty.
The new constitutional treaty will make the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding and will allow the Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
In its communication on Article 7, the Commission presented an outline analysis of the conditions for applying that article in the future, with the emphasis on prevention; this will involve, inter alia, cooperation between the institutions and with the Member Sates and dialogue with civil society.
All activities in the field of justice and internal affairs must be rooted in those common values.
With the imminence of our elections, we are all aware that the largest party in Europe is now the apathy party.
They can apply directly to their elected national governments, which make up the Council; to their Commissioner nominated by their elected government; to us, as elected representatives; to the European Ombudsman; and also to the Committee on Petitions of this Parliament.
This is a superb, but ironic, symbol of both this Parliament and the European Union.
As various speakers have already pointed out, although changes have been made, all of these combined efforts still have not led to a coherent human rights policy.
As a result, we know what the Commission thinks about how this should be handled, although we are still waiting for the Council’s opinion on this Commission communication.
Seventhly, this has also been mentioned, we will soon have a Constitution in which the article on values will be reinforced and in which the Charter will be included.
What we really need is a coherent human rights policy covering all goals, institutions, instruments and finances.
Moreover, I should very much like clarity in the question as to what extent the human rights problems in one Member State are actually an issue for the European Union as a whole, so that countries and Member States, and we too, dare to call each other to account much more honestly than we have done to date.
Welcome to our Union: refugees are insulted and excluded and run the risk of losing their lives on the way to a better life in Europe.
Eight hundred thousand women and children are bought and sold as commodities in a loathsome sex trade.
At the same time, however, we know that our EU-15 will bring many shortcomings along with it into the new EU on 1&#160;May&#160;2004.
I should like to conclude by saying that it is regrettable that virtually all Member States are introducing restrictions on the new Member States.
In conclusion, I should like to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party requests the support of the House for two amendments on the European arrest warrant and the French ban on headscarves. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this report on the situation as regards fundamental rights in the European Union contains references to a large number of abuses in different areas.
The report, on which I sincerely congratulate the rapporteur, accuses the Member States of so far being unable to agree on a directive on asylum procedures and the status of refugees.
It is good that the new directive will also give people who are fleeing their homelands because of persecution by non-state agents recognised status in all EU countries.
Europe’s own record on migration and asylum is in my opinion downright shameful, as the report clearly shows.
I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that people who have made their lives here in the European Union still do not have the right to vote, even though the European Parliament has called for it on many occasions.
Should the reply be, however, that we already have Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, then you must understand right now that that is a false answer.
Even though the conditions for implementing it exist, Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union has never been implemented and never will be in an institutional context in which the European Commission, for obvious reasons, will never have the strength to go against one of the Member States.
Therefore, in view of the recurrent infringements denounced in these reports and in the absence of sanctions, it is inevitable that we shall yet again see this picture deteriorate even further next year.
In recent times, the only practical consequence of all the initiatives taken by the Council, or which the Council would like to take, despite their stated purpose of fighting terrorism, has in fact been to repress citizen’s freedoms.
If this is how the European Union protects its citizens from the dangers of terrorism, how can it ever have the strength and the ability to protect its own citizens from the infringements committed against them by the Member States themselves? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by echoing the point made by Minister Roche in his introduction that it is to the European Union's enormous credit that we can produce this critical self-appraisal, this report on human rights within the EU.
I also agreed both with him and with Minister Roche when they spoke of the need to develop a modern interpretation of the Geneva Convention on refugees.
We all need to cooperate if we are to implement its principles.
Nothing could be more important for an EU of 25 countries than to have a common European policy on immigration and, alongside but separate, a common European policy for asylum.
Under the guise of fighting this curse, the legislation piling up in each of our countries is already giving rise to new infringements of human rights.
Have not the Heads of State just flouted these principles by authorising de facto, as from 2005, the keeping of systematic records on all people living in Europe?
Less than two weeks ago, young immigrant gangs caused senseless destruction to various private properties here in Strasbourg, and they have done the same thing every Christmas for years.
Maybe some rapporteur might be able to include in their report on constitutional rights a paragraph on the rights – to physical integrity, safety and ownership – of the Europeans who live on the outskirts of our cities.
It would be more useful than the umpteenth hollow and irrelevant document about how badly we as Europeans tend to treat our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is true that this report on the situation as regards fundamental rights in the European Union is in danger of becoming almost a routine appointment.
So as not to repeat what has already been said on other occasions or by other Members, I shall therefore focus my speech on three topics in particular.
Speaking not only for myself but also on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I strongly reject paragraphs 102 and 103, which yet again call repeatedly for legal recognition of cohabiting couples, even same-sex ones.
It seems that some people will never learn the old lesson that on this issue it is pointless to attempt to go against the European Treaty, which clearly attributes to the Member States the power, the competence and the sovereignty to decide on this sensitive issue themselves.
We therefore strongly reject Amendments Nos 84, 85 and 86, which reiterate this misunderstanding and in the end put Italy in the firing line all by itself, as if all media problems were concentrated in our country.
They start, it is true, with assumptions we can all share, such as the criteria of pluralism, freedom and access to the press for all, but then they reach conclusions so restricted to the individual case of Italy that they end up discrediting all their noble assumptions as well.
They carried out some research in Italy in April 2003, which they later published, in which they arrive at very different conclusions from those that characterise yesterday’s unbelievable report from the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, with its even more unbelievable amendments.
A reform bill is on the point of being passed, a reform that the Italian left never had the courage or even the ability to propose during their seven years in government.
At the recent European Council, discussions and decisions unfortunately focused on the after-effects and failed to address the essence and causes of the new situation created by the war against democracy, as President Pat Cox called terrorism.
In other words, we are being driven with mathematical precision into a sorry situation, in which the protection of personal data will be non-existent and privacy will be permanently under the scrutiny of big brother.
Terrorism is being used as an alibi to increase spending on security and convert modern democracies into autocratic police states in which every citizen is treated as a potential terrorist.
While all this is happening on the terrorist front, another terrible crime being committed on a daily basis against thousands of women and children in the form of a modern slave trade has recently been added to our political agenda.
Fundamental rights and democratic freedoms in the European Union are indeed under serious threat. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this annual report on human rights policy draws attention to the increasing numbers of infringements that take place in the EU, and makes concrete proposals on how this situation might be resolved.
I should also like to highlight the way in which the report condemns all forms of violence against women and calls on Member States to combat and eliminate violence against women and children in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the rapporteur mainly for her continuous commitment to human rights.
Yesterday, a young girl, Ainara Gorostiaga, was released on the orders of the Spanish Judge Baltasar Garzón, after spending two years in prison.
When, however, I read about all these rights couched in long words, I am led to think about a Danish politician who, back home in our windswept country, got elected on a programme designed to give a boost to cycle paths.
In fact, rights are derived from social practice, struggle and political activity.
The reason is that there is another agenda whereby these rights are, to the very greatest degree, concerned with the actual process of integration, and it is this duplicity in the agenda that prompts me to make this observation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the hypocrisy of the talk about fundamental rights in this House can hardly be surpassed, especially when it comes from the Right.
When the Council and governments initiate more and more new surveillance programmes, plunging thousands of migrants into sheer despair with their Fortress Europe policy, leaving them stuck at borders, allowing them to drown at sea, and the few that make it are then interned in the EU only to be removed again as soon as possible, the European Parliament, which claims to be the guardian of fundamental and human rights, actually applauds.
Unfortunately, the reality looks rather different to all those who are deprived of their most elementary civil rights.
The blatant justification of torture in Germany by numerous politicians and representatives of the judiciary and police in 2003 is a specific example of this.
Our Union must be an exemplar in all of those areas, otherwise we are an exercise in hypocrisy.
I mentioned that in the Tampere programme the Council reaffirmed the importance that the Union and the Member States attach to the absolute right to seek asylum, mentioned by several Members.
The Irish presidency will continue to support an initiative by the Commission to combat trafficking in human beings, especially bearing in mind the work of the expert group in this area and the Brussels Declaration.
Quite a number of speakers made reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the draft Constitutional Treaty.
It strikes me that the Charter of Fundamental Rights elements in the draft Constitutional Treaty are one of the great pillars on which that Treaty is based.
The Charter provides an additional safeguard for citizens of the Union in their dealings with the institutions of the Union or those of Member States when they apply Union law.
My personal experience is that common sense and good manners have failed us on more than one occasion.
Several Members made reference to the importance of a free press in the protection of civil liberties.
A free press is fundamental to the protection of civil liberties.
I congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
I feel, however, that for Members of this House, who are soon to go before the electorate in elections that are especially important for the EU’s future, it is worth recalling that the extraordinarygains of the past five years in the area of human rights are something to be proud of and may, indeed, encourage the citizens to take part in the electoral process, given the prospects for establishing a European policy on fundamental rights.
We cannot hide the fact that Member States have differences that are sometimes difficult to surmount, and that sometimes the price we have to pay to get over these differences is an agreement based on the lowest common denominator.
We cannot close our eyes to this, but let us not be defeatist.
Today, I must confess – and it pains me to say this – the day after the Council of Ministers finally adopted a directive defining the concept of refugee, aligning systems of subsidiary protection and recognising that non-State agents can be agents of persecution, in which case refugee status can also be granted; we welcome this directive, which contains excellent proposals in the area of international protection and is a major step forward in defining a European concept of asylum.
My third comment concerns the protection of privacy and fundamental rights in the war on terror.
What we must do is ensure that this technology is used in accordance with the law and the required safeguards as regards privacy and guarantees of fundamental rights.
This is the challenge facing us, and Parliament must, accordingly, be involved in defining the legal rules governing the introduction of biometric data on passports and visas, and of data cross-checking in the area of security.
Lastly, the key frame of reference of the policy of protecting fundamental rights in the EU is the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but is not solely confined to the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The future European Constitution points in this direction. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Extractive Industries Review launched by the World Bank Group in 2001 will guide the Bank’s involvement in the oil, gas and mining sectors.
The consultative process is a significant element of the Group’s overall review of its activities in this area.
The process must be allowed to take its course in view of the significant recommendations in the review.
The importance of protecting and managing the resource base of economic and social development was reaffirmed by Heads of State and Government at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in September 2002.
Raw materials, such as minerals and petroleum, provide the foundations for economic growth and well-being, both in industry and in our everyday lives.
In recognition of the need to balance these demands, actions were agreed in relation to managing the natural resource base in a sustainable and integrated manner.
The World Bank is not alone in recognising the need to address all elements of sustainable development.
In many ways this review parallels work carried out by the European Union in recent years, such as strengthening the governance of mining through, for example, amendment of the Seveso Directive and a proposed new directive on the management of extractive industry waste – an issue that is of concern right across the Union.
Detailed environmental protection measures in the Extractive Industries Review include proposals such as closure planning and guidelines on tailings management in extractive industries.
The European Union guidance note on best available techniques for mining wastes is very advanced and will set out best practice in this area.
Nevertheless, our work in Europe will make a useful contribution to better environmental practice and standards in managing mining waste, as well as the Cyanide Code of Practice developed by the UNEP through multi-stakeholder consultation and participation.
We support the conclusions of the Johannesburg Summit and the Plan of Implementation, including the specific commitments in relation to the mining, minerals, metals and energy sectors.
We also support the promotion of corporate responsibility and accountability, and the exchange of best practices in the context of sustainable development.
Our position on these issues is clear and, I expect, well known to all interests, including the World Bank.
As parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and ratifiers of the Kyoto Protocol, the European Community and its Member States are eager to ensure that the activities of the World Bank are in harmony with the European Union’s objective of stabilising greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere at safe levels.
The promotion of cleaner and less greenhouse-gas-emitting energy sources in developing countries, with a particular focus on the promotion of renewable sources of energy, are in keeping with meeting the objectives of the EU’s long-term climate change objectives.
In conclusion, we look forward to the response of the World Bank to this review.
Extractive industry support within the European Community development programme has virtually ceased.
The specific instrument in the mining sector, Sysmin, was discontinued under the Cotonou Agreement.
Under the Ninth European Development Fund, any programmes in the mining sector have been defined by partner countries themselves, in line with the ownership concept.
Less than six percent of funds have been allocated to mining activities in national indicative programmes.
As Parliament is aware, the European Union launched an 'EU Energy Initiative for poverty eradication and sustainable development' at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in September 2002.
The initiative’s secretariat is housed within the Commission.
This objective will be achieved within the context of activities driven by participating developing countries, through the provision of adequate, affordable, sustainable energy services.
Although the initiative does not have a technology focus, it strives to promote the provision of affordable and sustainable energy services.
This Coalition aims to enhance renewable energy deployment within developing countries.
He gave a large number of examples of difficulties for the local population in various project areas: forced displacements, environmental damage, and so on.
It is very important that the EU Member States, the governments of which make up a large proportion of the Bank’s Board, coordinate their activities in this field and ensure that the Bank bears the recommendations in mind.
I think that the Presidency could play a very important role in this.
Without elevating this report and this study to absolute truths, they are nevertheless a good basis for pushing on and tightening up policy in connection with both poverty issues and sustainable development. &#160;&#160; ‘I do not for a moment doubt that sooner or later the economic war that Shell is waging in the Niger Delta will be exposed and that the crimes that have been committed in this war will be punished.’ Those, Mr President, were the words of Ogoni leader Ken Saro-Wiwa ten years ago.
The present analysis of the extractive industries shows that much remains to be done before the World Bank can operate effectively in this sector.
The struggle of the Ogoni people in Nigeria is symbolic of one of the main conditions for World Bank participation, that is the guaranteeing of the right of the indigenous peoples, without coercion and properly informed, to assent in advance to projects that are funded by the World Bank.
For many developing countries raw materials are their primary source of income, but even if they have liquid or solid gold in their soil, the indigenous peoples of these countries see very little of the proceeds from it.
It was the same Ken Saro-Wiwa who remarked that the fish in the Niger Delta taste of oil.
Paramount must be that decisions on projects are subject to good governance requirements.
Only in this way can these raw material-rich countries develop as a whole.
This can also be done by refusing to fund projects in conflict areas and finally this can be done by strengthening existing natural habitatpolicy and not investing in projects in protected wildlife areas, but investing positively in renewable energy sources. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following the UN report on the situation in the Congo and the US Government report on global warming, a report commissioned by the World Bank itself has now confirmed the fears that the Greens have been expressing for some time.
What has happened is that the World Bank set up a study on the extraction industries, which, after two years of consultation with public bodies, governments and business, has produced a report which is damning with regard to its development policy.
The report highlights the deficiencies and counter-productive effects of the World Bank’s policy in countries rich in natural resources.
In the words of the study itself, the World Bank has attracted too many investors, without taking any real interest in helping the countries to develop their abilities to convert their natural riches into means of combating poverty.
The Yanacocha gold mine in Peru is the prototype toxic tragedy.
In countries still subject to a high degree of corruption, where the legal frameworks are still unreliable and democracy is uncertain, the World Bank unfortunately is doing nothing to encourage sustainable development.
On the contrary, in numerous countries, the extraction industries have been associated with violations of human rights and civil conflicts, as has been seen in Burma.
The consequence of this blind and generous investment: countries with disappointing results outnumber the countries making substantial progress.
The Greens, in line with the study’s recommendations, are advocating a moratorium on the financing of oil projects until 2008, the cessation of financing for coalmines in order to combat greenhouse gases, the encouragement of clean and renewable energy along with energy efficiency.
The European Union has a major role to play here in demanding, through the Member States, that the World Bank should take account of the study’s recommendations.
The World Bank has been on the wrong track for too long and it is time for it to change course so that development policy can at last benefit those most in need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we did not ask for this debate simply in order to tell the World Bank what it should do.
We also need to know the position of the Council, in which 15 Member States – all playing a very important role in World Bank decision-making – are represented.
We want to ask the Council what position it is going to take on this extractive industry report and whether or not it intends to coordinate the position of the Member States in this respect.
We are convinced that we must have parliamentary scrutiny of what the World Bank does, and also that we, as a European Union institution, need to know what our Member States do when they are in the World Bank.
We think that discussion of this issue in the Council is absolutely crucial for two reasons.
Firstly, because the conclusions of the report say very clearly that investing in the oil, mining and gas sectors does not in itself reduce poverty.
Secondly, we are convinced that if the World Bank's objective is to reduce poverty and alleviate the exclusion of indigenous populations and poor people, we cannot continue to support a method of financing a project that is detrimental from this point of view.
It is quite right, therefore, that we should discuss this issue and endeavour to coordinate the approaches of the EU Member States.
Speaking of the World Bank in general terms, it unfortunately appears that, in some respects, it has the worst record when it comes to the management of development projects.
When I was in Niger around a month ago, all the parties in Niger had put their work on the Education For All plan in order; except the World Bank.
We must take its recommendations seriously, therefore.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on international organ trafficking.
As medical science has progressed in the area of organ transplantation there is a growing demand for organs, with a resulting problem in trafficking in human organs.
It also has serious implications for the combating of organised crime, because as in everything else, organised crime has managed to get into this particular area.
A proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues was presented by the Greek presidency in February 2003, in the framework of the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
It also proposes that participation by medical or nursing staff in the transplantation of an organ in the knowledge that it has been acquired by any of these means will be a criminal offence.
The proposition in the framework document will be quite wide.
The proposal has been discussed on a number of occasions by relevant Council bodies.
The Irish presidency will continue to monitor Member States’ views on the usefulness of a measure such as this at the level of the EU with a view to establishing whether progress might be made in respect of such a measure.
There is a need to ensure high standards of quality and safety.
The victims of this type of crime are particularly vulnerable human beings, in particular children.
Trafficking in human organs is an obscene violation of the right to physical integrity and, in the most tragic circumstances, of the right to life, as recognised by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
These alleged situations of trafficking are particularly worrying and the Commission is following them very closely, through the Commission's delegation in the regions concerned and in close dialogue with Member States locally, in particular in the context of the political dialogue with these countries.
In relation to the situation in Mozambique, the Commission has contacted the Office of the Attorney General, who has assured it that investigations are under way.
The Commission also reinforced its concern at a meeting in Brussels with the Ambassador of Mozambique.
Regional and international cooperation are essential to tackle this phenomenon successfully.
Albania, as I mentioned earlier, is one of the countries alleged to be the scene of activities of trafficking in children's organs, whose destination is, allegedly, the European Union.
In order to prevent the entry into the European Union of human organs resulting from illicit trafficking, the measures taken to improve cooperation between Member States' police services and customs administrations and to strengthen external border controls are of great value.
However, specific measures directed at this type of crime seem currently to be inadequate.
It was in this spirit that Greece, during its presidency of the Union, presented an initiative for the adoption by the Council of a framework decision concerning the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues.
The Commission was largely supportive of this initiative, while recognising, however, that more in-depth legal and factual examination and knowledge of the situation in the Member States was necessary.
Under the Commission's AGIS financial programme for police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, it is also possible to support projects in this particularly delicate area of criminality, which has still not been fully examined.
This shortage of organs can encourage illicit trade.
The Commission is fully aware of the consequences resulting from the shortage of organs and, for that reason, it has indicated as a priority action in its work plan for 2004 for the implementation of the programme on Community action in the field of public health 2003-2008, the development of a strategy for the European Union in order to raise awareness and increase availability of organs used for transplantation.
This analysis will be communicated to the European Parliament, as well as to the Member States, as soon as it is concluded.
In conclusion, a number of initiatives have been launched to combat illicit trafficking in human organs and the Commission will continue to support such initiatives as are appropriate in order to combat this unacceptable trade. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in human beings is one of the most sickening manifestations of the growing phenomenon of international crime, and the trafficking of children is more sickening still.
The trafficking of children in order to remove organs is the most gruesome part of this immoral and repulsive business.
There are human beings who need our support and our protection, people who lose organs or even their lives as a result of this practice.
I should like to make three points on the matter.
This brings us to my second point.
I have read that the reluctance on the part of some countries to recognise that this type of criminality goes on in their territory is down to the narrow-minded notion that it only happens in developing countries.
I called for an integrated Community approach and for the definition both of offences in the trafficking of human organs and tissues and their respective penalties to be harmonised.
We have an obligation to help, both on behalf of the humanitarian causes to which we subscribe, and in the interests – which must be common interests – of putting a stop to this unholy trade and of dismantling the existing international networks.
We would therefore like to say to the governments, to the judiciary and to the police forces of the countries concerned that there is nothing to fear from international help to combat these crimes.
In so doing we are not diluting, but strengthening the instruments and resources to combat this common evil. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we are pleased to see that the question that we raised on the trafficking of human beings and children in Mozambique has sparked a broader debate on the illegal trafficking of human organs and tissues, not only in the EU, but on an altogether wider scale.
There is, indeed, nothing more abominable than tampering with the human form – which should be a finished article in itself and whose integrity and dignity must be protected – and turning it into an object in which you can look for an organ to transplant into another person.
I should like to speak about Mozambique.
In Mozambique, mystery surrounds Nampula Province.
Child trafficking has taken place there; fifty children are known to have disappeared, probably abducted and sacrificed, be this for the purposes of removing organs for witchcraft, magic rituals or satanic rituals, of sex slavery, or of removing organs to sell them on some international network.
Mystery surrounds the existence or otherwise in Mozambique of an international child-trafficking network for obtaining organs.
The matter needs to be clarified, and the people of Nampula, and the children of Nampula, and Mozambique as a whole, need to be helped, so that they can live in peace. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the chilling reports arriving from Mozambique, particularly the Nampula area, where the inexplicable disappearance of children hides an obscene trade in human organs, might seem unbelievable because they are so repugnant to any human being.
After such a terrible experience, we must make a commitment today to stop this obscene trade with all the means that the international community has at its disposal.
Questions have already been asked, but they are not enough.
All the prominent people in this world who share the ability to influence the destiny of so many have the ethical responsibility to take practical, urgent steps to guarantee the safety of children and the people who protect them. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the trafficking of human organs is the new piracy of modern times, which is a particularly sordid and brutal form of piracy.
Combating this phenomenon must be firm, far-reaching and unflinching.
There are cases in which the authorities turn a blind eye to the trade in organs, whereby a person can sell, say, their own kidney for a fistful of dollars.
The principle of free organ donation for transplants is one of the fundamental principles of civilisation, and a fundamental requirement of people’s dignity and of our security and freedom.
The EU must also take the lead in combating this modern scourge at international level, since it is one of the most gruesome manifestations of international crime in modern times.
The framework decision proposed by the Greek Presidency must be approved without delay, in order to ensure that all Member States can eradicate this trafficking, as suppliers, as receivers or as a field of operation.
Recent attention has focused on certain regions of Mozambique, in East Africa.
We must respond in kind to the courage and tenacity of religious bodies and human rights activists in bringing attention to dozens of unexplained disappearances of children and young people, some of whom have since been found dead, their bodies mutilated.
It is possible that in Nampula there has been not one but many tragic events, possibly involving the trafficking of human beings and children, or the trafficking of organs for witchcraft or other non-medical uses and the trafficking of human organs to support international networks.
The threat is international and affects every one of us.
Whether it be Israel or South Africa, on the Asian, European or American continents, whether it has its origins in Mozambique or in the poorer regions of Brazil, in Moldova or Albania, in the fragmented Balkans, in the vastness of Africa, in depressed Central Asia or in the poorest outskirts of Asian or Latin American cities, we know where this trafficking is going to attack.
The Commission and the Council must work hard and I should like to see the Council act with the same level of diligence that the Commission has already shown here, whether cases appear in Mozambique or in any other part of the world. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I have been listening to this debate, especially to Minister Roche, and it has been something of a surreal experience.
My report was adopted by 420 votes to nil in the European Parliament.
I referred to the point that was made in an excellent contribution in the documents that there is still a lot of information needed in this area.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to reiterate that the Commission will continue to monitor closely the cases that have been mentioned, relating to Mozambique and Albania, and to remain vigilant, in close cooperation with the embassies of Member States in both of those countries.
Secondly, I must point out that, from a legal point of view, Greece’s initiative during its presidency raises certain questions that require political debate.
Our studies have shown that, in fact, the illegal trafficking of organs has not been criminalised in all Member States.
Thirdly, there is a certain complexity as regards the enforcement of criminal measures, given that, as we know, the beneficiaries of the transplants of illicitly obtained organs are, more often than not, European, although those transplants are carried out in third countries, which raises the question of criminal punishment based on the principle of the national territory in which the criminal act was committed.
Consequently, these questions were raised during the presentation and the first debate of the Greek initiative for a framework decision applicable to the illegal trafficking of organs, and a study was carried out within the scope of the Falcone Programme, in order to identify what exactly were the fundamental questions that required legislative treatment at European level.
As you are aware, and as I have just mentioned, this was not a Commission initiative, and in some ways, the crux of this debate is the lack of continuity of Member States’ initiatives, which enjoy a certain momentum when the country concerned holds the presidency, but which have no guarantee of continuity thereafter.
As well as the fact that the use of fishing quotas was very low and was far from achieving the value expected for fishing opportunities, only four Member States could and can fish within the framework of this Agreement: the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Denmark.
The other Member States were and continue to be excluded from these waters.
It should be pointed out that this exclusion and this non-use of fishing quotas paid for caused and continues to cause a series of distortions such as, for example, the case of certain Member States benefiting from the agreement having tried to re-sell unused quotas, because they are not of interest to the consumer market of that Member State, but they are of interest for consumption in other States.
In addition to this distortion (the attempt to re-sell something already paid for), there has been and there still is fishing of unused quotas by vessels flying the flags of those Member States, but which in reality are not from those Member States or any other Member State, but which are third-country vessels.
The fact is that there is a desire to acquire these unused quotas, or at least to begin fishing, though of an experimental nature, on the part of certain Member States which are not included as beneficiaries of this agreement or which were excluded – such as the Iberian fleets: the Spanish and the Portuguese – at the time of our accession to the European Community, despite the fact that we have been fishing in those waters for centuries.
The Commission recognised all these distortions in its document and proposed a mechanism according to which the Commission could temporarily transfer unused fishing opportunities to another Member State, only during that particular year and without prejudice to the allocation of quotas in future years.
However, in the Committee on Fisheries an amendment was approved, presented by nationals of certain Member States involved, to the effect that the Commission could establish consultation procedures between the Member States, but that it would be the States which had the quotas who could determine or decide on their distribution or allocation to other Member States which are not beneficiaries but which have an interest in fishing in that area.
I believe that, in reality, the central debate in relation to this issue is whether the Commission only plays a facilitating role or whether, since we are talking about a Community fisheries agreement, it must ensure the best possible level of use of fishing opportunities which, as I have said, have been acquired and paid for from Greenland by the Community, within the framework of this Fisheries Agreement.
I believe we are talking essentially not about national issues – because, in the fisheries agreements, in general – and those of us who are here are well aware of this – national issues are always very prevalent and they always cause many tensions – but about the principle of good financial management, the Gordian knot of this issue.
It is a question of defining this principle in relation to principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, and ensuring compliance, by means of the monitoring of performance indicators, which are established by activity and which furthermore are measurable, so that the results achieved can be observed.
On the basis of the mandate given by the Council on 24 February 2003, the evaluation report done by the Commission services and the report of the European Parliament adopted on 2 September 2003, the Commission initialled the modified Fourth Protocol on 18 June 2003 in Athens.
As a response to the lack of transparency, a budgetary support programme has been introduced, and the Greenland Home Rule Government has committed itself to performing a structural reform of its fisheries policies.
If successful, this may be the answer both to the diversification needed in Greenland fisheries and to the new species to be included in the next European Community – Greenland agreement.
This is a crucial new element which not only gives the Commission the means to ensure the sound financial management of Community funds and optimal use of tax-payers' money, but also brings the Greenland Agreement into line with other third-country agreements with financial compensation. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the agreement with Greenland is important in several respects.
There are Community legal bases and principles that are binding.
These include, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, the principle of relative stability which was confirmed only recently as part of the large-scale common fisheries policy reform.
I find it highly questionable and unhelpful to be seeking an amendment by the back door, as I see it, and to give way to sectional interests as seems to be the manifest intention of many here in this House on the Greenland question.
The EU fishing nations that are party to the Greenland agreement have committed themselves to sustainable and responsible fishing.
That cannot be changed.
As we have seen, Germany, where I come from, has been exemplary in its cooperation in the past few years – I am pleased to be able to say that – and has transferred parts of its quotas for stocks that are in good condition to other Member States.
That is the way to have a sustainable fisheries policy.
For the future I am in favour of closer cooperation over quotas; that is something I can concede, but the Member States’ and Commission’s powers must be preserved.
I also fully support an improved procedure for consultation between Member States over the exchange of quotas from agreements with third countries.
I also ask my fellow Members to support that. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the modification of the Fourth Protocol, laying down the conditions for fishing between the EU and Greenland, is a step in the right direction, as its guiding principles are truth, transparency and reciprocity.
I also welcome Commissioner Vitorino’s intervention.
If the Spanish and Portuguese were the first to discover fishing routes across the globe, then they must also have discovered the fisheries in Greenland, from where they have now been banned.
This must not mean that these two countries must be subordinate to the authority of the countries holding the quotas.
This is not some kind of modern-day feudal law invented alongside the quotas that are assigned to one country, which later passes them on or not to the EU Member State that, within the scope of Community policy, wishes to use them.
In development, the money would go to surveillance and scientific analysis etc., and there should also be the possibility of an audit of how the money is spent.
There is a major vacuum here in that European taxpayers' money goes to fund these fisheries agreements without the possibility of looking to see how the money has been spent, particularly when it is in the area of development and surveillance.
I sincerely believe that the Commission’s proposal was good and sufficient, and I believe that it should have been accepted by a majority in the Committee on Fisheries, in which case it would not have been necessary to present amendments to Article 3, since, for the first time, the Commission was responding to a long battle by the PPE-DE Group in this European Parliament and by the Spanish Government for the same criteria to be applied to the Fisheries Agreement with Greenland as to the ‘southern agreements’ and for there not to be fishing opportunities paid for but not used, thereby allowing the Commission directly to re-allocate these unused fishing opportunities to other Member States which request it.
Mr Vitorino, I would ask you to communicate to Commissioner Fischler that he should go ahead with his proposal, because it is reasonable, fair, equitable and in accordance with the principles of good governance, which the Court of Auditors called for so strongly, favouring the mutual interests of Greenland and the European Union, and, above all, it is a Europeanist proposal, since it protects the common European interest, unlike the current Miguélez Ramos report, which is anti-Community, since it prevents the Commission from directly defending the common interest of all the Member States in re-allocating unused quotas and obliges it to give in to the desire of certain States which do not use those quotas to negotiate bilaterally.
I believe that amendment was originally lost in committee but has been re-tabled.
Any measures which threaten this principle, or put it at risk, I cannot support.
On the subject of Greenland, I am sure that many Scots in fishing communities these days would look enviously towards Greenland because it is outwith the CFP.
This report, and its proposal that quotas should be reallocated to different Member States, and reallocated by the Commission, is totally unacceptable.
It is not helpful that in December 2002 the UK Government and the Scottish Labour and Liberal Government supported reform of the CFP giving equal access to waters and resources.
If Commissioner Fischler had been here I would have asked him to comment on how relative stability can live with equal access to waters and resources.
The good thing about this modification to the Fourth Protocol is that at least now we have no paper fish: we are paying for genuine fishing opportunities.
We are relating the money that we pay from the European Union to the actual reality of the fishing opportunities that are there.
Parliament has been calling for this for a long time for fisheries agreements with third countries.
The possibility of transferring or exchanging allocated fishing quotas must continue to be a Member State competence.
However, I will gladly take on board what has been said and try to address as far as possible the arguments put forward in this debate.
First of all on Amendment No 1: the financial compensation of the agreement is one single compensation, which corresponds to access to the waters, as well as compensation for the impact caused by the activity of European Union vessels in third-country waters.
The fact that the third country in the framework of a fisheries sector dialogue accepts to commit a part of the financial compensation to activities in support of a reform of its own fisheries policy, does not constitute an argument for a differentiation in two different financial envelopes.
On Amendment No 2, which, to a certain extent – if I have understood you correctly – is connected with Amendment No 5, considering the fact that the Commission is responsible for the sound financial management of the Community funds, Amendment No 2 cannot be accepted.
Indeed, the budgetary authority must give the Commission the means and the legal basis to ensure the sound financial management of this agreement.
Despite some transfers made in 2003 by the quota-holding Member States, experience shows that these have not been sufficient to ensure the optimum utilisation of the fishing possibilities and thus sound financial management.
With respect to the argument put forward, how can we guarantee that the principle of relative stability and Article 20(5) of the basic regulation are adhered to?
I would like to underline that the temporary transfer of fishing possibilities from one Member State to another by the Commission is contrary to the principle of relative stability, because, in accordance with Article 20(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002 on the allocation of fishing possibilities among Member States, such a transfer will not have an effect on the allocation of fishing possibilities between the Member States in Greenland waters in the future.
Also, I cannot accept the idea that with this mechanism we are creating a precedent.
The transfer clause exists and is implemented in all other third-country agreements with financial compensation, without any problem.
The only agreement that does not have this kind of article is precisely the Greenland agreement.
In an agreement with financial compensation, it is unacceptable that the Commission does not have the means to ensure that Community funds are not wasted.
We are responsible for ensuring the sound financial management of Community funds.
Amendment No 5 shows the willingness of the budgetary authority to provide the Commission with the legal basis to ensure such a ground management without prejudice to relative stability, as I have said before.
Finally, we cannot accept Amendment No 4.
I recall in this respect the established principle regarding the nature of a protocol to a fisheries agreement.
The debate is closed.
This review introduces a range of adjustments, but does not alter the level of financial compensation, which remains at EUR 42&#160;820&#160;000 per year.
We welcome the increase in halibut quotas, which means that national fleets may now catch 800 tonnes of Greenland halibut.
Since the Kingdom of Spain’s initiative to oblige carriers to communicate passenger data was presented, that is since the first document appeared early last year, every month has brought unofficial new versions with the promise of another official one shortly.
Then in the middle of February, the Council suddenly produced a new document as a result of which I then had to prepare a completely new report.
To the point in hand, my group agrees with the starting point of saying that it may make sense to oblige carriers to communicate data on persons entering the EU from third countries to the competent border control authorities in advance.
In other words, will it make controls easier and more effective?
Moreover, this document contains no justification at all, the Council initiative is unreasoned, there is neither a general justification nor a detailed justification for the individual articles.
One very central point for which I have still not been given a satisfactory explanation is the question of whether the data collected really will make for more effective controls in the country of entry.
In fact, in order to be quite clear, the Commission shares the objectives of strengthening controls at external frontiers and combating illegal immigration, which are clearly indicated in the text of the Spanish initiative.
It is a matter of harmonising practices, which are already in place in several Member States, concerning the transmission of APIS type data, which is not to be confused with PNR type data.
The personal information in question is in fact limited to elements entered in all passengers’ travel documents, which they have to present in any case when crossing external frontiers.
Furthermore, the level of data protection offered by the text on which the Parliament is being consulted is sufficiently high and has received the approval of the Article&#160;29 Committee.
However, at yesterday’s Justice and Internal Affairs Council, the draft directive was subject to a political agreement following the insertion of amendments proposed by the United Kingdom aimed at authorising the retention of data beyond the period of 24&#160;hours initially laid down in the initiative and their use for more extensive purposes.
In this statement, the Commission asserts that the directive should be interpreted in the light of the objectives imposed on it, namely the strengthening of controls at the frontiers and combating illegal immigration.
These measures concern the protection of data and the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities in the light in particular of the statement adopted by the European Council on the fight against terrorism.
Apart from the fact that the personal data in question are limited to the information mentioned in passengers’ travel documents, which carriers are already obliged to check at the time of boarding, it should be noted that these data will only be transmitted, according to the provisions of the directive, at the request of the competent national authorities.
In any case, the Commission is willing to enter into dialogue with the carriers on this matter. &#160;&#160; Madam President, at a time when migration flow management and the fight against illegal immigration are becoming ever more complex, it is very difficult for us to accept this Spanish initiative in either substance or form.
The objective is clearly defined; it involves the fight against illegal immigration.
The objective of reducing illegal immigration is a legitimate one, but how can the proposed text be effective?
In some countries, passports are not machine-readable; in other countries, the machines are not yet available: in order to rectify these failings, Member States do not provide for any system of compensation.
In conclusion, then, illegal immigration must of course be combated, but there are, in my view, many other ways.
We therefore, in fact, reject this initiative and we should like the Commission to make us a proposal in the future, a coherent proposal, and one that respects competences and the public’s rights and duties.
We trust that the Commission will be able to do this. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this House should not withhold its support for the report by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which rejects the outgoing Spanish Government's initiative.
After all, we have already adopted two important decisions at 12 noon today.
The fundamental right to decide for oneself what is done with one’s personal data is a valuable asset, one with which we must not deal lightly.
Yet, as all experience has shown – and this must be made very clear – illegal immigration is tackled not through police repression but solely by establishing peaceful conditions worthy of human dignity in other parts of Europe and the world.
The intention to allow airline companies to collect and communicate passenger data is extremely problematical for a variety of reasons.
Private companies would thus be granted sovereign rights which, until now, have been reserved solely for government agencies in the Member States – for example, in the event of imminent danger or other cases which must be specifically justified.
What Europe needs is genuine protection for the basic rights of every individual who resides here. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, it is better to stop half way than to persevere in an error.
This is the feeling I am left with in this matter.
It cannot after all be the intention that duties of customs agencies are simply transferred to the carriers without proper debate, without a mandate.
Even more important however is the point that carriers have to know where they stand, they have to know with what legislation they have to comply.
This is a crucial point in the discussion of the requirements the American authorities are imposing on carriers.
Any step to one side or the other can have undesirable and far-reaching consequences.
This proposal for a regulation follows the path laid out in 1999 by the directive on vehicle registration documents, aimed at combating the legal trafficking in stolen vehicles, and must improve the functioning of the internal market, offering the service responsible for registration of vehicles better access to the biggest European database of stolen vehicles, namely the Schengen Information System.
Furthermore, by introducing more effective mechanisms for combating vehicle theft, the proposal will have an impact on the security of citizens and consequently on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
Specifically, it provides for the possibility, before the registration of the vehicle, for the national services responsible, under certain conditions to consult the SIS database of stolen vehicles and registration documents and check whether the vehicle in question has already been registered in another State party to the Schengen Agreement.
This information will make it more difficult for thieves to sell stolen vehicles in another ‘Schengen State’ and at the same time will increase the possibility of victims being able to recover their stolen vehicle.
Compliance with those rules will be monitored in a similar way to other searches carried out within the same SIS database.
Indeed, this figure has been exceeded in previous years, and considerable losses have been incurred, totalling EUR&#160;15 million.
It is therefore essential that we fight this type of crime, which causes not only financial loss, but also physical and psychological damage, in view of the various forms of violence associated with car crime.
More than 3&#160;300 vehicles are stolen every day, which corresponds to approximately one theft every 25 seconds.
The purpose of modifying the Schengen Convention is to allow the public vehicle registration authorities direct access to certain categories of data contained in the Schengen Information System (SIS).
The SIS will thus become an even more important instrument in the fight against crime, enabling the authorities to check, quickly and efficiently, whether the vehicle whose registration has been requested has been stolen, misappropriated or lost.
It is calculated that 30% to 40% of the vehicles concerned are stolen by criminal organisations, which then transform them and export them to other countries both inside and outside the EU.
It is proposed to increase access to data that are not yet covered by the SIS, namely data concerning registration certificates and number plates that have been stolen misappropriated or lost.
The set of data accessible to vehicle registration authorities is, therefore, clearly defined and limited to what is necessary and appropriate.
In view of amendments that I have tabled to the Commission’s original proposal – all of which have been approved by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs – I do not believe that the protection of personal data is jeopardised.
Mr President, to reject this step would, to my mind, be a bad decision, as we would remain ineffective in combating this type of crime.
This may be useful and legitimate on certain conditions, particularly with regard to the citizens’ fundamental right to the protection of their personal data, as enshrined in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
A demand has now arisen for vehicle registration agencies to be able to check whether a vehicle has been stolen and whether an applicant’s documents are genuine by obtaining all the necessary information stored in the Schengen Information System.
Problems connected with the legal basis would seem to prevent the use of data relating to identity papers, according to the rapporteur, and so the information should be confined to data on motor vehicles.
The draft regulation remains useful even with these limitations.
What I cannot agree with is that the information should not be supplied by the police or customs authorities who have responsibility for storing and processing Schengen data, but should be acquired directly by public registration agencies through direct access to the SIS database.
This access by the huge number of vehicle registration bodies in the 25 Member States would be a serious threat to the protection of personal data stored in the Schengen system.
The nature of the services responsible for citizens’ security, the rules and controls to which they are subject, and the purposes for which they may use any data that may come to their knowledge are very different from those relating to administrative bodies, in the public sector or otherwise, that take care of vehicle registration.
It would be better, then, to regulate the use of Schengen data by vehicle registration agencies by allowing all of them the same indirect access, which would avoid any risk of abuse and would respect the principle of proportionality. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, according to the report, this modest proposal is aimed, of course, at combating fraud and the illegal trade in stolen motor vehicles, and the means to be used is increased access to the Schengen Information System.
It pains me to say it, Commissioner and Mr&#160;Coelho, but this is a legal and juridico-political farce.
First, regarding the Schengen project in general, which of course constitutes the most extensive system in world history of supervision and political and social control.
From annual reports and surveys, we know that, in 2001, the Schengen Information System’s database contained more than ten million individual pieces of information.
What is termed the Joint Supervisory Authority has, in several annual reports, expressed its lack of ability to function independently.
The Supervisory Authority possesses neither the independence nor the resources necessary for the system to function effectively and affords only modest guarantees in connection with the collection and exchange of information that takes place in the SIS and the even more advanced SIRNE system.
It is Article 71, which deals with transport policy.
I am sure that, like me, he is deeply impressed with the vast amount of support he has received from his colleagues in the PPE-DE Group and that side of the House in the list of speakers before us tonight.
He has told us of the 1.2&#160;million vehicles stolen in the European Union.
We must remember that a fraction – albeit a very small one – of these car thieves have very serious ulterior motives.
From the United Kingdom's point of view, it means that there will now be access to international data that will help in the fight against international cross-border crime, which we all take very seriously.
There are also those who are concerned about the idea of direct access to the data and the question as to whether there are sufficient guarantees for the protection of the data and the protection of citizens, and whether we are setting a dangerous precedent here.
Nevertheless, as responsible citizens and elected representatives of the people, we need to do what we can in the fight against serious crime.
The theft of vehicles is of course very important, but it is what it leads on to and all other aspects connected with it that must focus our attention. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This vast migratory mass, which is mainly driven by economic motives, is jeopardising the asylum system, as many economic migrants, without any other legal means of entering rich countries, try to take the asylum route to gain access to EU territory.
I therefore welcome the Commission’s two communications.
We must establish the asylum system called for at the Tampere European Council.
I should like to reiterate our call for economic aid to be increased, with no provisos attached, for the regions of origin of migratory flows, with the aim of reducing those flows and of promoting solidarity with the poorest countries and with the people who are most in need.
As you know, in application of the previous communication, the Thessalonica European Council gave the Commission another mandate to explore all the parameters guaranteeing the ordered and managed entry into the European Union of persons needing international protection by means of asylum, and the means and resources for increasing the capacity for protection in the regions of origin, and to present a report to the Council before June 2004.
Within this context, it is essential to reach an agreement on the directive on asylum procedures, which in reality is the only extraordinary measure still outstanding.
I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the new approach we are exploring in the communication, the subject of your report, indicates a change of focus: to move away from what we can do to reduce numbers of applications but rather to make progress towards what we can do to improve our work, that is to say, in order to better protect a number of refugees – which we suspect will be greater at global level – trying to find new ways to improve accessibility, fairness and management of the international protection system.
Within this context, I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the rapporteur and the European Parliament for the very constructive role they have played in order to move forward the Aeneas programme, which will contribute to helping third receiving countries, providing them with financial and technical assistance so that they can deal with the pressures they are under when dealing with refugees over long periods of time.
Nevertheless, financial and technical assistance alone is not enough.
The next communication will go into more detail on the reasoned analysis and the parameters for a possible resettlement plan within the European Union, and it is clear that such considerations must be contained within a global context in which the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) will obviously play an important role, given the links with the current global debates on the strategic use of resettlement.
I would like to congratulate the institutions because, finally, five years after the Tampere European Council, we are tackling the creation of a European asylum system which must involve common standards for reception, the processing of applications and assistance for asylum seekers.
The European Union should, firstly, adapt the conditions in which asylum seekers are currently received to Europe's own standards in terms of individual rights and guarantees, hygiene and welfare.
Secondly, we should take this opportunity to adapt to the current reality and include amongst cases granted asylum those of women and children threatened with genital mutilation, child soldiers and the victims of new forms of slavery.
As draftsman of the opinion for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I am pleased that the improvement of asylum systems and the possible establishment of a common European system is not being carried out from a policing point of view, but also by taking account of political aspects and the development and human rights problems which are at the root of both asylum applications and the mass economic migration which is sometimes disguised as asylum.
The Commission's approach should include measures for creating systems of freedoms which respect human rights in the countries of origin, and the establishment of the essential security conditions in neighbouring countries.
This would reduce the pressure from genuine asylum seekers at European borders.
For bogus asylum seekers, the tendency for economic migrants to use the institution of asylum can only be stopped if we fund cooperation projects in the countries of origin which offer prospects for development.
Member States, as the rapporteur has stated, are currently facing a crisis in the asylum system caused by abuses of the various procedures with the increase in mixed flows, a problem that is often exacerbated by the operations of trafficking networks.
At the root of this balanced policy must always be a joint framework of related measures established following detailed examination at Tampere.
The Commission has drafted proposals and obtained Parliament’s opinion in all the areas of asylum policy referred to in the Tampere conclusions.
The Council, on the other hand, has missed the deadlines set by the Tampere, Laeken, Seville and Thessaloniki European Councils and, five years on, we still await its decisions.
The Thessaloniki European Council reminded the Council of the need to ensure that the still-outstanding proposals for directives on minimum standards for asylum and immigration were adopted at the earliest opportunity.
The Commission was called on to explore all parameters in order to ensure more orderly and managed entry into the EU of persons in need of international protection, and to examine how the regions of origin may better ensure the safety of those persons.
It was first and foremost a matter of what response should be given to the report presented by the British Government to the European Council in spring last year entitled ‘New international approaches to asylum processing and protection’.
This report, which made a good deal of sense, posed the huge question as to the need to regain control of asylum systems which are currently creaking under the pressure of immense migratory flows.
I shall, therefore, base my remarks on this report.
It makes four points: one, financial aid to refugees is poorly distributed; two, the current asylum system is of no benefit to the great majority of refugees, the most vulnerable, who are still in place with little protection; three, the very great majority of asylum seekers in the European Union do not meet the criteria needed to obtain the status of refugee or additional protection; four, those denied the right of asylum usually stay here illegally without being sent back to their countries of origin.
Overall, Mr President, this report does not seem to have taken account of either the dramatic problem faced by our societies, whose survival is now at stake, or the need for in-depth revision of our asylum procedures and for our efforts to be directed, as a matter of priority, towards the political stabilisation and economic development of the countries from which these people are driven, in their despair, to emigrate. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
France and Germany today provide almost 42% of the total financing.
After numerous vain attempts on its part, the Commission felt that, as the ninth EDF was due to expire in 2007, when the enlargement of the EU would already have taken place and as the debate on the financial framework after 2006 had started, it was time for another debate on the inclusion of the EDF in the budget.
The Commission is therefore in line with the constant concern expressed for years by Parliament, mindful of budgetary discipline, about the rapid and effective application of resources and the role of codecision which would be devolved to it by inclusion in the budget, whereas today its role in this area is non-existent and it can quite simply not perform its budgetary control task.
Thirdly, introducing transparency.
The complexity of the current system makes it totally opaque as regards the use of the funds.
As you know, if the EDF stays outside the budget, the total value of the tenth EDF risks being limited by the low contributions made by the ten new members of the European Union.
Sixthly, preventing delays in the entry into force of the EDF owing to the obligation of Member States and the ACP countries to ratify the Cotonou financial protocol.
Of course, there are risks and the ACP countries, like some Member States of the Union, are particularly sensitive to these risks.
The risks are: ensuring a fixed level of financing, fearing that the funds reserved for the ACP countries are devoted to other uses or transferred to other applications, as was seen for Iraq or Afghanistan, as could be seen for the reconstruction of a state.
The financial projections set ceilings for the heads for several years and it would therefore be sufficient to create a sub-head, as there are today for headings 1 and 7, in order to prevent and limit this risk.
The EDF covers five years.
This is why we are asking, with the agreement of the Commission, for a regulation to be drawn up establishing the multiannual nature of the EDF and allowing the funds to be used according to technical criteria to be put in place and which are practically already in existence today.
This is important, because it would make it possible to reassure the ACP countries which are afraid not only that the total amount of the EDF will drop, but also that they will lose a large part of the funds previously allocated to them.
Next, and this is important psychologically, in human terms, politically and technically, the ACP countries must be involved in the management of these European Development Funds.
I would like to say that the budgetisation of the EDF can promote the efficiency and flexibility of our development aid as a contribution to the eradication of poverty.
It will put an end to the peculiar situation of administrating the aid to these countries by means of two different systems and we will thereby be able to increase the efficiency of the funds.
We also agree with Parliament that we should provide the ACP countries with a degree of protection in order to prevent the funds made available to them from being used for other purposes.
We believe that the best solution to this problem is legislation decided jointly between Parliament and the Council with a reference sum for a period of one year.
The Council has not yet adopted a definitive position on the issue and the choice between budgetisation or EDF remains open.
The European Development Fund came from the desire on the part of the Member States to help regions in Asia, the Caribbean and the Pacific develop.
The agreement on the fund has to be ratified by all EU countries and two thirds of the recipient countries.
The funds are managed by the Commission, but the authorities in the ACP countries implement the projects.
The European Parliament grants discharge, but it is difficult to clarify administrative procedures and clear accounts.
It is important for EU development cooperation and in the interests of the ACP countries that the management of the European Development Fund can be simplified and made to work more efficiently.
For that reason, the Committee on Budgets supports the Commission proposal on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, this is not the first time that this Parliament has called for integration of the European Development Fund in the EU budget.
Apart from this democratic deficit, there is a second drawback to keeping the EDF outside the budget, which is the duplications that occur in the annual budgets of the Union and the EDF.
The funding of food aid, humanitarian aid and thematic operations in ACP (African, Caribbean and Pacific) countries often comes out of the Community budget.
Budgetisation of the EDF requires a change in the administrative procedures and a change of mentality.
I expressly seek the guarantee from the European Commission and the Commissioner that this will be carried out with care and that the Cotonou Agreement will remain the framework for the budgetised EDF, so that we do not lose the benefits of the present system, such as reciprocal involvement of the ACP countries and Europe and the multi-annual programming of the budget.
It must be stipulated in the budgets of the ACP countries that a minimum of 35% of the funds are to go to social welfare, 20% of which to education and healthcare.
We must ensure, though, that specific allocations for countries and regions remain the basis and that movement of investments only takes place in consultation with the ACP countries.
Finally, I would point out that on integration of the EDF in the budget the coherence principle must be strictly maintained, so that aid and hands are put to work combating poverty.
Mr President, Commissioner, this Commission proposal is eminently suitable for making the overall effort of Europe for the poorest countries, the ACP countries, very much more effective, more serious and more democratically controlled.
All this would divert the EDF from its purpose, which is development.
Quite to the contrary, it would make more sense to use the EDF for actions aimed at improving public health or environmental protection policies, for example.
To work for development, in fact, it would be more logical to delegate control to the joint ACP/EU Parliamentary Assembly.
In fact, who is better placed to rule on the allocation and use of credits than the joint Parliamentary Assembly, in terms of both political legitimacy and capability?
We shall, however, support this report as the symbol of a first step, one that is decisive, but doubtless insufficient. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I regret that this debate is taking place now while the ACP countries are still establishing their position on budgetisation.
It sends the wrong signal to take the decision to budgetise without a full exchange of views with our partners, specifically because it is not clear how this partnership will be maintained once the EDF is budgetised.
Mr Scarbonchi and the Commission have already mentioned the evident benefits of budgetisation for the EU.
These are some of the questions I would like to have answered before I can make up my mind on this important issue.
For some of the issues that have been raised, guarantees must be offered that resource levels for the ACP will be maintained and increased, and that means a five-year financial framework has to be jointly agreed with the ACP.
Very often I have been more worried than I like to say about projects which have ceased to be effective, which needed to be terminated and closed down, so a three-year period is something that we can work with quite easily.
We have to concede that the procedures were particularly cumbersome and we have found that hopeless delays have therefore occurred, to such an extent in fact that a backlog of EUR 11 billion in allocated funds has arisen for which the payments have yet to be made.
So far it has been a matter of voluntary contributions and we wonder whether we will secure the guarantees that the funds will be kept up.
Any intervention would after all have to take place on the basis of a jointly agreed Country Strategy Paper and a Community action plan in which we must take the participation of the ACP countries seriously.
I understand the disquiet of our ACP partners in part, but it would nonetheless be a disappointment if budgetisation were to be to the benefit of transparency but there were to be no efficiency in the spending of the funds.
I therefore hope that we shall succeed both in maintaining the level and increasing the efficiency and the transparency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been a Member of this House for fifteen years, and for fifteen years, my group has been demanding the budgetisation of the EDF.
It is an untenable situation that a fund with an overall budget of this level is not subject to any democratic parliamentary control.
Until now, the Council has been engaged in a kind of poker game over this issue, which is why the entry into force of the 9th EDF was delayed until 2003.
It is absolutely essential that Parliament, in partnership and cooperation with the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, should be able to exert its influence.
The task is to facilitate medium-term financial planning and not cling to the principle of annuality, which would make longer-term development cooperation impossible.
Above all, of course, as various speakers have said, levels of development funding for ACP countries must be guaranteed.
Even more important, however, is to prevent these funds being siphoned off to meet needs elsewhere.
To this end, we are hoping for support not only from the Commission but also, and above all, from the Council. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It was not therefore until after the disaster of 11&#160;September 2001, when a crisis broke out in aviation, that everyone appreciated the fact that now they did have to set to work to guarantee safety and to reassure citizens.
We then worked with all possible speed and following the first reading in Parliament on 3 September 2002 the Commission submitted an amended proposal on 26&#160;November, which included 13 of the 19 amendments adopted by Parliament.
The Council adopted its common position on this in June and Parliament concluded its second reading on 9 October with the adoption of five amendments.
For example, concerning the requirements for the annual report, the power of the Commission to impose measures imposed by a Member State, such as denial of access to the territory or operational conditions for a company, and to extend them to the whole Community, and the speeding up of the implementation procedures.
We emphasised this sensitive point strongly.
We have now however succeeded in substantially strengthening the powers of the Commission in this regard.
We are pleased with the procedure that is being followed in this, because it is precisely this procedure that gives us the guarantee that it will be possible to work very clearly, transparently and in public.
I would remind the Commissioner of her own words in connection with charter companies.
I also think that we must take account of the comments of the people who are currently carrying out the SAFA procedure.
It is said in the report that we must not expect too much of them, because there is really too little time to carry out these inspections with any thoroughness and regularity.
I hope that the other directives to be adapted will contain the same guarantees, so that this directive offers the full guarantee that all travellers boarding an aircraft, be it from a third country or from a Member State, have the same guarantees with regard to their safety.
It is rather shocking that in Europe, in European territory, we still have a colony, but the United Nations says it, no less.
Thanks not to the problem of September 2001, however, but rather to the United Kingdom and Spain once again putting this issue to one side and accepting a formula which does not prejudge anything, either in favour of one country or the other – it simply leaves the dispute between the two countries frozen, despite the progress made within the European Union and the other countries, including those two – we were able to unblock this issue.
This is an issue which affects not just this proposal, but a whole series of other proposals relating to the air sector.
When I arrived I found that there were nine or ten, then the whole of the ‘Single Sky’, but in the end, in 2000 we managed to unblock everything and we have been able to bring it forward.
I would like to say that, before being approved, this Directive is already having an effect.
Specifically, a few weeks ago, one of the countries of the European Union, within the framework of the SAFA programme, which now exists within the context of the ECAC, detected serious deficiencies in a third country airline and has denied it access to its airports.
Safety is the key issue in air travel – as it is in other sectors, but it is particularly so in air travel, not only since the tragic accident at Sharm-el-Sheik.
The directive which we will adopt tomorrow is therefore extremely important in the transport policy context and, indeed, in the eyes of the general public.
In my view, the following points are important: firstly, the carrying out of uniform apron checks on aircraft about which a particular suspicion exists, as well as spot-check inspections in the case of aircraft in which defects have already been identified frequently in the past, and on all others; and secondly, the collection and dissemination of all relevant information on safety, as well as on specific incidents and the measures implemented.
This transparency will result in the existence of black lists or white lists sooner or later.
In my view, given the ever-increasing volume of air traffic, these efforts to achieve harmonisation come at the right time. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I say 'finally' because Parliament had waited for more than one and a half years.
Let me give you some examples.
In this context, we felt it was important to ensure a separation between coordinators and any individual party, to guarantee coordinators' financial independence, and above all to protect coordinators from claims for damages.
The Council took up this issue.
This ensures their independence and means that they are not susceptible to undue financial pressure.
The most important advance for the future is, of course, the Transport Ministers' recognition of the new definition of slots as usage rights.
This change in the system is essential, in my view, also for the second phase of the future Slot Regulation.
The Council also followed our decision and has maintained flexibility and planning certainty for airlines.
This means that there is still a black hole in the Regulation into which slots disappear.
This is an untenable situation for the internal market.
This proposal must set clear and transparent rules for slot trading on a Europe-wide basis.
The most important thing is that we finally know what a slot is, because, until now, we did not know what its legal nature was.
The clarification of the legal nature of slots will allow us to take the next step, Mr Stockmann, which I hope to have presented before the end of the year.
With this proposal we will be able to establish, as well as the current system, which does not theoretically allow for any type of negotiation of those rights, the clarification of how those rights can be negotiated within a transparent system, bearing in mind that there are public service aspects clearly associated with the use of those slots in different airports.
We did this before making this proposal.
The slots are a general good – in Frankfurt, Paris or at any other airport.
I am most grateful that the Council, Parliament and the Commission have agreed to strengthen the role and independence of coordinators, for the coordinators' role is to ensure the effective use of airports and airspace in the common interest, not to create advantages or disadvantages for the airlines or airports.
The aim must be to ensure the best possible use of the airports for airlines and passengers in economic and environmental terms.
If I am not mistaken, I believe that these two initiatives which we have discussed today – the conciliation on the safety of third party aircraft and the second reading on the proposed common rules for the allocation of slots – are the last two initiatives on the air sector which we will approve during this Parliament.
Only three of the usual hard-workers of the ‘House’ are here – in the end, it is always the same people who find ourselves in these discussions – but they are three very important people with whom I have worked and collaborated over all these years wonderfully well, to provide enormous impetus for the European air sector, including, amongst other things, the ‘Single Sky’, certain aspects of safety, the Air Safety Agency, the rights of passengers and slots.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12&#160;noon.
As one of the longest-serving Members of this House, let me say that it was a pleasure working with you, especially on the issue of air travel, over such a long period.
Many thanks, Madam Vice-President. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Jarzembowski.
The next sitting will take place tomorrow, Thursday(1).
