rapporteur. - Mr President, I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to be Parliament's rapporteur on the disability action plan.
We also have to address access to information technology.
When we talk about disability, we must remember that we are talking about all forms of disability: people with mobility problems, hearing impairments, visual impairments, mental health problems, learning disabilities, chronic illnesses and other, hidden, disabilities.
I welcome the Court of Justice ruling of 11 July, but we must take this forward.
The key point of next year's European Action Plan must be access for the disabled to high-quality, affordable services.
The year 2007 will be the European Year of Equal Opportunities, as part of which we must also give attention to disability in education and culture programmes.
The European Union has important multiannual cultural programmes between 2007 and 2013.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European action plan 2006-2007 for people with disabilities identifies a strategy based on the principle of equal access to goods and services for every European citizen.
We support the formulation of the following three objectives: to finish implementing the directive on equal treatment in employment and working conditions; to do more to integrate disability-related issues in relevant Community polices; and to improve access for all.
National law should be improved in parallel, removing all discriminatory provisions that are not in keeping with Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) It is crucial that the noble promises of the Commission and the Member States to defend the rights of the disabled do not remain just rhetoric.
More effective action must be taken, the existing legislation in this area must be effectively complied with and human rights for all must be guaranteed.
We once again call for a specific directive on disability to be drawn up, based on Article 13 of the Treaty, and for the UN Convention in this area to be ratified and signed.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) On behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group I should like to thank Mrs Lynne for her excellent work.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Madam President, the report on the situation of people with disabilities in the enlarged European Union is actually more of a wish list for improving the quality of life of the disabled than a factual account and analysis of their present situation.
The European Union ought to make a commitment in this regard and ensure that the necessary resources are available.
In addition, the disabled need the certainty that the Member States of the Union are supporting them by imposing harsher punishments for offences against the disabled. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner Špidla, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day for this House and I would therefore like to congratulate Mrs Lynne on her report, because we are taking a further step in our task of building a Europe of opportunities.
One way by which we judge our success as a society is how we address the issues facing the most vulnerable members of our society.
The banner on the platform behind me said simply: Leben wie andere auch - to live the same as other people.
Governments cannot do everything, but they can become enablers of individual choice, helping people with disabilities to do what they themselves want to do by removing the barriers that stand in their way - barriers in education, employment or simply in getting from A to B.
Honourable Members, perhaps it is also appropriate to mention that 2007 is the Year of Equal Opportunities, which in my view provides a good opportunity to mobilise the Community.
I would stress, in this respect, that it is advisable for the Member States of the European Community to adopt a basically uniform approach, so as to prevent unjustified inequalities from materialising among Europeans in this regard just because they come from different parts of Europe. (HU) People with disabilities in Europe today face particular difficulties and discrimination at several levels.
The European Parliament's and the Council's Regulation of 5 July 2006 constitutes progress, then, and clarifies something that should be self-evident, especially since we have a common internal market: namely, that people with disabilities should have the same rights as other citizens where flying is concerned.
