&#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament 2005-2006 open. &#160;&#160; The sitting is open. &#160;&#160; I would like to welcome Mr Solomon Passy, Bulgarian Foreign Affairs Minister, who is visiting Parliament today and who is in the official gallery.
This visit, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, represents an important step in the process of accession and in strengthening the links between Bulgaria and the European Parliament.
If Parliament expresses a favourable opinion, and if the accession treaty is signed on 25 April in Luxembourg, as scheduled, we will have the great pleasure of receiving amongst us, firstly, the Bulgarian observers, and then the Members who will sit in this House.
Minister, I wish you a happy stay in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating International Women’s Day.
I had the opportunity to condemn these actions yesterday in plenary.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment and until 11&#160;March, the United Nations are hosting a World Conference on gender equality to review the progress made since the Beijing Conference of 1995, ten years ago now.
As you know, a Delegation from our Parliament is participating very actively in this Conference, as was also the case in 1995.
Today in Europe, one in every five women claim to have been victims of abuse, one in every five.
And unfortunately this proportion is increasing in many countries.
In the rich, democratic, developed and cohesive European Union, poverty is becoming increasingly feminised.
When the day comes when all the Member States apply the Declaration relating to Article III-116 of the Constitution and adopt the necessary measures to punish criminal acts, because we are talking about criminal violence against women, we will have taken a great step forward.
But I would like this to come about, not because a rule imposes it, but because the equal distribution of capacities between men and women is reflected in our social and political practices.
Inequality manifests itself in the cruellest and hardest way in the lowest strata of society, where a combination of dreadful working conditions and family burdens makes life hardest for women.
The next item is the debate on the oral questions to the Council (B6-0015/2005) and to the Commission (B6-0016/2005) on the follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women – Platform for Action (Beijing + 10). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, today being International Women’s Day, it is an important opportunity to draw attention to the fact that women around the world are insufficiently involved in decision-making.
As a rapporteur in Beijing, I did of course follow closely what the European Union was doing and the action it was taking; I did so again five years later at ‘Beijing + 5’ in New York, and now, with a delegation from the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, I am doing the same with ‘Beijing + 10’.
The United States of America has pushed hard for the platform for action to be renegotiated in order to spark renewed controversy and gain renewed influence, particularly in matters affecting twelve critical areas – prime among them being reproductive and sexual rights, which, in practical terms, means abortion.
European countries have performed very well in the Inter-Parliamentary Union’s assessment of participation in governments, even though women’s participation stands at only 10% in France and Italy.
To that our European anti-discrimination policy has given a great deal of impetus, even though its implementation in the Member States still leaves much to be desired.
Our various actions against violence, such as the Daphne and STOP programmes, have highlighted the need for violence to be curtailed.
We find it completely unacceptable that practically one woman in five in Europe should be at least once in her life, the victim of some form of violence.
The Presidency has already delivered a message, a robust one I hope, giving an indication of the Union’s commitment to seeing the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action implemented properly and in full.
Today, the European Union considers equality between women and men to be a fundamental principle and the rights of women and girls to be an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights.
The ‘Beijing + 10’ review comes at an important time, because it will not only enable the Union to strengthen its programme and its commitment to achieving the objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action, but will also provide an opportunity to identify the areas where progress has been made and those where concerted action needs to be further stepped up.
The report published recently as part of ‘Beijing + 10’ on the progress made within the European Union, which was drafted by the Luxembourg Presidency, sets out clearly the major results achieved by the European Union institutions, as well as the progress made in terms of institutional mechanisms in the Member States.
Nevertheless, in its report, the Presidency also lists the challenges that remain to be addressed, and Mrs&#160;Gröner has just cited several relating to the 12 critical areas of concern identified at the Fourth World Conference on Women, which was held in Beijing in 1995.
Allow me also to refer you to the Commission’s Annual Report on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in the European Union, which was adopted on 14&#160;February.
Nevertheless, despite the progress made on establishing equality between women and men, there is a discrepancy between equality in law and equality in real life, and there are significant disparities between women and men in many sectors, as the Presidency’s report also shows.
Let us now take a look at the critical areas of concern identified in the Beijing Platform for Action to which you referred in your question.
The good news is that women’s employment rates have increased at a greater rate than men’s over the last ten years, but the bad news is that the difference between the two is still very high, at 17.2 %, and that the wage gap between men and women remains practically the same.
In accordance with the European Employment Strategy, the Member States have put mechanisms in place for meeting this objective as part of their national action plans.
It is also part of the strategy to reconcile work and family life.
Considerable progress has already been made in this respect in many Member States, even though the traditional division of childcare and paid work between women and men persists, and this in spite of the efforts made by certain Member States to implement policies seeking to encourage fathers to take parental leave.
This year’s draft Joint Employment Report, which will be sent to the Spring European Council, also clearly shows that more concerted action is needed to increase women’s participation in the labour market, and in particular to address the pay gaps between women and men.
With a view to responding to these concerns, the ministers responsible for gender equality policy in the 25 Member States undertook, in a declaration adopted on 4&#160;February 2005, to develop strategies to increase the number of women in employment and in quality jobs, to guarantee and protect the rights of women workers and to remove structural, legal and psychological barriers to gender equality at work.
The aim is also to promote policies enabling women and men to strike a balance between their professional and private lives, including their family responsibilities.
We hope that the present Daphne programme, which will be in force until the end of 2008, will remain an essential programming instrument to combat violence.
The projects carried out under this programme over the years have made it possible to create many effective networks and to develop good methodologies.
They also decided to intensify actions to prevent and combat all forms of trafficking in women and girls through a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary and coordinated anti-trafficking strategy.
This strategy will include measures to address all of the factors that encourage trafficking, by strengthening existing legislation with a view to providing better protection of the rights of women and girls and to prosecuting and punishing the perpetrators through both criminal and civil measures.
As regards your request to make 2006 the European Year against Violence towards Women, I cannot deny that such an initiative could help to raise public awareness of this issue, but, according to my information, the Commission intends to declare 2006 the ‘European Year of Mobility for Workers’.
It has also announced that, as part of its drive to promote diversity and non-discrimination, 2007 will be the ‘European Year of Equal Opportunities’ and it would seem that 2010 is to be declared the ‘European Year of the Fight against Exclusion and Poverty’.
Women and poverty: in the ministerial declaration of 4&#160;February, the Member States also agreed to strengthen efforts to combat social exclusion and to remove obstacles to women’s participation in the labour market, on the basis that a good job is one of the best ways of escaping poverty.
The issue of gender-specific indicators could be addressed in the future.
Women and the environment: as regards the measures currently being taken by the European Union to take account of gender in its development cooperation policy, I should like to remind you that last April the European Parliament and the Council adopted a regulation on promoting gender equality in the Community’s policies, strategies and interventions in development cooperation.
This follows the 1998 regulation, which recognised that actions in support of development have rarely taken proper account of the differences between the situations, roles, opportunities and priorities of men and women, and that correcting the inequalities between men and women and strengthening the role of women are vital to achieving social justice and ensuring that our development work is effective.
May I also stress that the regulation was adopted in the context of the Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, as well as the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome document of the special session of the General Assembly entitled, ‘Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century’.
During the 49th Session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, the Presidency stated, on behalf of the European Union, that it recognised that gender equality and women’s empowerment were essential for sustainable development and poverty eradication.
Girls: I have already addressed the issue of trafficking, but I should like to add that, in a recent declaration, the European Union ministers responsible for gender equality policy agreed to mainstream a gender perspective into national immigration and asylum policies, regulations and practices, as appropriate in order to promote and protect the rights of all women and girls, including by considering steps to recognise gender-related persecution and violence when assessing grounds for granting refugee status and asylum.
I should also like to stress that in April 2004 the Council adopted a directive seeking to have residence permits issued to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings.
Women’s rights are human rights: before the Commission on the Status of Women, the Presidency reaffirmed, on behalf of the Member States, its view that full respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms is essential to empowering women and girls and to establishing a genuine democracy.
This point of view should continue to prevail when the Council negotiates the forthcoming Commission proposal to establish an Agency on Fundamental Rights.
I should also add that the European Union’s statement in New York also mentioned the need to eradicate harmful customary or traditional practices, including female genital mutilation, early and forced marriage and crimes committed in the name of honour, which are obstacles to the full enjoyment by women and girls of their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Women and armed conflicts: the Council has taken note of the European Parliament’s resolution recommending that women should constitute at least 40% of the staff of reconciliation, peace-keeping and conflict-prevention operations.
Discussions have indeed been held in the European Union on the importance of having women in peace-keeping forces, and on the need to provide all of those involved with training on the particular problems faced by civilian women in conflict zones.
They also decided to act in accordance with the Council of Europe Declaration, Programme of Action and Resolution on democratisation, conflict prevention and peace-building.
During the first week of the work of the Commission on the Status of Women, the European Union outlined its commitment to promoting the role of women in conflict prevention and resolution, peace-building and democratic processes after conflicts, as well as after natural disasters and during reconstruction.
I should now like to conclude by thanking you for allowing me, on this International Women’s Day, to give voice to the European Union’s determination to achieve gender equality and its commitment to meeting the objectives set out in the Beijing Platform for Action and the follow-up documents from the 55th Session of the General Assembly in 2000, which have lost none of their relevance today.
First, I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Gröner and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities for this extensive and complex question.
I am pleased that the United Nations has reached an agreement on a political declaration in this context; it is no coincidence that the European Union has made a significant contribution to this decision.
The European Commission played an active role in the coordination of positions for the preparation and continuation of the Beijing Platform for Action within the United Nations.
The report is based on indicators on which the Member States agreed.
Your first question concerns two central problems.
One is the participation of women in the labour market, and I would like to stress that efforts to eliminate the inequality between men and women are and will remain a fundamental prerequisite in achieving the Lisbon objectives.
It is also necessary to underline the fact that the role of the social partners in this field is important and, in some respects, crucial.
One of the European Union’s tasks that still needs to be resolved is the difficult reconciliation of family and working life.
Therefore, in its new social agenda, the Commission proposed a communication on future developments in policies concerning the equality of women and men.
I would also like to mention the fact that, in this respect, the review of the Working Time Directive will be highly significant.
In the programme for the equality of women and men, projects and conferences have been funded within the framework of the Presidency, and we are now analysing the results.
Ten years after Beijing, women remain, unfortunately, the victims of the dramatic phenomenon of trafficking in women.
The Commission plans to publish this communication by the end of the first half of the year.
I am well acquainted with your proposal of a European Year Against Violence Against Women.
The Commission considers the fight against violence against women to be a matter of paramount importance, and has studied the request from the European Parliament that 2006 be declared the European Year against this form of violence.
However, the Commission notes that 2004 was the subject of a global campaign by Amnesty International on the same theme, and therefore, while there is no doubt about the significance of the initiative brought up by Parliament, the Commission is reserved as regards the opportunity of proposing this event at a European level as early as 2006 when it took place on a global level in 2004.
The mainstay of the European Union’s policy for audiovisual media is Directive 97/36/EC, Television without Frontiers.
Within the framework of the review of this Directive in 2005, the Commission will present a proposal that takes account of the rules related to human dignity, especially rules against discrimination.
Another important instrument in the field of the media is the recent proposal of a recommendation concerning the protection of minors and human dignity and the right to reply, with regard to competitiveness in the audiovisual sphere and the European industry of information services.
In our conditions of developmental assistance, we propose a strategy for the equality of women and men as a goal in itself, and we acknowledge the leading role of equality in developmental policies as we seek to reduce poverty and improve government, and in human rights.
I would like to stress that women’s rights are fundamental human rights; the issue of the equality of men and women in the European Union goes beyond the framework of respecting a fundamental right.
As you know, the Commission is preparing a proposal for an expansion in the responsibilities of the monitoring centre in Vienna to include the protection of fundamental rights, and although it is too early to express an opinion on the activities of the future agency, this agency will clearly handle the protection of the fundamental rights of both men and women.
I think it will be a step that will reinforce the policies of equal opportunities, that will result in something I hold in high importance – a solid base, and I believe it will give us more room to take action armed with knowledge and free of prejudices.
True equality of human rights, equal pay for equal work, protection for working mothers, fair career advancement and the equality of spouses in family life are matters of urgency.
The social presence of women calls into question a society based on efficiency and productivity alone.
Abuses against women must be strongly condemned as a matter of urgency, women and girls defended against all forms of violence that turn them into objects or commodities.
A woman who is able to express her creative genius becomes truly revolutionary because she knows how to resolve conflicts, to make and restore peace.
Let us women therefore wish ourselves a happy anniversary! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I was also fortunate enough to be part of Parliament’s delegation to the Fourth World Conference on the Beijing Platform and I should like to congratulate the Luxembourg Presidency on the firm and correct stance that it has taken.
The United Nations Secretary-General gave warning that 201&#160;million women are still without access to contraception and pointed out that one third of deaths during pregnancy and childbirth are caused by a lack of reproductive and sexual health services.
When a woman has to choose between breast-feeding her child and keeping her job in management; when a woman has to choose between looking after her sick children and the risk of being sacked; when a woman finds that the people at work are more understanding if she asks to leave early in order to take the car in for a service than in order to pick up her child at the kindergarten; all of this tells you everything about the mentality of those who hold economic power and about the undervaluation of jobs traditionally allocated to women.
A large number of women suffer violence at the hands of the men with whom they have or have had a relationship.
It is said that considerable progress has been made, but in fact there has been no progress, because we have not yet realised the full extent of the problem.
On our continent, women and girls are being sold like cattle.
Consequently, from now on I will end all my speeches in this House with a phrase borrowed from a famous Roman politician: –‘I therefore maintain that prostitution must be abolished’. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, the Beijing Platform for Action was a milestone, and the Commission’s past policies often a beacon, in terms of policy on women’s issues.
I hope that will continue to be the case, and that the equal opportunities policy for women will not come to a standstill.
I heard nothing from you about how we are meant to do away with the wage gap, which really is a cause for concern to us, not to mention the day for the elimination of violence against women.
I hope that a policy of equal opportunities will not be something just for today, but for 365 days in the year.
Certainly, progress has been made, but the basic patriarchal power system still exists.
On behalf of women in the Member States, I also regret the neo-liberal economic policy, with its deregulation and privatisation, which makes women’s situation still more difficult where both job opportunities and access to childcare and care of the elderly are concerned.
As a woman and a doctor, however, I should like to protest most strongly in this House against the tendency to treat women as objects, to subject women to aggressive masculinisation and to use the phrase ‘reproductive health’ to refer to motherhood.
A woman’s dignity and mystery are revealed through her role as a mother, which need not be understood in a strictly physical sense.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group will vote against this resolution because of its use of the phrase ‘reproductive health’, and it will make every effort to ensure that this phrase is deleted, as it is inappropriate and insults the dignity of women. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr President.
Mr President, 8 March is an internationally recognised holiday, International Women’s Day.
The UN’s 4th World Conference on Women in 1995 in Beijing first highlighted the issue of discrimination by race and sex.
At the same time, within narrower communities the barriers of sexual discrimination hold her back.
Yet despite this, Roma women endure numerous incidents which contradict these principles.
Roma women live on the crossroads of sexual and ethnic prejudice, but it is not possible to reduce their problems to merely cultural or ethnic dimensions.
They struggle with the same problems as non-Roma women who are often equally excluded and impoverished, and have worse employment opportunities than men, lower rates of pay, and consistently experience shortcomings in child-care services such as nursery care, kindergarten or schooling.
In my opinion, one of the most important elements in our struggle for equality of opportunities for women is that we recognise, accept, increase awareness and cure the multiple discriminations burdening women who live in minorities, including Roma women. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now ten years since the United Nations Beijing Conference, whose platform established the rights of women.
The attempt was foiled, largely thanks to the European delegation, and in particular to the intelligent and vital work of the Luxembourg Minister, Mrs&#160;Jacob, who led our delegation and to whom I should like to express heartfelt thanks.
Spain, with its socialist Prime Minister Zapatero, has proved that democracy with equality can be achieved. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the last conference, which was held in Beijing in 1995, clearly identified a number of factors in female poverty and recognised the gender-specific dimension in the way governments deal with poverty.
The chain of events that lead to poverty is always the same: unemployment, sickness, humiliation and then social exclusion.
It is a vicious circle where women are more vulnerable than men.
Indeed, they are constantly in a situation of inequality relative to men, in all areas of society.
Moreover, the AIDS virus spreads more quickly in environments where women are kept in a state of sexual slavery.
Improving the status of women is one of the most effective ways of developing society as a whole and making it more stable.
Moreover, the position of women in the developing countries is connected with our security.
The birth rate, on the other hand, goes down when the social position of women improves, when they receive an education and information on birth control, and when they have their own means of earning a livelihood.
It is unacceptable that unemployment continues to rise in Member States as a result of increasingly neoliberal policies, that insecure work is spreading in the name of flexible work and competitiveness, that there continues to be salary discrimination, that the trafficking of human beings and prostitution persist and that violence is a day-to-day reality for millions of women in the EU and appropriate measures are not being taken to remedy this state of affairs.
This debate will hopefully contribute towards fresh progress in the fight for women’s rights, which is pursued in a spirit of solidarity. &#160;&#160; It is true that, in historical terms, not much time has passed since the first country legislated on women’s equal right to vote, which according to the history books was New Zealand in 1893, and within Europe Finland in 1906.
Indeed, in several countries this difference rather shows a tendency to increase, what the legal experts call a difference between the andstates of affairs.
In the countries of Central-Eastern Europe a woman dies every week as a victim of violence within the family.
We cannot always be effective against such practices and customs, which have no place among human dignity or laws.
Recent events in Istanbul show that institutionalised violence against women is part of life today, right on the doorstep of the European Union.
From the resolution what emerges is that we should solve what can be solved and talk about what cannot yet be solved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last Friday in New York we agreed on a declaration on the ten-year review of the Platform for Action agreed in Beijing ten years ago.
However, poverty still has a female face and violence against women is pervasive: one in four women in the world is subject to violence, a significant number of them in their own homes.
I condemn the violence used by the police against women involved in peaceful demonstration.
European socialist women are ready to fight with all their energy against this conservative backlash in the US.
Today, European socialist women have launched a pledge card with five priorities, the most important of which is more and better jobs for women.
We cannot hope to achieve our economic and social objectives set in Lisbon without more women in work.
This is not about women fighting for women, but about a common battle, fighting for a better EU for women. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my speech I will focus just on equality and equal pay in the EU countries.
The representative of the Council spoke just now and said that the ministers responsible for equality in the EU countries are committed to the development of strategies to promote women’s employment and skills.
President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, now is the time to take action to prevent us from losing our credibility completely and to enable us to fulfil the promises that have been given to women, children and men.
In ten years the EU could set itself the objective of achieving equal pay for women and men once and for all.
We are still far from achieving equality of opportunity in such areas as education and careers.
A State of the World Population Report study published by the UN indicates that around 5&#160;000 girls and women, in at least fourteen countries – Pakistan and Turkey among them – are murdered in the name of honour, although the number of such killings that go unreported is much higher.
We all have to do much more for women’s rights.
The European Parliament is rich in debates and resolutions referring to the participation of women in economic and public life and to particular problems and discrimination which they face in their lives.
However, it is particularly important that we are debating them again today, 8 March, on International Women's Day because, in this way, we all – men and women – have a greater realisation that these problems are centuries old and cut across the ages and remain unresolved and topical.
This year, 8 March also coincides with the tenth anniversary of the Beijing conference and the adoption of the platform on a strategy to combat these problems.
As European men and women, we have a heightened awareness of this global endeavour, because our historical experience convinces us that combating women's problems and achieving real equality are necessary prerequisites to growth, the quality of democracy and peace.
What I would like to emphasise today is that we need to remain faithful to the global nature of this platform, by which I mean to the monitoring of the twelve crucial sectors which interact: efforts on employment, education, health, combating violence and participation in political life are directly connected.
But it is also the case, unfortunately, that the reality in many fields is still a long way from matching what is laid down in our laws and what we have stated in our declarations.
Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in recent days in New York, if we had not been careful, the progress we have worked so hard to make could have been reversed through the negative influence of ultra-conservative forces and religious fundamentalism, particularly with regard to human rights and the sexual and reproductive rights of women.
I would like to insist that, without a new framework strategy, it will be much more difficult for us to move forward.
The rise in the incidence of crimes against women, particularly the trafficking of them and forced prostitution, has risen so much in recent years.
Violence against women goes on everywhere, even in families.
It is estimated that one woman in five is the victim of violence at least once in her life.
Such a state of affairs is intolerable.
Women who have been mistreated must not be shamed out of going public and drawing attention to their situation.
One woman in five in the EU is a victim of domestic violence, which is a serious human rights violation and one that must now be brought into the public domain.
Commissioner, it would seem to be a matter of urgent necessity to set in motion aggressive policies to provide information on rights and to enforce existing laws in the Member States as well as to implement an effective policy of controls and penalties, because it is not enough to set ambitious targets and then see nothing change over 10, 20 or 30 years.
The enlarged, reunified Europe, the land of freedom, the land of human rights, has the duty to comply with its future Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are marking this day, 8 March, this year with the continuing follow-up to the Beijing Platform, following the meeting in New York.
We are distressed and appalled by violence against women, prostitution, trafficking in women and people-trafficking in general.
The woman is the basis of the family and any affront to women is a direct affront to the family, the basis of our society. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to congratulate all women today on International Women’s Day by sending them greetings from Sweden’s Social Democrats who, in 2001, became a feminist party.
The traditional roles of women in childcare and care for the elderly are all part of this wider debate and it is not possible to do justice to the subject in two minutes.
That will not always be possible, but let us have a broader and balanced debate and restore choice for women.
As rapporteur for women’s rights in Turkey, I can say that, on paper, the situation of women’s rights is comparable to that of the European Member States, although practice leaves a great deal to be desired.
Violence perpetrated against women, and the relative lack of participation by them in the labour market, in education and in politics, are still major areas of concern in which change is possible only if women acquire the right to be able to speak out and to demonstrate.
The European Union has an important role to play in this too, in that it must show that it will give the situation of women’s rights a prominent place on the negotiating agenda, closely monitor progress, and take immediate action in the event of violations. &#160;&#160; Exceptionally, I am not addressing you, Mr President, but the women who are listening to us.
Women are here and are placing hopes in us that we cannot disappoint.
My thoughts go particularly to Simone Veil, who was president of this Parliament and who gave France a law allowing the voluntary termination of pregnancy.
Thank you, Madam, for your courage because you had a lot of mud thrown at you.
For all the women who have known the distress of an unwanted pregnancy I say: 30 years is too little, because abortion is becoming taboo again!
However, what comes first for the European Union is also to help third countries – developing countries – reach a level which will allow women to be treated with dignity.
Secondly, promoting special economic and social incentives for integration into the job market, effective dissuasive actions so that women's lives are not downgraded, wiping out violence, as occurred in Turkey over the last few days, and the participation of women with quotas in political parties and central and local government.
Poverty and social inclusion must remain one of the pillars of the Lisbon strategy in the same way as equality between men and women.
I am in complete agreement with the European Parliament’s very committed fight against violence against women and children and, of course, the fight against human trafficking.
The fundamental fact remains that the European Union considers equal opportunities between men and women, and equality between men and women, to be one of the key political values that it upholds.
These are absolutely unwarranted disparities, and it is up to us to make the corresponding effort to combat this situation.
It is absolutely clear that special issues are violence against women and trafficking in human beings.
The group of Commissioners for human rights considers this issue to be one of its most fundamental tasks, and I expect that we will be able to make progress in this respect.
Ladies and gentlemen, the role of women in the success of the European project in general, and for the success of the Lisbon Strategy in particular, is indispensable.
The establishment of a new institution will ensure transparency and will also provide professional answers to a whole number of questions which have been asked but which have not yet been adequately resolved.
It will also evaluate and assess the techniques and procedures we have chosen that have often resulted in a certain progress but which have not provided a complete climax.
There is no doubt that the proportion of women actively involved in the labour market has increased during the monitoring of the Lisbon Strategy.
These efforts must not end, we can never be satisfied with the progress we have made, because as the world changes the problems will change, and we will be faced with new challenges.
One of them is the demographic ageing of society, another is the balance between family life and working life, yet another, mentioned by several others here, is a deeper understanding on the part of our men within the framework of ordinary social customs.
Again, I stress that violence against any human being is repulsive and it is the obligation of the European project and the European Union to seek out effective ways of preventing such violence.
Violence against women is violence which truly exists on an enormous scale in our society, and we cannot remain indifferent; we must use all means available to us.
One issue in the debate was whether it was more effective to declare a European Year Against Violence in 2006, considering that 2004 was a global year against violence, or to declare it at a time which is still open to discussion and which would ensure it carried greater weight and greater conclusiveness.
This is the question; the point is not violence as such, because, as I have said, this is one of the key agendas which has been adopted by the current Commission and which it believes to be important, and which, I hope, we can fulfil as we strive to make progress.
In accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, I have received six proposals for resolutions(1) in conclusion of this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0035/2005) by Mrs Figueiredo, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the social situation in the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the time has come to pay closer attention to the social impact of the reduction in economic growth of more than 50% in the last three years and to the enlargement of the EU.
The social situation, as we know, is deteriorating, and worrying signs are already coming to light, notably the fact that 20&#160;million people are unemployed and around 70&#160;million people are subsisting below the poverty line, and these problems particularly affect women, the elderly and children.
In other countries, however, such as Portugal, there are regions in which the unemployment rate is very high due to growing de-industrialisation, to the relocation of multinationals and to the privatisation of public sectors and services.
On average in the EU, only one in three permanent full-time jobs is held by a woman, and it is women who continue to suffer from direct and indirect wage discrimination, with wage differences ranging from 16% to 30% on average, and even higher in some countries.
It is therefore essential that we scrap the Stability Pact and replace it with a genuine development and employment pact that gives priority to creating more quality jobs accompanied by workers’ rights, a pact that commits us to a root and branch revision of the Lisbon Strategy, thereby eliminating the liberalisation and deregulation of work and placing all of the emphasis on jobs with rights and social inclusion.
Such inequality must not be allowed to continue, when 15% of the EU population is at risk of poverty, a figure that in some countries rises to 20% or more, as in Portugal, Greece and Ireland.
Welfare and social security benefits are vital to reduce the risk of poverty.
Without social transfers, including pensions and other forms of support, the risk of poverty would affect, on average, 30% of the population in Finland, 37% in Portugal, 40% in France and the United Kingdom and 42% in Italy.
The Commission must therefore withdraw its proposal for a directive on the completion of the internal market in services and must not push through new regulations on the organisation of working time.
Measures must be put in place aimed at restricting company mergers and multinational relocations, at supporting productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, at combating existing discrimination, at promoting equality and participatory democracy and at reducing working hours without loss of earnings, in order to facilitate the creation of more jobs, to reconcile work with family life and to provide lifelong training and education.
The new social policy agenda must not be a mere collection of words and statements without practical content.
I therefore hope that there will be a debate in this House on these issues.
I should like to thank those people who helped me to draw up this report, which will hopefully be adopted without the amendments contained in certain proposals tabled by members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and by the liberals.
During the debates with Members of the European Parliament in the preparation of the new social agenda, which was adopted by the Commission on 9 February, I emphasised the significance of your bill.
I am using my participation in today’s session to remind us that the preparation of this standpoint, including the debate held by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs with representatives of social partners and civil society, has helped create a new social agenda.
They have the legitimate expectation that the European Union will tackle these problems and help to find appropriate solutions.
I would like to point out that the Commission regularly publishes analyses and statistics in its political documents, and especially in regular reports, covering issues such as the social situation in Europe, employment in Europe, and industrial relations in Europe.
These reports provide a very good cohesive overview of social problems, offer a summary of statistics, and present detailed analyses concentrating on specific themes such as the protection of health, the quality of work, restructuring, discrimination and equality. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks, Mr&#160;President, Commissioner.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has an extremely negative opinion of the report we are debating today.
We believe that from the outset this report relied too heavily on an ideological approach to social problems in the European Union.
At the same time, it ignores a number of key practical aspects relating to the real social situation in the European Union and the real problems we face.
I can therefore state quite categorically that the rapporteur has failed to make any allowance in her assessments for the significant influence of Communist regimes on the social situation in the new Member States.
Our past experiences lead us to believe that the European Union should not place excessive restrictions on the freedom to pursue economic activities.
Any debate we hold on unemployment should also focus on employers, as the only effective way to create new jobs is to make it possible for them to pursue their activities.
We would stress that in order for the group to vote in favour of the report, the very least that would be necessary would be for all the amendments to be adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on this women’s day the long debate we have just had on the situation of women would not be out of place in this debate on the social situation in Europe, because the questions are very much related and women are often the first victims of a much more general situation.
The social situation in the European Union in 2004, which we are looking at today and which is the subject of the report we have before us, is alarming.
The question we have to answer is a simple one: are we going to promote social equality and development equality, or are we going to allow free competition to make the social situation in Europe even worse?
We must answer that question by adopting a social agenda that takes concrete measures to deal with the problem.
We prefer the emphasis that our own amendment places on how the Lisbon Strategy should address deficiencies in the current social situation.
Finally, on recital M, there have been some translation problems.
We would specify that this must be understood as asking only for Member States to consider introducing the concept of a minimum income as the basis of social protection when they do not currently have such a system.
We cannot be indifferent to the fact that, in a Europe that is generally rich, one person in seven faces the threat of poverty.
Let me then, again call for this report to be adopted, and for the Council meeting in March to devote all its energies to the social situation in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the social situation is dependent on employment.
There is a certain difference in outlook between Mrs Figueiredo's report and the Barroso Commission.
The report, if adopted, would lead to further initiatives and pressure to press on with the Lisbon agenda.
The single most important factor is the common currency.
Along with my colleagues, I shall vote against this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to thank Mrs Figueiredo for her work on this report.
When we speak about a social Europe, the most important aspect of that is our responsibility to those who are most vulnerable within our society.
I would also call on Members to ensure that they do not unnecessarily harness negative taxation policies that restrict the room for movement of governments and, most importantly of all, to ensure that we invest in the future of our people through education and life-long learning. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Figueiredo for her report, which is both extremely interesting and much-needed.
The motion for a resolution raises a number of important issues, but the problem I should like to highlight is that of poverty.
This is discussed towards the end of the report, but data on the new Member States is lacking.
I propose that a minimum welfare benefit be introduced for EU citizens, which could for example be equivalent to half the highest rate of benefits paid in an EU Member State.
Even if this only amounted to EUR&#160;250 per month, it would provide our citizens with a basic feeling of security, and encourage them to lead a more active life.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us on the social situation in Europe is a glaring distortion of reality.
The text focuses on all of the negative aspects, which we acknowledge still exist, such as social exclusion, unemployment and the existence of pockets of poverty, yet chooses to ignore all of the aspects highlighted by the Commission.
I shall now cite five omissions that I consider very serious; firstly, the report leaves out the fact that during the past decade progress has been made on employment, output growth and cohesion in most of the 25 Member States; secondly, it deliberately ignores the fact that, according to the Commission, the social problems in eight of the ten new Member States are mainly due to the totalitarian regimes that were previously in power; thirdly, there is not a single word on the opportunities available to the new Member States following accession to the EU; fourthly, the report disregards all of the complexity arising from the phenomenon of globalisation; and fifthly the report emphasises an outlook – an erroneous one in our view – that economic dynamism is the enemy of social development.
Symptomatic of the ideological influence pervading the report, moreover, is the fact that nowhere does it mention the proven superiority of the social market economy over planned economic models. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to take this opportunity to underline the importance of the European social model, which is under threat from the Working Hours Directive or the Directive on Services, while the problems of poverty, social exclusion and quality of life are even more acute today in a Europe of 25.
On the forthcoming 22 and 23 March, the Heads of Government will be taking a crucial decision for the future of Europe when they adopt a strategy that will set the economic development agenda for five years.
They cannot be unaware that a winning economic perspective must include high social standards, because these are also essential to a Europe of nations. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the Figueiredo report relates to a matter of supreme importance, namely the social situation in the European Union.
Firstly, paragraph&#160;18 refers to solidarity with the new Member States.
I believe the concept of solidarity should appear in the opening lines of the report, as it is one of the fundamental concepts upon which the European Union is based.
Thirdly, the report notes, and rightly so, that too little attention has been paid to social aspects in the Lisbon strategy.
Finally, paragraph&#160;4 states that social and integration policies are central to citizens’ rights and also to economic development, which is entirely correct. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, social cohesion can be said to have been successfully achieved when there is no section of society left to be simply written off.
No longer must it be tolerated that, as has happened in Germany, the head of the state employment service can get away with calling for jobcentres to stop providing services for older workers in East Germany.
This model was made possible by a social and market economy whose economic basis was productivity and efficiency, and therefore a successful system of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we must strive to re-invigorate.
We should reflect before talking about immigrants’ rights to work while ignoring our own unemployed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I will begin by saying that, in innumerable areas, the report contains congenial positions, and there is no doubt that it is incredibly well intentioned.
The answer is very clear.
The European economy is moving too slowly because we engage too little in research and development.
What we need, in my view, is more stability and fewer stop-gap measures, more certainty and continuity of employment and less public support for major companies, particularly multinationals, which benefit from incentives and tax breaks from the European Union and its Member States, often repaying this by relocating and committing fraud which adversely affects savers.
In this context, we should be continuing to pursue the goal of direct participation in the life of companies, as already stated in the never-applied article 46 of the Italian Constitution – borrowed, moreover, from the Labour Charter of the Italian Social Republic – which recognises the right of workers to collaborate in the management of companies, in the manner and within the limits established by law.
The true reasons for the slump in economic growth and employment are the restrictions in the freedom to engage in business, the rising cost of labour, mushrooming regulation, bureaucracy, increasing redistribution and the influence of the state.
Redistribution breaks the bond between success and affluence.
The more we redistribute in favour of those who, through their own fault, are unsuccessful, the more unsuccessful people we will have.
The correct and only genuine way to improve the social situation is through economic growth.
Only a wealthy society can afford to spend more on social programmes.
We need to cut taxes, clamp down on regulation, and defend the freedom to engage in business.
The rights of diverse groups of citizens must not be allowed to overshadow universal rights, the rights of us all; support for one group must not result in restrictions for another.
The report, as drafted, does not benefit the European Parliament, the European Union, its Member States, or their citizens.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, a much-frequented theme in the new Member States is the reform of the pension system.
In most of these countries, the main pillar continues to be a single pay-as-you-go scheme.
At the same time, this would make it possible to respect the relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization that most of the new countries have ratified.
What is more, the administrative costs of private institutions are several times higher than the costs reported by state-controlled institutions.
The war on unemployment must therefore also be a war on illegal immigrants and on illegal migrant labour.
Though it is true that the text has been improved in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, it is also the case that it retains a tone which is clearly in favour of interventionism, and all the factors that mean economic and social development in the European Union, such as private initiative, the market or competition policy, are forgotten and relegated to second place.
Our first amendment, therefore, is intended to highlight the important role of private initiative in the Union’s development.
And this is the case, for example, in my country, Spain, as has been demonstrated, where over recent years, an economic policy based on the balance of public accounts, tax reductions and the implementation of liberalising reforms in key sectors has led to the creation of five million jobs.
As the High-Level Group chaired by Wim Kok has recognised, the problem stems from the lack of commitment on the part of some Member States to the reforms necessary for implementing strategies, rather than the strategy itself.
Finally, our only intention with the rest of the amendments is for this Parliament to reflect the concern at the problems faced by young people in terms of accessing the labour market, as well as the need to remove the fiscal and administrative barriers faced by European entrepreneurs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the rise in unemployment in the EU, which has now reached nearly 20 million, affects in particular women, people with disabilities and workers who, being over the age of 50, are discriminated against as being too old.
Our Commissioner Špidla is on the receiving end of Mrs Figueiredo continuing assertions to the effect that the Lisbon strategy gives too little weight to the social dimension.
What we need is growth that achieves a balance between economic considerations and the need for job creation, thus making successful social integration possible.
The first reason is the subject matter itself: the fact that growth across the EU has halved in the past three years, and that unemployment now affects 20 million people, constitutes not just an economic disaster but also a gigantic social disaster.
As so often when unemployment rises, the hardest hit are the vulnerable: young people trying to enter the employment market for the first time; young mothers trying to re-enter it; older people trying to stay in it.
We will vote to deliver the Lisbon Agenda, which means voting against the report as it stands. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union's objectives, according to the European Constitution, are to achieve full employment and social progress, combat social exclusion and discrimination and promote social justice and protection.
Just how far away we are from these objectives is illustrated by the information set out in the Commission report: twenty million European citizens are unemployed and seventy million are on the verge of poverty.
Violence against women and inequality between men and women have not disappeared.
When there are such social deficits, we cannot in fact talk about social protection and justice.
The Council and the Commission talk about progress and increasing averages in the various social sectors.
However, the minimum levels of civil and social rights of each citizen defined in the charter are evaluated not by averages, but by personal criteria.
The problems that have been formulated are clearly problems which are discussed in texts and documents presented by the European Commission.
These are texts in which we seek solutions to the problems that genuinely exist in Europe.
It is abundantly clear that Europe needs to grow, just as it is absolutely self-evident that Europe needs social responsibility, and it is quite clear that there are indivisible links between these two elements and therefore neither of them should be taken out of context. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0045/2005) by Mr Sánchez&#160;Presedo, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a Council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences.
The GSP is a key instrument to put trade at the service of development by helping stimulate developing country exports to the European Union.
The current system will be improved in four principal ways.
The new GSP scheme is simpler to comprehend.
The new GSP scheme is a clear example of an integrated approach to trade policy and sustainable development and I am sure will be welcomed by Members here for that reason.
The new incentive for sustainable development and governance will support our commitment to core human and labour rights and environmental protection in the framework of our existing trade policy.
The reformed GSP will be a more effective tool to foster export diversification and economic growth for countries most in need: for example, vulnerable countries like Honduras; poorly diversified economies like Georgia; small islands like Sri Lanka; and landlocked countries like Mongolia.
The new GSP will provide better access for some of the countries worst affected by the tsunami, and we want to accelerate its entry into force on 1 April.
The Commission will complete the revision of the GSP rules of origin as soon as possible.
The Commission is currently working on an impact assessment of the GSP on beneficiary countries during the five-year period from 1999 to 2003 and we should deliver a final report to Parliament by the end of the summer.
The Commission is ready to accept Amendment 47, tabled by the Committee on International Trade, according to which ‘the Commission shall, in close cooperation with Member States, monitor the imports of [some sensitive tuna] products’.
India is one of the countries that bore the brunt of the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster and where 300 million people still live on a dollar a day or less.
On 4 March this year the Council adopted its conclusions on the social dimension of globalisation, which ‘recall its commitment to promote core labour standards and note the importance of the revision of the GSP in this context’.
Furthermore, up to now, El Salvador has not shown any movement towards the ratification and implementation of the two missing ILO Conventions – on freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining.
In conclusion, I believe that the new GSP scheme opens good market access opportunities for developing countries.
It is simpler, it is more predictable and covers a broader range of products.
The European Union imports more products covered by the GSP than all the other developed countries put together and three times more than the second largest importer.
The first GSP regulation of the 21st Century must re-affirm the European Union’s leading role in promoting sustainable development and trade in the world.
The Declaration of the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation, held in Doha in 2001, recognised that international trade could play a more important role in the promotion of economic development and the reduction of poverty.
The rapporteur takes a positive view of the Council’s consultation of Parliament within a procedure in which codecision is not yet applied.
The report proposes that the review of the system in the future should be better organised and more participatory and that Parliament’s role should be enhanced, without changing the balance of powers, although it improves good European governance.
We support Commissioner Mandelson’s initiative to present a revised proposal to bring the application of the Regulation forward to 1 April so that the countries affected by the tsunami can benefit from it as soon as possible.
Even though its method for producing a provisional list for application of GSP + seems appropriate, the truth is that it only includes six countries and leaves out the majority of those that were benefiting from its preferences, and their exclusion is not compensated for by the increase of more than 200 products in the general GSP.
The report has dealt with other future aspects, such as the preservation of the basis for calculation, the extension of sensitive products and taking account of the interests of the ACP countries that are not capable of concluding an EPA.
The scheme of generalised tariff preferences – the subject of our debate today – is a prime example of this.
The amount we spend via this scheme of trade benefits is higher than the total European budget for development cooperation.
We support the new scheme’s proposal for prompt implementation on 1 April for the countries affected by the tsunami, but we are also arguing in favour of a transitional period for the countries that are not yet ready.
The review in 2008 of the GSP plus could prove to be a sound alternative for this.
It offers trade benefits to the countries that are most in need of them.
In addition, the countries that perform well in terms of human rights, good governance, labour legislation and sustainable development, are given even more benefits through what is termed the GSP plus programme, intended as an extra incentive for governments to carry out serious and sustainable work in further stabilising and developing their countries.
We therefore call for reform of the rules of origin and, above all, for adequate technical assistance to help countries examine how they can meet the conditions.
GSP plus should give governments extra incentives to practise good governance, respect human rights and so on, but the Commission only wants to grant the scheme to countries which already comply with it.
The report therefore argues that countries which will comply with the conditions for GSP plus in the next few years will be able to make use of the extra benefits as soon as they meet the criteria.
The subject matter is complex, and I am pleased to have been able to reach a compromise with the other groups and the different disciplines.
I hope that the report will be adopted in this form and that the Council and the Commission can accept the recommendations.
The Commission wanted to discuss this report earlier for the benefit of the countries that were hit by the tsunami disaster.
I hope that those countries will also actually benefit from this scheme.
The good news is that the assessment which we were waiting for has finally been completed. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to begin by greeting Mr Mandelson.
The generalised system of preferences has been an important tool for supporting developing countries by encouraging them to participate in world trade.
This openness arises from the EU’s responsibility as the biggest trading bloc in the world, and is in line with the positions adopted by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the Doha Process.
At the same time, I applaud the EU’s rapid response to the tragic impact of the tsunami.
There is a strong possibility that subjecting the poorest countries in the world to the simultaneous combined effect of the liberalisation of textile exports from China and the insufficiently selective treatment of the major textile powers such as India, within the framework of preferential treatment, will ultimately destroy these economies and regions.
It is essential that in Europe, too, the opening up of the textile market to imports from low cost countries should be reciprocated by the countries benefiting and should be accompanied by the gradual adoption of fairer trade rules in social and environmental terms and as regards intellectual property, as proposed by the High Level Group on textiles.
Last year, this system accounted for more than EUR 500 billion worth of exports from developing countries to Europe.
This report lays down the basic principles for the next ten years.
I remain convinced, though, that this proposal for a regulation is too narrow in its interpretation of the objectives that were prescribed by the Commission in the past.
After all, provision was made for a more effective system, which better accommodates the needs of the beneficiary countries and, above all, the poorest countries, which really need this system for their trade and development.
A commitment was made to offer more clarity, more flexibility and, above all, more transparency, including a procedure for swift reviews, if necessary.
Regrettably, the majority rejected a number of the NGOs’ amendments – which the Greens supported – with a view to extending the number of countries entitled to aid.
In actual fact, it looks as if the great spirit of self-sacrifice in the EU countries has been converted into old-style EU protectionism.
For example, another country hit by the tsunami, namely Sri&#160;Lanka, is affected because its clothes production only constitutes one link in the manufacturing chain.
If we go back to first principles, the United Kingdom is the fourth largest economy in the world, the third largest trading nation in the world and the head of a Commonwealth with 30% of the world’s population in it.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 4, 7, 34, 43, 45 and 47; and Amendments 3, 4, 16 and 21 from the Committee on Development.
The Commission would find it difficult to accept Amendments 3, 15 and 18.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51 or 52; nor can it accept Amendments 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22 or 23 from the Committee on Development. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; As announced yesterday, I have received from the Council a corrigendum to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the directives establishing a new organisational structure for financial services committees.
In her letter dated today, the chairwoman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has announced that the committee voted in favour of adopting the corrigendum. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as we are going to endorse this procedure, I would simply like to draw the House’s attention to the importance of this document.
It is an agreement on first reading in an area of codecision.
I hope that Parliament will be able to adopt a report on this very quickly because we need additional weapons to stand up to the Council and Commission in such cases of agreement on first reading. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to say that there are some translation problems with certain languages.
Accordingly, I ask the Bureau to use the French version on point 5, and the Portuguese version on point 8 and on Recital M. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
These standards are essential if we are to ensure fair and balanced conditions and to allow opportunities for newcomers, particularly small businesses, to enter the market.
Conditions of access to the network must not distinguish between network users of different sizes, given that this could lead to unfair competition and would in any case prevent gas consumers from deriving equitable benefit from the internal natural gas market.
With the measures that have been adopted, users requesting access to the network enjoy enough transparency to be able to carry out their business, given that, otherwise, business opportunities arising from the development of the internal market in the short or long term could not be exploited.
Accordingly, I voted in favour of the compromise amendments (block 1) and I am delighted that the regulation can now be adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this commotion, it is difficult to explain in a few words that in the proposal which I tabled on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to reject the De Rossa report does nevertheless recognise that the Commission proposal contains a number of positive elements, which it has never been my intention to do away with.
The request should rather be seen as a message to the Council of Ministers, in which 22 countries adhere to the rules as enshrined in Regulation 1408/71, and there are three Member States, namely the United Kingdom, Finland and Sweden, that have been unable to support them.
The June List wants to see a proper review of the growing influence of EU rules within social and labour market policy.
Europe must also provide the opportunity for its citizens to live, work and move freely, without prejudice to their rights.
Regulation 1408/71 plays an important role in meeting this objective.
I therefore voted in favour of this recommendation for a second reading on the Council common position.
Regulation 1408/71, which entered into force over thirty years ago, defines the basis on which benefits are to be provided to citizens who move from one Member State to another.
The revision of the current regulation contains several new provisions aimed at enhancing social security rights and makes it possible to ascertain whether the citizen remains entitled to specific benefits provided for by their Member State of origin, and which are therefore exportable, or whether an equivalent benefit is available in the citizen's new Member State of residence.
Nevertheless, I recognise the need to establish bases whereby citizens of one Member State can move to another without losing all of the guarantees and social benefits to which they were previously entitled.
The notion is disgracefully rejected by certain countries, namely Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, which object to the principle of paying benefits outside their territories (Article 42 of the Treaty) to the detriment of workers who return to their countries of origin.
The Court of Justice must therefore issue a ruling on this matter, in accordance with the Commission’s statement.
It is obviously imperative that we take this opportunity to retain the ability to revise and reinforce safety aspects of air traffic management, to facilitate the establishment of cross-border functional airspace blocks and to create a level playing field for training services across the European Union.
The fact that the report before us received a clearly favourable vote in the parliamentary committee demonstrates both the highly technical nature of the proposal and the adoption of most of its provisions.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .– The directive on the Community Air Traffic Controller Licence completes the 'puzzle' of capitalist restructurings in air transport in order to apply the 'Single European Sky', within the framework of the more general anti-grass roots policy of the European Union, by attacking the wage and social rights of the workers and guaranteeing huge profits for capital and painful repercussions on flight safety and countries' sovereign rights.
Accident investigations, airworthiness controls of aircraft and companies and the issuing of air traffic control diplomas and licences have already been transferred to monopoly groups.
The work that it does, the credit that it grants and the terms in which it does this, the technical support that it provides – all of these elements contribute to the Bank’s work being geared towards development, which is something that we endorse.
It is also true that the highly political nature of the Bank’s activities and the way in which it addresses the planned objectives, justify its presentation to Parliament.
Both the investments that it has made and the investments for which it has been the catalyst reaffirm its key role in turning Europe into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
The dynamism that the Bank puts into its activities, particularly as regards the private sector, has enabled new sources of funding to be raised, by means of capital risk instruments and the granting of guarantees, for example.
This approach provides us with the necessary guarantee that, within the EU’s institutional structure, the EIB will continue to play a crucial role in financing small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), thereby contributing to an economy that is sound, that creates more and better jobs and that is a catalyst for sustainable growth.
Accordingly, the EIB should place emphasis on increasing the granting of credits to small businesses, on defining precise rules as regards assessing its projects, on improving SME access to risk capital and on encouraging access to its activities on the part of local and regional financial partners.
However, we voted against the demand for the Commission to withdraw its proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, partly because the demand is unrealistic and partly because we believe that we can influence the content of the directive in the European Parliament.
The report makes a critical diagnosis, supported by figures that amply demonstrate the social inequalities that still exist in Europe, which have been exacerbated by the recent enlargement.
I endorse the need, flagged up in the report, to: - ‘prioritise tackling the issues of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion’ and to create ‘long-term quality jobs backed up by workers' rights’; - keep this situation in mind when the broad guidelines for economic policies are set out, namely the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, the revision of the Lisbon Strategy and the decisions on the Financial Perspectives and the Structural Funds for 2007-2013; and - support the structural development of the least-favoured regions, in particular the outermost regions.
The elements in question were as follows: - Removing criticism of the Lisbon Strategy’s contribution towards accelerating liberalisations/privatisations, the flexibility of labour and job insecurity; - Emphasising that, despite current problems of unemployment and social exclusion, the Lisbon Strategy, without any revision, is important to the future; - Removing references to the need to review current economic and financial policies, in particular those of the Stability and Growth Pact, the Lisbon Strategy, the internal market and competition policy, and the emphasis on achieving a high employment rate and long-term quality jobs backed up by workers’ rights; - Rejecting, along with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, our request to the Commission to remove the proposal for a directive on completing the internal market for services ... &#160;&#160; Relocations, unemployment, social decline.
This disaster is the outcome of the Europe of Brussels and Maastricht, which, if you remember the promises of 1992, was supposed to bring prosperity, growth and employment.
The worst is to come, however, with the European Constitution institutionalising the principles of world free trade.
There are those who believe more that the State is the most effective factor in creating social equality, yet there are others who believe that the right model to follow is one of freedom regulated by a State that interferes less, but is more rigorous in enforcing the law.
I therefore endorse the adoption of measures aimed at supporting the family, reducing inequalities between countries, resolving the birth rate problem, analysing the impact of the directive on services in the labour market, encouraging vocational training and setting up small and medium-sized businesses.
Unlike the rapporteur, I do not believe that social problems in Europe can be solved without taking into account price stability, cost reduction and budget deficit reduction.
Rather, I feel that encouraging private initiative should be the driving force behind any economy and behind solutions to a country’s social problems.
This is a pity because the issue is a serious one that deserved more suitable recommendations, in other words more realistic, objective and balanced recommendations. &#160;&#160; .– The explanatory statement on the social situation in the ΕU records, with substantiating evidence, the results of the anti-grass roots policy of the ΕU and of free competition, with the increase in poverty, unemployment and insecurity and the maximisation of the profitability of big business.
The strengthening of this report with anti-labour and reactionary amendments by the majority of the conservative forces in plenary of the European Parliament shows the negative correlation of power which exists in the European Community when it comes to grass-roots rights and demands.
The NPT review conference will have to strike a balance between the three pillars: non-proliferation, nuclear disarmament and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
The Council is currently working on a common position that will make a positive contribution to the review conference.
So far as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is concerned, the European Union presidency has expressed its deep concern at the country’s announcement on 10 February 2005 that it possessed nuclear weapons.
We reaffirm that the European Union is resolutely in favour of the six-party talks process as a way of finding a solution to this crisis.
Respect for international obligations, both on nuclear issues and in the field of human rights, is vital if the European Union is to develop bilateral relations with that country.
So far as Iran is concerned, the Paris Agreement is now being strictly applied, with the total suspension of all enrichment-related activities and all reprocessing activities without exception; this has been verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Negotiations on long-term arrangements began in December in the three working groups concerned with political and security questions, nuclear questions and issues of economic cooperation and technology, as well as the steering committee.
I would like to add that, at the same time, negotiations on the trade and cooperation agreement and on a political agreement resumed in January 2005.
However, it is important to remain vigilant so as to ensure that, under IAEA supervision, Iran maintains a total suspension of its activities, without exception, for as long as the negotiations on long-term arrangements continue, total suspension being the condition for their continuance and completion.
The Commission agrees with the Council that the Non-proliferation Treaty must be preserved by every means and even strengthened if possible.
This point is made in the EU strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction adopted by the Council in December 2003 and which the Commission, in close cooperation with the Council, is helping to implement.
So far as the instrument for stability in external relations is concerned, specific reference was made to disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The Commission’s proposal is currently being examined by the budgetary authority.
We hope it will result in more resources for promoting the European Union’s activities in the field of disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the period 2007-2013.
More specifically, so far as the NPT is concerned, these financial resources should support actions to strengthen the treaty’s three pillars: non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation in the safe use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
In the context of world partnership, the Commission believes that the commitment it gave at the Kananaskis G8 summit in July 2002 against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related matters is particularly important.
That involves implementing projects that will really enable us to help third countries to collect nuclear or radioactive material and make it secure and/or eliminate it, effectively controlling exports or preventing illegal trafficking in materials and equipment that might be used to manufacture nuclear devices, ensuring that specialists and scientists who were previously engaged in arms-related activities are retrained and, finally, contributing to the risk-free development of nuclear applications.
This pilot scheme currently serves to finance an exploratory study under the direction of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (Unidir) and the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI); it will help the Commission, in cooperation with Parliament and the Council, to press ahead with the programming of new financing instruments.
The Commission expects to present the results of the study in November at a conference of parliamentarians and Member State delegations made up of representatives of the national parliaments and governments, to be held at the European Parliament.
Concerning Iran, as you know the European Union has just resumed talks with that country based on, and following on from, the Paris Agreement between Iran, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, with the support of the European Union’s high representative.
That agreement and the subsequent monitoring of the implementation of Iran’s voluntary decision to suspend all enrichment and reprocessing-related activities led the European Union to resume its policy of differentiated and progressive engagement with Iran.
We have therefore resumed negotiations on an agreement covering such sensitive political issues as, on the one hand, the promotion of human rights, fighting terrorism, the Middle East peace process, weapons of mass destruction and, on the other hand, trade and cooperation.
The Commission is negotiating on the trade and cooperation-related aspects in good faith, fully taking into account the global context of the nuclear talks and the progress made in that field.
We think that should make a decisive contribution to our collective effort by opening up the way to sustainable relations and long-term cooperation between the European Union and Iran.
We are in fact convinced that this agreement and the prospects of joining the World Trade Organisation could bolster the necessary economic and social reforms in Iran, thus paving the way for the country’s full reintegration into the international community.
The recent visit to Pyongyang by a Chinese envoy gives us hope that talks may resume; China’s diplomatic efforts deserve our full support.
The position adopted by the European Union is not to over react to virulent statements from Pyongyang.
We will continue to insist that the DPRK must fully comply with all its international non-proliferation commitments, in particular the Non-proliferation Treaty and the IAEA guarantee agreement, and that it must abandon any nuclear weapons programme completely.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Nuclear Arms Non-Proliferation Treaty is of fundamental importance in terms of the European Union’s security and defence policy.
There will, in May, be a conference to examine compliance with the Treaty, and we think it necessary and proper that an official delegation from this House should participate in it.
It will, at this conference, be of the utmost importance that the Member States of the European Union should actually put together a common position on this matter and be united in putting it forward.
Although we, in the European Union, possess no powers or means whereby we might in any way enforce the reversal of this decision, we do expect North Korea to resume dialogue with its partners, China in particular, which may, in the medium or long term, make a peaceful resolution of this conflict possible.
The three-way talks between foreign ministers – a means of diplomatic conflict resolution in which we expect our partners, including the United States, to play an active part – are intended to help us reach a common solution to the Iran problem, one that will do justice to its interests and to those of the European Community. &#160;&#160; .
Recent developments have already alluded to this and have illustrated the continuing need for an international treaty to combat the spread of nuclear arms technology.
Investing in the Non-Proliferation Treaty is still a priority.
Consequently, the Review Conference scheduled this spring should mainly be seized as an opportunity to reconfirm the Non-Proliferation Treaty’s crucial role, including the objective of ultimate general nuclear disarmament.
Naturally, the developments in Iran and North Korea are crucial in this connection.
Needless to say, these are all issues which undermine the credibility of this important Treaty.
Developments since the previous Review Conference have also shown that the Treaty must face up to new challenges.
We cannot, therefore, see the Non-Proliferation Treaty in isolation from improving regional security structures in the Middle East and in South and East Asia.
Finally, there is the risk – and that is a new threat – of nuclear technology, or even nuclear material, ending up in the hands of what we refer to as non-state actors, in other words terrorist organisations, which could, for example, by means of a ‘dirty’ bomb, do an awful lot of damage.
We cannot leave this matter to the United States alone. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the holding of the Review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in a few weeks’ time is very timely, for the emphasis over the past few months has been on real, and sometimes supposed, weapons of mass destruction, so much so that the attention for nuclear proliferation would have slackened had it not been for the developments in North Korea and Iran which have come as a wake-up call.
There is a real risk of the non-proliferation scheme being eroded to such an extent that it loses all meaning, with all the risks of a renewed, unbridled arms race that this entails, in a world made far more chaotic and far more dangerous by international terrorism.
As I said, this debate and the joint resolution that is before us are very timely.
My group is urging both the EU institutions and the Member States to show a united front during the Review Conference, and argue forcefully in favour of new initiatives in terms of disarmament, in general, and nuclear disarmament, in particular.
We would also like to urge all third member states and all European Union Member States that have not done so, to ratify the additional protocols to the International Atomic Energy Agency as a matter of urgency.
In the same vein, it is of the utmost importance that the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty should enter into effect as quickly as possible.
We would therefore call on the US to abandon those plans and join us in investing all energy in reviving the efforts towards non-proliferation and disarmament. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2005 is going to be a decisive year in terms of whether nuclear disarmament is going to be achieved as a policy for peace; this primarily has to do with Iran and North Korea, but also with Pakistan, India, Israel, Europe and the USA.
Let us establish security through effective multilateralism, that is, through international conventions such as the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the reinforcement of such international organisations as the IAEA or the UN.
The May conference on review of the Non-Proliferation Treaty has to face up to extremely pressing issues of global security, such as the states in crisis regions seeking to acquire atomic weapons, the black market in nuclear materials and the terrorist groups that are trying to get their hands on them.
I appeal to the European Union to assume an active role as a stakeholder, not only in the run-up to the conference, but also in its negotiations.
I appeal to the Council and the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to take a progressive line.
I would like to say something about Iran, and the way the situation in the Middle East is developing.
Finally, and very briefly, let me say something about ‘mini-nukes’.
These are the countries that feel they are the leaders of everyone else and are trying to impose their interests by force rather than by logic.
It was, however, the alibi for a brutish invasion .... &#160;&#160; Mr President, the worrying developments in Iran and North Korea compel us, in the European Union, to speak with one voice.
The Treaty should be reinterpreted in such a way as to ensure that high-risk states can no longer indulge in any nuclear enrichment and processing whatever. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proliferation of nuclear weapons in Iraq and North Korea is a threat not just to the regions in which those States are located, but also to the whole of the planet, in particular when we are talking about developing countries which could be using their resources for other purposes.
Furthermore, if they take this course, they may be emulated by other countries of the region, by neighbouring countries, and this would therefore reverse the tendency towards non-proliferation adopted by some 20 countries over recent years.
Five years ago, the world was celebrating the historic consensus reached with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), a significant landmark for world peace, as Kofi Annan put it.
The United States and other nuclear weapon states that are signatories to the Treaty have, thus far, failed to honour their commitments to disarm, nor have they given any signs that they intend to reduce their nuclear arsenals.
At this very moment, the United States has 480 nuclear weapons stationed in Europe and has yet to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty.
The upshot of which is that other states party to the Treaty do not feel they have a binding commitment to comply with the NPT following the invasion of Iraq on the false pretext of the existence of weapons of mass destruction.
Additionally, we know that there is a high risk of nuclear materials falling into the hands of terrorists, often completely out of state control.
Such galloping proliferation can only be prevented if the international community channels all its efforts into effective multilateral solutions.
The EU must play a key role in making the Treaty work as a permanent bureau, which would entail coordination with EU nuclear weapon states if there is to be genuinely coordinated action within the terms of the foreign and security policy and the security and defence policy.
Despite this it could be useful if we could move forward in at least three areas.
Secondly: the manufacture and use of nuclear fuels must be brought under international supervision.
Britain and France should lead by example and unilaterally dismantle their illegal nuclear warheads, and the EU and its Member States must present an action plan and timetable for achieving a nuclear-free Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, nuclear proliferation in North Korea is a source of great concern.
Against this backdrop, aggressive statements from Washington are not helpful.
Instead of the Bush administration’s recent sabre-rattling, I believe North Korea should be offered a political and diplomatic agreement as a for monitoring of its nuclear arsenal.
In my view, therefore, the issue of nuclear disarmament is everyone’s business and does not merely concern the two countries now under discussion. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
Next May in New York, at the conference on the non-proliferation treaty, no further concessions or compromises can or should be made.
In particular, the possibility of reactionary and in many ways obscurantist regimes, such as those of Iran and North Korea, coming into possession of nuclear weapons must be prevented.
In 1945 in Japan, the atomic bomb wiped out two cities, with consequences which even today are having an impact on the lives of millions of citizens and the surrounding environment.
In 2005, the mayors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the two cities destroyed 60 years ago, are launching an international campaign for nuclear disarmament via their programme, which calls for the elimination of all nuclear weapons within 15 years.
Europe, which has every interest in promoting international security and strategic stability, must ensure its voice is heard in the international community, setting out in clear terms the way ahead towards a gradual reduction in nuclear arms deployment and a consequent progressive disarmament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it was once said by the former NATO Secretary-General Manfred Wörner – whom we lost far too early – that once technical know-how in matters concerning such things as the manufacture of atom bombs was in the world, there would never be any getting rid of it.
A cursory look at the map reveals that, in one region, and linked to one another by land, Pakistan, India and China are in possession of nuclear weapons, and soon Korea and Iran will be too.
There are land links between all these countries and their interests collide with one another, with all the resultant potential for blockades and dangerous situations.
In a region such as that, can countries such as Indonesia or the Philippines, in the long term, refrain from doing likewise?
If Korea and Iran get their way, then it seems to me quite clear that there will be no stopping them, and that leads me to conclude that we have to endorse the line that has been advanced here with regard to Iran.
We should give the three foreign ministers and the European Union a chance.
Others may know more about this than I do, but I do believe that we have to be aware of the consequences resulting from geography and the structure of these countries.
Any important developments there have been have occurred outside the framework of the Treaty, or even in spite of it.
Unless new and stricter control mechanisms are put in place, there is absolutely no point in continuing to talk in twentieth century terms, as though the countries that have the capacity to build nuclear weapons were still parties to the Treaty.
On its own, the Treaty will get us nowhere.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, after the end of the cold war, the problem of nuclear proliferation seemed to have receded, but today it is once again reverting to centre stage.
At the same time, a nuclear Iran would destabilise the Middle East, creating huge security problems in Europe’s own backyard.
The European security strategy is right to consider the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as the second most serious global threat after international terrorism.
Moreover, everyone knows that where rogue or bankrupt states are involved, or where monitoring is inadequate, the two problems are closely connected.
International coordination is needed to combat nuclear arms proliferation, and to increase police control and legal methods for monitoring, based on Dr ElBaradei’s seven steps, among which I would mention the five-year moratorium on new facilities, the unequivocal commitment to disarm by the five officially-recognised nuclear states, and the objective of making the Middle East a nuclear-free zone.
The relationship between the European Union and the United States is crucial for the effective combating of nuclear proliferation.
Europe and the United States are complementary.
Several top Iranian nuclear negotiators had previously admitted that the clerical regime was not at such a point in October 2003 when a nuclear agreement was signed with Europe’s big three.
In this light, serious consideration must be given to the notion that Iran’s nuclear threat and its sponsorship of terror can only be halted through the toppling of this regime by Iranians and democratic opposition groups such as the National Council of Resistance of Iran. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and, associated therewith, the prevention of their getting into the hands of terrorist groups, is without a doubt one of the main concerns of the international community of states.
For this reason, we need to give special attention to what is going on in North Korea and in Iran, and I welcome the line taken by this House and my own group on the need to make it plain to Iran that negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement cannot be concluded until such time as there is conclusive evidence that its nuclear programme is peaceful.
It is also clear that we have to express our concern at the supply by Russia of nuclear fuel rods to Iran.
I therefore call on the EU, represented in this instance by the Commission and the Council, to do everything possible to facilitate the resumption of the six-party talks, a process that is still open despite North Korea’s most recent statement.
In humanitarian terms too, it should be in North Korea’s interests to concentrate its resources on improving the supply of food to its people, rather than on disproportionate rearmament, not to mention on becoming a nuclear threat. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that the non-proliferation policy is in crisis is not a matter of doubt, and of disarmament policy scarcely anything is now to be heard.
The efforts on our part that they deserve must have three objectives: we must strengthen the non-proliferation treaty; the European Union must take part in the six-party talks; the arms embargo on China must remain in place; and we must promote democracy throughout the world.
I also take the view that we should be having this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was in agreement with what the previous speaker said – until he got to his last sentence.
Let us then try to get our Chinese friends to make a to North Korea. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, international terrorism, organised crime and the unpredictable behaviour of a few states mean that the risk of a nuclear conflict is still considerable.
The control capacity of the International Atomic Energy Agency should therefore be stepped up as a matter of urgency.
The US, Russia and France have started developing a new generation of nuclear weapons.
If not, all declarations in this respect will remain hollow rhetoric. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
While Iran aspires to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement with the European Union, we, who are the European Union, want to see Iran acting within the parameters set by the International Atomic Energy Agency and complying with its requirements.
If we can actually manage to get it across to Iran that there is a package formed by a partnership and cooperation agreement on the one hand and compliance with the international community’s requirements in respect of the peaceful use of nuclear energy on the other, and that this package is indivisible, then we can get a result.
This is a country that over the last 12 to 18 months has engaged in massive and irreversible steps on the road to economic reform, in particular in industry and agriculture.
However, the nuclear crisis is still hanging over us.
Several weeks ago, the North Korean Ambassador to Berlin spoke to Parliament's new delegation for relations with the Korean Peninsula and indicated that North Korea would welcome our participation, as would the Chinese and the South Koreans.
In our joint resolution we are asking the Commission and the Council to investigate the possibility of the European Union being part of that programme.
My second point is not on the plutonium programme – North Korea has stated that it now has nuclear weapons – but on one of the causes of the crisis, which was the claim by the United States that North Korea had a highly enriched uranium programme.
The Council has chosen not to pay the EUR 4 million to South Korea as suspension costs for that programme, which therefore threatens its future.
Unfortunately, things seem to be moving in the opposite direction.
As Mr&#160;Wiersma and Mr&#160;Brok commented, there is a danger that we are entering a new era of nuclear arms proliferation – a fresh nuclear arms race in very sensitive regions where the ultimate consequence of proliferation could be actual use.
I agree with those who say that in the case of Iran we need to pursue the negotiations already in progress vigorously, in order to convince the Iranians that there is an alternative to developing nuclear arms, and that the prospect of a partnership with Europe and of an economic cooperation agreement is more valuable than any development of nuclear weapons, both in terms of Iran’s security and of its economic development.
North Korea is of course even more complicated, as that country has to some extent already been ostracised by the international community.
I totally agree with those who have said, as Mr Ford has just done, that it would also be wrong for the European Union to act as a provider of funds without a political role.
China is perhaps the only country to have any real leverage over the North Korean regime.
In any case, it is crucial that the discussions concerning the Non-Proliferation Treaty should not essentially end in failure, in a kind of half-hearted status quo.
I believe that this is another area where the European Union must be very vigilant.
The European Union must, therefore, speak loud and clear at the NPT conference, and act, both in its negotiations with Iran and in the discussions with Korea, to which we must be a party, to make our voice heard.
They are also an indication of the importance of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and, above all, the need to maintain it and even to reinforce it.
We are at present working with the Council to secure the necessary funding to implement the Union’s policies in the areas of non-proliferation and disarmament.
As an indication of the Commission’s commitment in this respect, I would like to refer to an agreement recently concluded during the Cotonou review, which now incorporates, as a vital element, a non-proliferation clause, intended to strengthen multilateral agreements and export controls. &#160;&#160; I have received seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The debate is closed.
Voting will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next items are the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Lebanon. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Council is following the grave political crisis in Lebanon closely and with great concern.
This crisis, which was triggered by the three-year extension of President Lahoud’s term of office imposed by Syria, culminated in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and ten other innocent civilians.
The challenge that Lebanon is facing needs to be met with unity and calm, and respect for the two principles for which Mr&#160;Hariri fought throughout his life: Lebanon’s independence and sovereignty.
The Council bodies held an initial exchange of views on the Lebanese crisis on 4&#160;March, and revisited this issue this morning in the presence of Mr&#160;Roed-Larsen, the United Nations special envoy responsible for the implementation of Resolution&#160;1559.
The Union therefore supports the United Nations commission of inquiry and intends to keep up pressure on the Lebanese authorities to carry out a thorough investigation.
Furthermore, it is important to support the holding of free and fair elections.
The European Union will be willing to provide assistance in this respect, in particular by sending a team of election observers if the new Lebanese Government so wishes.
Lastly, we have to keep up pressure on all concerned to achieve full and immediate implementation of Resolution 1559, which calls for complete and immediate withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon.
We were shocked and saddened by the appalling terrorist attack perpetrated in Beirut on 14&#160;February, which took the lives of the former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and of many other victims, while over a hundred people were seriously injured.
It was the most devastating attack in Lebanon since the 1975-1990 civil war.
Mr&#160;Hariri was one of the main architects of the 1989 Taif Agreement, which marked the end of the civil war in Lebanon.
We worked closely with Mr&#160;Hariri and his government.
Negotiations on an association agreement were concluded during his term of office, and an interim trade agreement came into force in March 2003.
Mr&#160;Hariri also fully supported the dialogue on the European Neighbourhood Policy, which also covered Lebanon.
Over the last few weeks, following the death of Mr&#160;Hariri, thousands of demonstrators have protested against Syria’s military presence in their country, in defiance of a government ban.
In the face of the unrelenting pressure following the assassination of Mr&#160;Hariri, the Lebanese Prime Minister Omar&#160;Karami and his government resigned on 28&#160;February after an extraordinary parliamentary debate on the political situation following Mr&#160;Hariri’s death.
The Commission hopes that calm will prevail during this period and that channels of communication between the various political groups will be kept open.
The elections must be held in accordance with a free and fair electoral process, without any foreign interference or influence, and under the sovereign control of the Lebanese authorities.
These elections could mark a turning point in the return of Lebanon to full independence and sovereignty.
We also envisage, should it be necessary, other means of providing support to guarantee an open and free electoral process.
At present, we are making preparations for an exploratory technical mission to Lebanon.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union attaches the greatest importance to the full implementation by all parties concerned of UN Security Council Resolution 1559, whose objectives we firmly support: free and fair elections without foreign interference, the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon, the disbanding and disarmament of all militias and the control of the government over all Lebanese territory.
Some of these demands have been conveyed to Lebanon over the years in key European Union messages.
The European Union fully supports the work of the UN Secretary-General.
On 2&#160;March the Commission presented a report on Lebanon giving a wide-ranging overall view of the political, economic and institutional situation, and also of the state of EU-Lebanon relations.
This report will provide a basis for work on the action plan for partnership with the neighbouring countries, which will include important priorities such as a closer political dialogue and greater cooperation in a variety of areas.
In Lebanon and in other partner countries, the progress made under the European Neighbourhood Policy will reflect their own efforts and their own successes, with the active support of the Union, of course.
In order to take account of recent political developments in Lebanon, the Commission has recommended that the timetable for the next stage of our work and consultation with the Lebanese authorities on the action plan should be linked to developments in that country’s situation.
It goes without saying that we need to know how the situation is evolving before we move forward.
At the same time, we are pursuing our discussions with Parliament and the Council on the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, which, with effect from 2007, will enable us to match our political ambitions with the necessary financial resources.
We hope to have a result before the end of this year, which will allow us to start the planning process for 2007.
It is clear that one of the most obvious conclusions must be the withdrawal of Syrian forces from Lebanon, which must be immediate and must also include the secret services.
There can be no excuse for failing to comply with the terms of United Nations Resolution 1559 and Syria must refrain from interfering in Lebanon’s internal affairs.
As Mr Michel has said, it is clear that free elections must be held in Lebanon without any type of pressure, and we in our political group are pleased with the Commissioner’s comments to the effect that a technical mission is going to be sent to Lebanon with a view to preparing a European Union mission of electoral observers.
We also believe that it is absolutely essential that there be a committee to investigate the circumstances surrounding the murder of the former Prime Minister in an independent manner.
I would like to end by saying that the European Union – as the President-in-Office of the Council and the representative of the Commission have said – must advocate the existence of a democratic, independent and sovereign Lebanon, and the instruments available to us by means of the neighbourhood policy and the association agreement offer us a good picture of the form this relationship may take.
The future of Lebanon can only be the result of a democratic process, based on respect for human rights, with a first step being a decision to forge ahead with parliamentary elections in May.
All parts of Lebanon’s complex society must feel they are involved in this process and in the protection of their country’s unity and territorial integrity.
With regard to Syria, it is a vital country in the Middle East as a whole, a country which can and must opt unreservedly for democracy, for the fight against terrorism and for a constructive role in the solution of the Israel-Palestine conflict.
Only respect for law in international relations and for democracy in internal affairs can guarantee peace, stability and prosperity across the Middle East as a whole.
In this context, the European Union must redouble its efforts, enhance the effectiveness of its political role and increase and re-focus the economic resources deployed to achieve these aims. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, since our debate two weeks ago, there have been constant changes in the situation in Lebanon in reaction to the pressure – as everyone knows and has commented – brought to bear by a people who are almost entirely united, regardless of their origin or religion, and who are continuing to demand their freedom to live and their freedom of thought.
After the resignation of the Karami government and the joint declarations by Presidents al-Assad and Lahoud on the withdrawal of Syrian troops, there were still tens of thousands of people demonstrating yesterday in Martyrs Square – now rechristened Freedom Square – to express their will and to keep up the full weight of pressure on political figures necessary if a genuine democratic process is to be set in train.
I found this latter part of his speech particularly disturbing because it expressed a desire, which I hope is a minority view, to oppose the very fragile resumption of peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine.
I hope that the Council will not need to go that far, as I would like to continue to believe that the enormous desire for peace will win the day. &#160;&#160; My group will be happy to sign and vote for the resolution drafted this morning, which sets out a number of views that are extremely important for the European Parliament.
You have also expounded and supported those views yourselves, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Michel.
In fact, given that provision is made for this in the Taif Agreement, why should the security services be excluded from the withdrawal plan?
There are therefore a lot of hopes riding on this situation, hopes that I am sure this resolution will encourage. &#160;&#160; . – The position held by Parliament and the EU with regard to events in Lebanon should strike a balance between clarity and responsibility.
It is this responsibility that has led my group to request a separate vote on paragraphs 6 and 7 of the compromise resolution.
The withdrawal to the Bekaa Valley, as laid down in the Taif agreements, is, by objective standards, a laudable step and the demand for an end to any foreign interference cannot only be aimed at one country.
This is particularly true of the latter, which gave tacit approval to the Syrian presence in Lebanon for years and years, and yet now, with the strongest military presence in the region, approaches Syria with all the subtlety of a bull in a china shop.
Let Europe provide an alternative to the policies of blindness and force in the region. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, that Syria is playing a game in Lebanon with the international community is evident from both President Assad’s parliamentary speech last Saturday and his agreements yesterday with his Lebanese counterpart, Mr Lahud.
It clearly demands the total and immediate withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanese territory.
Given the seriousness of the situation in Lebanon, I hope that the Council and the Commission will deliberately obstruct those forces in Syria, Lebanon and Iran that do not want to know of a fully-fledged Lebanese state sovereignty, or like any political settlement between Israel and its closest Arab neighbours.
The catalyst for this political uncertainty was undoubtedly the killing of the Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri.
We all know of the tragic civil war that engulfed Lebanon between 1975 and 1990.
However, the bottom line is that there are still 15&#160;000 Syrian troops in Lebanon.
President Bashar al-Assad specifically recognised that Syria would not stay in Lebanon once the Lebanese people did not want them there.
In the broader political field, the European Union and Syria have yet to agree on a new EU-Syria economic association agreement.
I urge the Council presidency to work towards finalising this arrangement as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Lebanon has become destabilised because Syrian troops have been present in the country for 29&#160;years.
To put it quite bluntly, the latter exert an influence on the internal situation in the country.
The fact that paramilitary, or, more accurately, terrorist organisations are stationed in Lebanon is a further problem the country faces.
I am astonished that the Parliament resolution no longer refers to the Lebanon-based Hezbollah organisation as a terrorist organisation, as it did in its original version.
We should call a spade a spade, and call terrorists terrorists. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my outrage at and condemnation of the appalling attack that took the life of Rafik Hariri and 14 other innocent civilians.
The international community must remain active and vigilant, so as to ensure that the forthcoming parliamentary elections scheduled for the spring are held in democratic and transparent conditions.
These elections will give an indication of the commitment – or lack of it – of the parties concerned to respond to the demands of the international community.
The Council should perhaps take the initiative of organising a peace conference on Lebanon, with a view to taking advantage of the climate currently prevailing in the Middle East, which favours the settlement of long-standing conflicts.
The European Union has a duty to participate in the peace process for the region and to advance the democratic cause, ‘without complacency or arrogance’, as Michel Barnier, France’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, put it.
Syria must be able to withdraw from Lebanon without losing face, but the redeployment of its troops cannot be limited to the Bekaa plain if the timetable for permanent withdrawal has still not been established.
The European Parliament therefore needs to pay particular attention to keeping up pressure on Syria to respect its international commitments.
The shadow of war is still hanging over Beirut, but, at the same time, Lebanon’s opposition has never seemed so united.
I would not like to conclude without offering my condolences and expressing my feelings of sympathy and friendship to Mrs&#160;Hariri, who I am sure will also be a protagonist in Lebanon’s future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are virtually unanimous at the moment.
Certain members are recommending a little more gentle education for the Hezbollah delinquents, but the fact is that we are about to vote on a resolution which coincides with the appeal of the 140 Syrian intellectuals to President Assad, and with that made by a further 33 intellectuals on 25&#160;February to their Lebanese counterparts.
However, unlike many of you, I see this unanimity as a source of concern, because it is normal in such serious situations for any agreement reached to be based on information which is too generic or on a minimal level of information which is inadequate.
To conclude, I note that the European Union is continuing strategically to recommend national independence as the goal to be achieved in the Middle East for its peoples, for peace and for the interests of Europe.
Think what would have happened if the same thing had occurred in Europe after the world wars.
The cedar revolution was also orange.
What Europe can do, apart from expressing its appreciation for the courage displayed by the Lebanese people, is to refrain from concluding an association agreement with Syria until such time as withdrawal is complete and its support for Hezbollah has come to an end. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, listening to most of the speakers, I had the impression that I was listening to Mrs Condoleeza Rice, and reading most of the resolutions, I thought that they were communications from the White House.
The truth is that Lebanon, following the war and the occupation of Iraq by the Americans, is becoming the field of application of the Greater Middle East plan announced by the United States and adopted by ΝΑΤΟ and the European Union.
This plan reinforces the role of Israel, sets its sights on the fight of the Palestinians for a free, independent state and exerts pressure on Syria and Iran.
And now efforts are being made to create the preconditions so that there can be a new military intervention in the area and overall attack on the peoples.
United Nations resolution 1559, put forward by France and the USA, demanding the withdrawal of the 14&#160;000 Syrian soldiers from Lebanese territory and the restitution of sovereignty to Lebanon after over 30 years of occupation, has been fundamentally ignored since the autumn of 2004.
It took the barbaric assassination of former Prime Minister Harari to re-invigorate the yearning and desire for freedom on the part of the opposition and much of the Lebanese people, and, above all, to awaken the quiescent conscience of the European Union which had left the Lebanese people for years at the mercy of Syrian domination.
The new position of the Saudi regime has left Syria isolated within the Arab League.
It would therefore be appropriate for the European Union to adopt a dignified position and resolve to make the signing of the association agreement with Syria conditional on its total withdrawal from Lebanon.
Syria has occupied Lebanon since 1976 and the Taif Agreement called for its troops to pull out 15 years ago.
France’s governments both of the left and of the right are particularly guilty here.
By supporting the Syrian dictatorship until last year, they have betrayed the friendship that has bound our nation to Lebanon since the time of Louis IX, thus damaging France’s interests in this region.
The complete withdrawal of Syria, that is to say of its army, of its information services and of its 500&#160;000 immigrants, the disarmament of the Hezbollah Islamic militia, the holding of genuinely free elections, the return to their country of outlawed individuals such as General Aoun, the release of all political prisoners and in particular of the Christian leader Samir&#160;Geagea – these are the demands of the Lebanese people and the conditions that our own governments should be demanding from Syria’s leaders in order to re-establish Lebanon as a free and sovereign state. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, first of all the assassination of former prime minister Hariri is an act which we must constantly denounce.
I shall insist – as other Members have done – on the issue of the mission of observers from the European Parliament.
My third comment concerns certain preconditions to peace and democracy in Lebanon.
The first is the safeguarding and protection of the rights of minorities and the procedures to protect their peaceful coexistence.
The second is the clear and efficient combating of the activities of Hezbollah, activities which, while centred on Lebanon, also extend outside the borders of Lebanon to the entire Middle East, thereby jeopardising peace.
Finally, given the very positive wind blowing in the Middle East, I wish to emphasise the need for the European Union to be present there, not only economically, but also politically. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, we are all still reeling here from the shock of the barbaric murder of the former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, which also took 18 lives and injured hundreds of people.
It also represents a first step by Syria towards the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1559.
We should take account of this first step, but remain firm and unyielding in our demands for the future.
That means Syria totally withdrawing from Lebanon, to allow that country to regain its sovereignty and rapidly organise free and democratic elections, in response to the unanimous aspirations of the Lebanese people, whose concerted action and desire for freedom are most impressive.
The European Union must also remain highly vigilant in view of the evolving political situation in Lebanon.
Many speakers have mentioned Hezbollah, but what is also needed now is a government.
Not necessarily Syria, and certainly not Europe, and, with respect to Mr&#160;Moscovici and Mrs&#160;Le&#160;Pen, not France, which, in any event, needs Lebanon, a Christian and multi-faith country which in some ways sets an example for the entire region. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the moment of historic hope for the Middle East.
These courageous people, along with all peace-loving people in the Middle East, deserve our support.
Then there are those people in the Lebanese Parliament, with whom some in this Chamber would like to do business, and their leader, Hussein Hay Hassan, who himself says: ‘Hezbollah is an organisation in which all fighters are politicians and military at the same time.
It is high time we had the courage to send a clear message to an organisation which has links with Syria and Iran, which attacks innocent citizens and speaks out in no uncertain terms against the peace process and against Syria’s withdrawal from Lebanon.
Two weeks ago, the Council’s representative stated: ‘We are keeping an eye on Hezbollah.
The courageous people in the Middle East deserve us finally having the courage to speak this clear language. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the death – the murder – of Rafik Hariri was a tragedy not only for his family, but also for the Lebanon.
That is why Syria must leave, taking its armed forces and its secret services with it.
Secondly, here are a few plain truths about Hezbollah.
The last thing I want to say in this debate is that Syria, too, is entitled to peace, stability and territorial integrity, but it must be prepared to conclude real peace with Israel, to acknowledge not only its own right to security but also Israel’s, and to help Israel to live in peace and security in the region.
If Syria does that, we will be able to support it in that, but this is a clear and unequivocal demand that we must make of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Lebanon has a recent history of civil war and a complex ethnic and religious balance.
Pressure is now mounting on Syria from Saudi Arabia, Russia, the US and Israel to withdraw its troops from Lebanon.
If the Lebanese demonstrators have their way in the May election, their victory at the polls could signal the end of 30 years of economic and political co-dependence, but it would also make al-Assad’s position a lot shakier.
Hizbollah, the international terrorist executive arm of Iran and Syria, which is based in Lebanon but increasingly working to undermine the Palestinian Authority and peace with Israel, is threatened by its Syrian protector’s withdrawal.
Hizbollah has 12 MPs in the Lebanese Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers is therefore reluctant to ban it, claiming there is a difference between its civilian political activities and its military wing.
The vital international inquiry must do everything possible to shed light on those responsible for seeking to destabilise Lebanon and creating a climate of terror.
I wish to congratulate the Lebanese people on the massive scale and fervour of their popular mobilisation, regardless of religious affiliations, in support of full sovereignty for their country.
Yes, we need to do everything to re-establish a strong, democratic and sovereign Lebanese state and to disarm all the armed militias.
The situation in Lebanon must not be decoupled from the general situation in the Middle East.
An overall and just resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is vital, and we must give our support to the new Palestinian leader.
And yes, the question of the future of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon and elsewhere is crucial: the issue of their return must form part of a global settlement.
Syria and Lebanon both have everything they need to develop alongside each other, within the framework of a partnership with the European Union, of our association agreements and our European Neighbourhood Policy.
Secondly, among our neighbours around the Mediterranean the Palestinian Authority has been the first to organise free elections – more free than any hitherto held in the Arab world.
If Jordan supports this peace process and Egypt does likewise, then those who want to disrupt it cannot be partners in our Neighbourhood Policy, and we must not mince our words in saying so.
What that means in plain language is that Hezbollah’s offices in Damascus and its activities in Lebanon demand that we in the European Union say loud and clear that it is intolerable that President Abbas’ peace process should continue to be undermined.
Today, Hezbollah’s activities are not so much directed against Israel; rather, they are targeted responses to individual actions taken by President Abbas in pursuit of peace.
Hezbollah knows that if it can still mastermind one or two terrorist acts, as it has succeeded in doing in Tel Aviv, then the process is again in jeopardy.
I think that any new European neighbourhood policy must make that clear, for the sake of the Palestinians and the Arabs in the region beset by conflicts, and that it would also be in Europe’s interests. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, developments in Lebanon should be seen within the framework of wider regional equilibrium and stability.
The application of resolution 1559 on the withdrawal of Syrian forces from Lebanese territory is the first, but not the only dynamic element in this global approach.
At the same time, an international initiative needs to be taken to restart the peace process between Israel and Syria.
It is in our interest to keep our options open with Syria if we want to help democratise the country and bring stability to the area.
Our objective is respect for the international legality and the application of resolution 1559.
If we are to be effective, we need first to be a credible European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is gratifying that the democratic forces in Lebanon appear to have such a lot of popular support.
The Syrian occupation of the country has lasted for 30 years and is an obstacle to the development of a proper democratic society.
Even if the events of recent days suggest that the Syrian regime is willing to give up its military presence in Lebanon, there are good reasons for maintaining a critical line where Syria is concerned.
President Assat has a reputation for ruthlessly using his various intelligence services and his secret police to suppress any resistance to the regime.
A fair number of bloody attacks in Syria’s and Lebanon’s recent history are witness to this.
The EU and the United States stand together on this matter.
The situation must be used to show that transatlantic cooperation can produce results.
With reasonable support for the democratic forces and a common front against the enemies of democracy, the EU and the United States will together be able to help democracy on its way – not only in Lebanon, but throughout the region. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we can celebrate a minor miracle, because in Lebanon, in times past, after the murder of an ex-Prime Minister we would have seen a fresh outbreak of civil war, whereas, on this occasion, Lebanese society has responded with peaceful indignation.
Commissioner, we know that there will be no peace between Palestine and Israel, or in the Middle East, as long as the Syrian occupation of Lebanon – an offence to the principle of legitimate sovereignty – persists.
The message is that the European Union should spare no efforts to allow this country, which has been scarred by decades of violence and which has suffered so much from the conflicts in the region, to regain its full sovereignty, recover its stability and construct a truly democratic society through free elections.
It is for that reason that we cannot accept Lebanon being used by those who want to derail the Middle East peace process.
Those who are undermining the development of democracy in Lebanon, those who are letting themselves be used to prevent Lebanon from regaining its full sovereignty, cannot expect the slightest sympathy for their position from the European Union.
That naturally also applies to Hezbollah, which has to choose between either taking part in the democratic life of a new, democratic Lebanon, or serving external forces that have no desire for peace either in Lebanon or in the region as a whole.
We must support all those democratic forces in Lebanon who seek change and who desire sovereignty for their country.
The debate is closed.
I have taken note of the reports referring to a possible withdrawal of the proposal by the Commission.
Members may recall that during my hearing before the European Parliament, I promised to consult and listen carefully before making any pronouncements on the draft directive, which the previous Commission brought forward.
Since then I have been meeting extensively with MEPs, social partners and ministers.
If we want to achieve the levels of growth necessary for sustainable development then a vibrant services sector is a prerequisite.
If we are to let our economies develop and grow we must maintain a clear focus on the services market.
The services directive is a key element in our efforts to relaunch the Lisbon Agenda.
If we are serious about the Lisbon Agenda, we must be serious about the services market.
That is why in presenting the Commission’s views on the Lisbon Strategy to you some weeks ago, President Barroso indicated that the Commission believed some changes would be necessary to ensure success.
The proposal to achieve this is innovative.
There are aspects of the current draft that are giving rise to serious concerns.
The directive will have to be clear that conditions and standards for workers will not be affected in any way.
The text will have to be watertight on this point.
We should address concerns about the operation of the country of origin principle.
We need to maintain this if we want to promote the cross-frontier provision of services.
We also need to build the trust and confidence between Member States necessary for it to operate effectively.
Clearly, it is your responsibility to decide on the amendments you want to bring forward.
It endorsed the suggestion that health and social services of general interest be excluded from the proposal.
I hope we can now move the discussion in the European Parliament and Council onto the positive elements that this proposal can bring.
Many aspects of the proposal have met with broad support and we should build on these.
Removing the red tape currently strangling efforts to establish or provide services on a cross-border basis will make a real contribution to entrepreneurship, growth and job creation.
Recipients of services should also have easy access to information on service providers and their services.
It should be easier to choose a service provider from another Member State.
We need to develop the cooperation, confidence and assistance between Member State administrations.
This is what the single market in services is about.
I am prepared to be constructive and positive.
I believe that with this I have outlined the Commission’s position and our desire to work loyally within the codecision process. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I believe that the plan was for you to speak about both issues, given that Members of this House are down to ask you questions on both the services directive, on which you have spoken, and the issue of the patentability of computer software.
I noted that Parliament considers, in general, that its views were not given sufficient weight at first reading.
From the debate in the Legal Affairs Committee, I noted that there are differing views on the substance of the proposal, in particular its content and purpose.
That was not because the Commission wished to persist stubbornly with the proposal, but because the Council was on the point of adopting a common position.
As I explained to the Conference of Presidents, the Council reached a political agreement in May 2004 at first reading.
The Council has been on the verge of confirming the political agreement in the form of a common position since December 2004.
The Commission had supported the political agreement of May 2004.
The Council has now made up its mind and adopted its common position.
It confirmed its common position, primarily for institutional reasons.
The Council wanted to avoid the setting of a precedent, with Member States being seen to back away from a deal they had signed up to in May 2004.
The Council confirmed its position to show that a deal is a deal and that it was not creating a logjam in a key area for innovation.
Yesterday, when the Council took its decision, Jeannot Krecké noted that some Member States had concerns about the substance of the text and that these would be addressed at second reading.
You will understand, of course, that I cannot speak on behalf of the Council and I would urge Parliament to engage constructively with the Council on this subject in the future.
Before concluding, I would like to say a few words on the substance of the proposal, since Parliament will now need to turn its attention to this.
The Commission proposed to clarify the legal rules on patentability for software-related inventions.
The Commission’s intention in making its proposal was to avoid the patenting of pure software and make a clear distinction between the European Union and the United States.
Those of you who have been directly involved in working on this proposal know as well as I do that this is a very complex area.
The directive cannot be turned on its head.
That is reflected in the positions expressed in the Council and Parliament and the Commission will take account of this and respect it. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, your communications have sparked great interest among the Members of this House.
Meanwhile, you act as if the thing were even in their interests, whilst avoiding mentioning those who really did guide you in drafting it, namely big businesses, in an attempt to deny small businesses the freedom that sets us apart from the American market and to prepare the way for a flattened field in which enormous profits will be achieved only by the very few.
Mr McCreevy, take the Bolkenstein proposal away and bring us a proposal of your own, a McCreevy proposal; do not confine yourself to the role of making minor corrections to the Bolkenstein proposal.
I await your proposal, not your son of Bolkenstein proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I can tell you, Commissioner, that everyone is talking about your directive in France.
It is safe to say that the whole of France is opposed to this directive and in particular the country of origin principle.
You are increasing mistrust and, even worse, you are going to be responsible for making France swing towards a no vote, which would be even more serious.
I therefore also ask you to withdraw your proposal, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, like everyone here, I listened to you very carefully.
It is true that in France today everybody is talking about this directive, to use our colleague’s expression.
In France, we heard your colleague Commissioner Barrot solemnly declaring that the directive was withdrawn and we heard the President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, trying to reassure our fellow citizens, explaining that the directive was being reviewed.
Finally, we want existing Community laws to take precedence over the new directive, in particular private international law for contractual and extra-contractual obligations and everything connected with workers rights.
That is your mission if you really want an internal market for services. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, one minute is not enough for me to talk about the unease that is gripping the world of Internet users regarding the procedure for adopting the directive on the patentability of computer software.
The Luxembourg Presidency did not have the right to refuse passage from point A to point B; adoption at point&#160;A albeit following a debate, with one vote against and three abstentions is almost unprecedented.
There is, however, also and above all the question of the merits.
I would therefore like to ask the Commission the following question: do you or do you not think that a clear distinction between what is patentable and what is not is essential to this text?
If so, do you think that the only possible distinction (as we do not know of any other) is whether or not energy or materials are used, as the reference to the technical contribution is tautological and allows anything to be patented. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, what we are witnessing today in this House is a breathtaking display of hypocrisy.
This House is now saying that the services directive is a bad thing because it could pave the way for the new Member States to provide services in the old Member States.
Over the past ten years the major Western companies have entered the market in Poland and other countries of the New Europe, yet where have the Members of this House been all this time?
The present services directive is an act of justice, and I would call on the Commissioner to continue defending it.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the shadow rapporteur from this side of the House, I am delighted that the Commissioner has set out quite clearly a positive case for the Services Directive.
We will make that positive case, because we want the jobs and the new business start-ups.
We will work with the Commission to deliver an effective and workable directive that will be of benefit to consumers and citizens throughout the European Union.
Let us work together, move forward and dispel forever the idea that the Commission is going to withdraw this proposal.
We want a workable and effective proposal for all the citizens of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to ask about the matter of software.
That is the first issue.
This is something I should like to have clarified. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall confine my remarks to the Services Directive, and speak as a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Commissioner, it clearly comes as no surprise to you that the Left is strongly opposed to this particular directive and would prefer you to withdraw it, or at least neuter it.
That report on the social situation in Europe was scathing about the Services Directive, and this House voted to reject it.
I suggest that the message here is clear, and you may be surprised at the strength of feeling in support of what you aim to do, surprised at the awareness that this directive could be good for consumers, good for taxpayers, good for growth and above all good for jobs.
I should nevertheless like a few additional clarifications, for – as my fellow Members have already pointed out – it is not always as clear how far you are willing to go with us.
First of all, you claim that this directive’s scope is probably too wide and in your speaking notes for the Conference of Presidents you mentionpublic funded services of general interest.
After all, services of general interest are far more comprehensive than just social services.
Let me say, Commissioner, that I believe constructive cooperation to be a real option only if you more clearly clarify, for our benefit, exactly what you mean. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to tell Mr McCreevy that I have still not quite understood where exactly he wanted to take us, in particular regarding this problem of the patentability of software.
Mr McCreevy, in one minute, I can only say this.
Patenting software is exactly like giving people the opportunity to become the exclusive owners of the words or grammatical rules of a language and therefore prevent other people from using them.
My question concerns the Services Directive.
There has been much talk about the Lisbon strategy and the need for innovation and promoting the European services market.
In short, Mr McCreevy, I would argue in favour of paying more than lip service to the Lisbon strategy and also of respect for the democratic process and for the elected representatives of Europe’s people. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are many in this House today who have come out against the Services Directive.
I therefore think it important to state that it is the most significant individual reform we now have for European integration and for giving new impetus to the Lisbon process.
The services sector corresponds to 70% of the European economy.
We shall never obtain the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world if we do not open up the services sector.
For 50 years, half of Europe has had the advantage of living in freedom and peace and has been able to develop a services sector with a high knowledge content.
It can, of course, be done in this House, but the Council is, after all, responsible for getting the backing of a majority, and that is what the post-18 May text will not get in its present form.
I do not want a power struggle between Parliament, the Council and the Commission; what I want is the objections to this directive to be properly dealt with, and that is what I expect of you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, after this discussion, the Commissioner will not think he has given everyone a hearing and can proceed along the same course as before, as he seems to have been saying during the debate over the last few months.
With particular regard to software, the decision taken yesterday is a serious affront to the democratic wishes of European citizens.
Instead of referring the text back to Parliament, the body you represent opted to submit the directive for approval by the Council, completely ignoring the opinion of the European Parliament, whose intention was to have the legislative process re-started from scratch.
If, now, the labour market is exempted and the host country principle applies to environmental standards, consumer law and so on, then I wonder, secondly, how, in drafting a directive, it can be thought that the basic principle should be the country of origin principle.
Let us resume the agenda for the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with regard to the speakers to whom you have given the floor during this debate, I object to the lack of balance among the different Member States.
But you should watch and be fair, Mr President.
I have heard what Members are saying on that matter.
It is up to the European Parliament to do its job on this particular matter and we will take on board your concerns.
Some questions were asked about the matter at the Council of Ministers yesterday.
For a number of years, the European economy has been growing at a rate less than its full potential.
The services directive, as proposed by the previous Commission, was a noble and very innovative attempt to do something dramatic in this vital area.
I am going to stand on the barricades for ever and ever and defend this proposal from the last Commission!
I have met people individually and collectively and at committees and they have given me very good ideas as to what we should do.
Some people strongly believe we should continue as we started, but that will not succeed either.
Therefore, I have taken everybody’s views into account and have stated that the Commission is willing to listen and to accept changes to ensure that we will end up with a services directive that does something positive for the European economy.
Therefore, we do not want to create the impression that we are going to deny the new Member States that recently joined the Union the same opportunities that the existing 15 have had for a long time, including the country I know best.
However, we cannot be here just as the voice of the ‘ins’ and forget about the ‘outs’.
I hope to be able to come up with the best solution possible, based on the broadest consensus, because that is what we and Europe need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, not for the first time I should like to ask you to communicate to the President of Parliament a request for clarification of the rules and procedures for these ‘catch-the-eye’ sessions.
I know you cannot call everyone, but I have a very particular viewpoint from Scotland that has not been heard.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is question time (B6-0019/2005).
Currently, the Schengen Information System – SIS – enables designated law enforcement authorities of 13 Member States, plus Norway and Iceland, to have access to wanted persons alerts by means of an automated search procedure.
The SIS-CIS can be searched by police officers of all the countries taking part in the implementation of the Schengen .
It is up to the issuing countries to decide whether they deem the wider dissemination of information on a wanted person, for example via publication on the Interpol website, is of added value.
Europol, as the central law enforcement authority in the European Union, is founded on the principle of sharing and analysing information and intelligence, especially in the investigation or intelligence phase prior to measures such as the issue of an arrest warrant for a criminal or a house search on a warrant from judicial authorities at a later stage.
At Europol, Member States compile information and intelligence on file to assess top criminals, groups and organisations and coordinate subsequent joint action on the monitoring and targeting of suspected criminals by the law enforcement authorities.
The Commission would be willing to discuss with the new Member States whether there is a need to improve the instruments at EU level for searching for persons wanted for serious criminal offences with a cross-border dimension.
The first meeting in 2005 took place in February, so the Commission would therefore be in a position to provide a final reply in the second half of 2005. &#160;&#160; Thank you for a very complex and interesting reply, which needs to be read carefully.
I am not opposed to the principle of giving the public absolutely clear information on the existence of extremely dangerous individuals who may well be wanted for very serious crimes.
On the contrary, I believe that cooperation between police forces and the investigating authorities in Member States requires, in certain cases, the support of public opinion.
I shall therefore raise the question with the task force of police chiefs of Member States with a view to obtaining a satisfactory reply, which I will then report back to this Parliament.
Regulation No&#160;622/2003, as modified by Regulation No 68/2004, does not ban knives or scissors unless the blade is longer than 6 cm.
Article&#160;6 of Regulation No&#160;2320/2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security authorises the Member States to apply more stringent measures than those laid down in the Regulation.
I would like to add on a personal note, honourable Member, that I am closely monitoring these Pyrenees crossings, which are necessary for greater mobility not only between Spain and France but between the whole of Europe and the Iberian Peninsula.
I think that, following the incident that you highlighted, we need to continue discussions and dialogue in order to move forward in the direction that you want us to take. &#160;&#160; I simply wished to ask the Commissioner whether he could clarify under what circumstances the Commission could or should initiate the infringement procedure against France and whether he believes the Community rules are appropriate and sufficient in this area.
A measure such as the one taken by France must be examined in the light of the objective of free movement of goods and in the light of the general principles of Community law, including the criteria of non-discrimination and proportionality.
If it is established that France is not complying with these principles of Community law and is creating an obstacle to free movement, obviously the Commission could envisage bringing an infringement procedure against it.
Regarding your other point, you can also be assured that we are ensuring that all the necessary research is done in order to determine how to improve the Pyrenees crossing.
I am quite happy to talk to you about this problem.
Counterfeiting and piracy are very serious problems and they are of enormous and growing magnitude.
The total volume of counterfeit goods is between 5% and 10% of world trade and the value is close to EUR&#160;500 billion per year.
Counterfeiting and piracy undermine jobs and result in a considerable loss of revenue.
Customs play a major role in combating counterfeiting.
EU customs, with new modern legislation and operational actions, have increased by 900% the seizures of fake products in four years.
One of the most effective instruments in the fight against counterfeiting, however, is to cut it at source.
Bearing in mind that 70% of counterfeit products seized at EU borders are of Chinese origin, the Commission has been focusing on China in the fight against counterfeiting.
A promising achievement was the recently signed customs cooperation agreement between the European Union and China, which includes joint action against counterfeiting.
The significance of the cooperation is shown by a single statistic: 5&#160;000 containers arrive daily from China in the major ports in the European Union.
My colleague, Commissioner Mandelson, who is responsible for trade policy, visited China recently and had the opportunity to discuss the issue with high-ranking Chinese officials, including the Deputy Prime Minister, who expressed their commitment to the fight against counterfeiting.
The Commission has regular dialogues with China at an expert level too.
The EU-China intellectual property rights dialogue had its first meeting last October in Beijing.
The next meeting of the economic and trade working group will be held on 17 and 18 March.
I hope that a large proportion of the counterfeit goods will be stopped and seized prior to their export from China.
The Russian intellectual property legislation is now largely compliant with the WTO TRIPS Agreement.
The Commission intends to continue its efforts on intellectual property issues with Russia through a structured intellectual property dialogue, similar to the one with China. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, your reply was very encouraging.
However, it is an offer that we should make to test whether China is willing to respond to our initiatives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, now that these shortcomings in customs cooperation with China have been identified, now that there are these mass imports of counterfeit products, why does the Commission and, by extension the European Union, not take measures to suspend the abolition of quotas on textile products?
These would assist the Chinese authorities in China itself in keeping goods not complying with world market rules away from our market.
All these countries benefited from the new GSP proposal presented in October 2004.
Between 2002 and 2003, EU GSP imports increased from 47.2 billion to 52 billion, although during this period products and commodities like coffee were no longer under a GSP scheme, since they were granted duty-free access under other international agreements.
As far as the GSP is concerned, the EU is by far the most important donor in the world.
The EU is also a partner in several other preferential trade arrangements that benefit developing countries, for example, the ‘everything but arms’ initiative and the Cotonou Agreement.
While in these negotiations the US might have got a good deal in the pliers sector, the EU certainly obtained a favourable result in other industrial sectors, in which EU exporters are better off than their US counterparts.
In the current WTO round, the EU has shown its clear commitment to bringing down industrial tariffs further, especially in respect of such an important EU export market as the United States.
The Commission is confident that it will succeed in this. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Piebalgs.
I wish you every success in the new Doha Round, and I hope that these differences can be reconciled, because the manufacturers of hand tools for professional use are small businesses which provide employment for workers and families which live and depend on that success in the next Doha Round.
As the honourable Member has rightly pointed out, the United States has threatened to withdraw as of 1&#160;March 2005 tariff concessions on a number of EU products, including canned peaches, as a reaction to the EU’s decision to modify its WTO schedule in respect of husked and milled rice.
However, thanks to intense negotiation between the two parties, an agreement has been reached with the result that the United States has not applied its retaliation list.
So the issue has been resolved. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his reply.
The most recent agricultural reform packages adopted by the agriculture ministers in 2003 and 2004 have to a large extent eliminated the trade-distorting nature of the common agricultural policy and contributed to more market-oriented agricultural trade.
More than that, since between the 25 Member States of the European Union there are certain differences which do not fit with the rules of open competition.
It is well known that the ten newly-acceded countries get significantly less assistance from the common agricultural policy than the fifteen old Member States, and that this holds back the farmers of the ten new Member States, and their products, in competition.
But seeing how serious the problems of the ten newly-acceded countries are, I can very much feel and understand the problems of the poorest countries.
In fact, the Commission has gone through a long process of change during the past five years.
Upon taking office, the Prodi Commission embarked on a comprehensive programme of administrative reform with the adoption of the White Paper on 1 March 2000 and the implementation of the timetable/action plan.
The administrative reform is both a reform of structure and of mentality.
First, the Commission has taken steps to improve its own working methods, in particular by streamlining coordination between its services.
The Commission also modified its personnel policy through the adoption of new Staff Regulations on 1 May 2004.
This process obtained the unanimous support of the Council and backing from the European Parliament.
The reform is in progress, but it is not yet complete.
In this sense a reform is never complete.
In the process of implementation, the Commission will in particular look at the simplification of procedures in order to remove unnecessary obstacles and combat red tape.
I agree with the honourable Member that the credibility of the European project strongly relies on the capacity of its institutions to adapt their structures and rules to the needs of the general public.
Therefore, reform is a continuous process that rightly deserves the attention of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; (Thank you Commissioner.
I am sorry to say that it was not stated entirely clearly whether the Kinnock reform was at least partially successful in this endeavour.
There are probably still a large number of procedures in the European institutions that should be substantially simplified.
With a view to modernising the EU’s institutions and to that implementation of sound administrative practices discussed by Commissioner Kallas, we must, however, also demand more from the tax revenue we invest.
Such greater efficiency would be possible if all EU decisions were, in actual fact, also to become a reality.
These may, for example, include important measures to combat environmental damage, or legislation for greater equality and justice in Europe.
The EU institutions are working more efficiently than ever.
It is known that a former member of the Court of Auditors who was implicated in the inquiry carried out in the Court by OLAF has instituted legal proceedings in Greece against a former Court of Auditors official who testified in the case.
The Commission can confirm that the provisions of the Staff Regulations, to which the honourable Member refers, apply to personnel of all the institutions, including the Court of Auditors.
The Commission would like to point out that it is the duty of the institutions to protect officials or ex-officials who are the subject of discriminatory treatment.
Rules in the current Staff Regulations with regard to these whistle-blowers also apply to the Court of Auditors.
With complete respect for the rules of procedure enforced in Greece, OLAF has taken the necessary steps to provide the former official with all the information that he has requested and that OLAF can provide in order to assist him in his defence.
I was actually delighted to be able to replace Mr van Buitenen, because I was the very MEP who initiated this whole affair in the previous legislature.
By 2030, this dependency could grow to almost 70%, with 90% of oil and 80% of gas consumed coming from outside the EU.
The EU-Russia energy dialogue has established a good relationship in the energy field, and the Commission believes that Russia will be the most important and reliable energy supplier to the EU for the foreseeable future.
Notwithstanding this, however, the Community needs to ensure diversity of supply and make maximum use of its own indigenous energy resources.
Such a policy makes sense in terms of security of supply, sustainable development and the pursuit of our Lisbon objectives.
A simple comparison of the way in which the different EU Member States have addressed energy efficiency will show the possibilities for energy savings, which will contribute significantly to meeting the EU’s Kyoto targets.
It will also enhance our competitiveness.
This spring I will present a Green Paper on energy efficiency, outlining the concrete measures to be taken at Community, national, regional and local level that will lead to those savings.
Second, supporting renewables: towards the end of this year the Commission will publish a communication on renewables, in particular assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of existing support mechanisms in the Member States.
Europe should take a leading role in research in this area, and the Commission will be examining the possibility of a joint European project.
In addition to this, and to ensure that these policies fully meet this challenge, it is clear that a wide public debate should take place on increasing EU external energy dependency.
For this reason the Commission intends to adopt by the end of this year a new Green Paper on security of the EU energy supply, with the aim of promoting a large public debate.
The input of the European Parliament during the preparation and follow-up of this Green Paper will be vital. &#160;&#160; The Commissioner made reference to Russia’s reliability.
In the natural gas market, for instance in Latvia, the gas is partially owned by the Gazprom company.
But this is a commercial project and I have no objections to that. &#160;&#160; I am much obliged to the Commissioner for his explanations.
Certainly the dialogue could produce much better results, but I would say that Russia should adopt legislation that allows real competition in the market and offers scope for investments.
Russia needs to make its own decisions; our role is to encourage Russia in this and that is what the EU is doing.
The alternative to this unsatisfactory situation is a project linking the electricity networks between Lithuania and Poland.
This underwater cable will link the Baltic States to the Scandinavian power grid and is expected to be completed in 2006.
The other key electricity interconnection project in the region is the Poland to Lithuania link.
It is a rather complex issue and needs good cooperation between all parties involved.
The Poland to Lithuania link is mentioned as a project of European interest, and the Commission is facilitating progress on that issue.
For instance, on 18&#160;March there will be a meeting between Polish and Lithuanian representatives in Brussels to discuss the current Polish and Lithuanian transmission development plan, including the power bridge between both countries.
I have had personal contacts with the representatives of the two countries and am confident that the power bridge between Poland and Lithuania will be created. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your broad and business-like response.
I would also like to know what you think about the fact that there is a growing opinion in Lithuania that a situation has been reached where Lithuania's dependency is still one-sided in terms of energy, and where there is increasing talk in Lithuania about the fact that it might perhaps be possible to extend the work of the second block at the Ignalina nuclear power station.
Bearing in mind the latest scientific information on the safety of RBMK reactors and the technical prospects of the second block working for approximately another 12 years, what does the Commission think about such an extension?
That is not a decision by the Commission, but part of the Accession Treaty.
It is difficult for me to comment on the position of Poland, but my contacts with the Polish Government and authorities have shown that they are open to developing this project.
Firstly, can the Commissioner envisage these electricity interconnection projects being expanded westwards, too?
The situation in Lithuania is also clear: the Accession Treaty calls for the closure of the Ignalina reactors.
The Baltic States have been part of the CIS electricity link.
These directives should have been transposed by July 2004, but transposition is still pending in some countries.
In addition, I have instructed my services to examine the implementing laws that have been adopted to ensure full conformity with the requirements of the directives.
Second, it is necessary to ensure a level playing field with respect to the detailed regulatory rules on issues such as tariff structures and third-party access rules.
This has been pursued through the consensus-building approach of the Florence and Madrid Forums which led to the regulation on cross-border trade in electricity that entered into force last year, and the equivalent regulation on gas, which we expect to be adopted very soon.
The existence of such a regulator was a key requirement of the directives, and joint action by them will be vital in ensuring that, from the point of view of the customer, there is one single European electricity and gas network, not 25.
This should in particular include a detailed examination of the adequacy of the already-existing measures.
The report should form a basis for a detailed, wide-ranging debate that enables conclusions to be drawn in 2006.
I hope the European Commission will be guided in its actions primarily by the interests of European consumers, whether they be Polish, Lithuanian, Estonian or British, and I should like to say, on behalf of Polish consumers, that I am counting on this being the case.
That concludes questions to the Commission. &#160;&#160; The next item is a continuation of the debate on the report (A6-0045/2005), by Mr&#160;Sánchez Presedo, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a Council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences [COM(2004)0699 – COM(2005)0043 – C6 0001/2005 – 2004/0242(CNS)]. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel very much in two minds about the whole preference system as such.
The fact that we are removing some of the obstacles to trade faced by the poor countries is obviously a good thing.
What is depressing, however, is the fact that there is any need at all for a special preference system for the poor countries and the fact that the consequences of Europe’s general trade policy are such that, in order to sleep well at night, we have to make exceptions to it for the sake of the poor.
Few poor countries have made use of the system, not least because it has been so complicated.
If we do not do so, how can trade, and indeed the world, become freer?
During the debate on this matter, I doubted, however, whether some MEPs remembered that European cooperation was based upon free trade.
More than one attempt was made in this House too to protect European sugar production and the textile industry which now already operate behind high tariff barriers – and all this at the expense of producers in poor countries.
I, for my part, obviously voted against these attempts, but there are still mumblings about our still having a long way to go.
I would also like to highlight the considerable steps forward made in this new regulation, not only in terms of simplification, with the reduction in the number of systems, while concentrating the benefits of the GSP in the countries that need them most, or in terms of encouraging compliance with practices that are in line with sustainable development and good governance, but also in terms of the quick adoption of the new regulation, in order to provide additional commercial support as soon as possible for the countries affected by the tsunami.
I think that the rapporteur’s proposal of a transitional period until January 2006 is the most reasonable, especially as we know that these long and complex procedures have always limited the use of the scheme by poor countries.
Also, with regard to rules of origin, although I welcome the greater flexibility in the text, it should be a priority for the European Union to harmonise these rules at international level, in particular within the WTO.
Developing countries have to adapt to the specific rules of origin of each country that grants them a system of preferences, which makes the process very complicated and costly, to the point that sometimes it loses all commercial value.
I would also like to stress that Parliament asks the Commission to closely monitor the application of the new system, in order to determine whether it achieves its objectives, country by country.
The Commission needs to evaluate the system regularly, monitor its implementation and keep Parliament informed, which was not done in the past.
If we really want to help poor countries to benefit from globalisation, we need to rethink world trade rules as a whole so that they are fairer, linking trade with sustainable development. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
The abolition of the rules of origin would open the EU market to another 30 developing countries, including competitive India, while countries affected by the tsunami, for example Sri Lanka, would be unable to compete realistically.
Those EU Member States which have transferred their textile manufacturing to Asian states would benefit, while the textile industry of the EU's southern and new Member States would suffer, unemployment would increase with the collapse of the textile sector and this would not help implement the Lisbon goals.
I would like to stress that the Committee on International Trade has rejected the proposal on inter-regional and global cumulation.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on his work, particularly given that his first report in this Parliament relates to a sensitive and complex area on which Parliament has had to act quickly.
I would like to stress that our institution has not had sufficient time to consider and debate this complex subject in depth.
Nevertheless, the report by the Committee on International Trade improves the Commission’s proposal and makes it more democratic, by enhancing the role of Parliament, and makes many aspects of it more balanced.
I am pleased that we have persuaded the Commission to accept them, as Commissioner Mandelson acknowledged this morning. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, which, as our colleague Mr Arif said, aims towards simplification and greater effectiveness of the generalised system of preferences.
More importantly, however, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Sánchez Presedo for considering the impact of the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative, particularly in the area of sugar, especially in the light of the forthcoming reform of our common organisation of the market.
The recent example of the Balkans showed that limited access to the European market sometimes has the disadvantage of contributing to the development of an illegal triangular trade, which in the case of the fifty less advanced countries would probably generate a massive influx of sugar into the European market.
Therefore, as the reform of the COM means that European countries will now experience fluctuations and will therefore be subject to the vagaries of the market, a significant increase in the supply of sugar will result in a huge drop in prices in the Union, at the same time removing the economic value of the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative for the least advanced countries.
This is why, following the repeated requests from the least advanced countries themselves and in line with the recommendations of the Committee on Agriculture, this report on the generalised system of preferences leaves open the possibility of adapting the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative by allowing, if necessary, an extension of the transitional period preceding the complete opening up of the market.
This significant step forward due to the clear-sightedness of the rapporteur is necessary for the economic survival of the least advanced countries.
It will give them time, in accordance with the reform of the COM in sugar, to modernise their production structures in order to adapt to the new European order.
This is why it is imperative that the European Parliament adopts this text in order to take into account the specific nature of some sectors and so that the generalised system of preferences really fulfils its prime objective, which is the development of the countries that are most in need. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the harmonious integration of developing countries into the multilateral trade system is, rightly, the stated objective of the Doha development programme.
No one can dispute the role of international trade as a necessary factor in economic development and the reduction of poverty, even more so when development is linked to other important components, such as environmental protection, social responsibility and proper governance.
The scheme of generalised tariff preferences is a very useful tool for aiding developing countries.
As far as sensitive products for the European Union are concerned, such as sugar, the abolition of duty and quotas on the basis of the timetable proposed by the Commission contains two risks.
The second risk is inherent in the fact that the liberalisation of imports in application of the 'everything but arms' initiative, in conjunction with the strict proposal to review the COM in sugar, is expected to benefit not the less developed countries, which need a longer transitional period, nor the ACP countries, but the export interests of the oligarchies.
Consequently, it is necessary for the provision to suspend duty to be subject to longer deadlines and smaller quotas which, I hope, will be laid down when the COM in sugar is reformed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report.
Commissioner Mandelson made it clear this morning that the Commission’s aim in bringing forward this revision of the GSP was to ensure better targeting of trade preferences to benefit the least developed and most vulnerable countries, simplify the GSP system and make it more transparent, improve access to the GSP system by improving the rules of origin and encourage good governance in the countries that benefit from the system.
All the rapporteur’s amendments take the Commission proposals further in that direction and I hope that the Commissioner will look closely at each of the amendments the rapporteur has proposed.
While the volume of aid given to the countries affected by the tsunami has been welcomed, this measure will do more for them in the longer term.
Finally, the rapporteur has indicated that he is prepared to accept an amendment that Mr Karim and myself put forward.
I should to emphasise that, although that would allow them to qualify under the statistics, they will still have to meet the good governance clauses by signing up for the appropriate international agreements, so this would be a carrot to Pakistan to sign up to important international social conventions. &#160;&#160; First I would like to congratulate Mr Sanchez Presedo on his report.
Since being brought into being in 1971, the general preferential system has become a special instrument of European Union development policy.
At the same time it is important to stress that the European Union was the first to apply this system in practice, from its birth to today, and today the EU is still the biggest donor to this system, with the United States only the second, lagging a long way behind the Union.
Although the draft regulation does not bring too many changes to the current regime, the European Parliament, in its opinion of 14 October last year, which was passed with a large majority, declared that extending it to span the regions and make it fully global is absolutely necessary.
Finally I cannot stress enough the necessity of this – my colleague Mr van den Berg underlined this point this morning – that we extend the temporary period until 1 January 2006. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, in which he argues that development should be a basic principle underlying our trade policy, within a transparent and fair international system of trade.
The system of generalised preferences has played a fundamental role in reducing poverty and improving the economies of the developing countries.
I believe it is necessary for this new SGP to be fully compatible with the agreement reached in Geneva last summer and with the negotiations being carried out in the WTO.
This would help to reduce the reservations of certain developing countries about the trade liberalisation proposed within the framework of the Doha negotiations, since the Union would take the necessary measures to maintain the current preferential treatment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done and the Commission, obviously, for the positive changes to the scheme, by which I mean in particular its simplification and the introduction of GSP plus, which will prompt the neediest countries to adopt and apply a number of important conventions.
In addition, the recent change to the proposal in response to the tsunami disaster deserves our support.
The countries that qualify for GSP plus, in particular, should be able to join the scheme after May 2005.
Moreover, the Commission should pay special attention to capacity buildingin those countries and should also, as far as possible, provide them with technical assistance in the transposition of, for example, the international conventions, thus enabling them to take optimum advantage of the GSP plus benefits.
Finally, I should like to argue in favour of regular assessments of the scheme’s impact, both within the EU and on developing countries, since circumstances are subject to almost constant change – something of which what is currently happening in the areas of textiles and sugar provides sufficient evidence. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
To summarise, I should like to say – without any of the flourish customary in this House – that we are in fact pleasingly efficient, when you compare our work with that of many committees on petitions at national level.
A further reason why we are not doing so badly is that, compared with the national parliaments, we have very little obligation to follow majority or minority opinions, very little obligation to take account of protection and support for the relevant governing party.
Nevertheless, we should be striving for improvements, very general quality criteria for our work with regard to third parties.
In addition, we should like to see the appointment of a Presidency representative or coordinator responsible for petitions, ideally as early as six months before the start of the Presidency, to enable important petitions to be followed up in time.
I think that there is still a good measure of misconception in this regard.
However, we have to consider not only outward-looking, but also inward-looking, quality criteria.
We also need to improve the software system that we have.
Secondly, the Members of the European Parliament have an intense desire for more specialisation in this work and, thirdly, the public have an interest in seeing a more rigorous approach with regard to the timescales mentioned above and also greater transparency.
Various initiatives are in place to do justice to the extent, range and specialisation of our work.
The extent and range of the Union’s policies are growing, and specialisation sometimes involves difficult details.
We have therefore proposed, as a result of our deliberations, that an ad hoc committee be set up to work out further details for the next annual report.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Mr Wieland for his analysis in this useful report on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions in the 2003-2004 parliamentary year.
This debate represents a good opportunity to highlight why the right to petition the European Parliament is such an important way for Europeans to exercise their democratic rights.
The petitions also represent a valuable opportunity for the Commission to get closer to citizens and their concerns.
Although no less than 1&#160;313 petitions were tabled in the 2003-2004 period, it is clear that many citizens remain unaware of their right to petition.
Therefore I very much welcome the fact that the European Parliament is currently considering how this can be remedied and I can assure the Committee on Petitions and the rapporteur that they enjoy the total support of the Commission in that effort.
On that note, the Commission would like to congratulate the committee on its excellent work.
There is, of course, always scope for improvement, and I agree with the rapporteur on the need to further strengthen the partnership between the Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman, the Council and the Commission.
I can assure Parliament that the Commission is pursuing its efforts to rationalise and accelerate internal procedures in response to requests for information.
As underlined in the report, the draft Constitutional Treaty confirms the right to petition.
In that context, the report refers to the need to establish common rules of conduct for all Community institutions and Member States.
The Commission can largely endorse this approach, although it draws attention to the anticipated development of the legal framework.
In particular, the text of the future Constitution introduces a legal basis that will make requests to the Committee on Petitions possible on the basis of the codecision procedure.
The report also calls on the Council and the Commission to review the 1989 interinstitutional agreement concluded with the European Parliament by an exchange of letters.
Such a review would aim to define a stronger framework for cooperation between the three institutions.
The right of EU citizens to good administration and access to documents and their right to submit complaints to the European Ombudsman and file petitions with the European Parliament all benefit communication and, ultimately, democracy.
First of all, however, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Wieland, for his excellent report.
Not only does it reflect the work of the Committee on Petitions, but it is also very informative and, above all, citizen-friendly and readable – which cannot be said about all the documents in this House.
My essential concern remains, however, how we can communicate to the public the Community’s nature as something founded upon the rule of law.
For this reason, we need to work on building a Community with a real, lasting basis in the rule of law for individual citizens and enterprises, and also, as an initial step, on enabling EU civil rights to be enforced via the Committee on Petitions.
However, Member States’ responses are often inadequate.
The committee is a brilliant interface between the citizens and the institutions and it brings forward solutions to problems at both EU and Member State level.
There is only one element in Mr Wieland’s report with which I could perhaps quibble, and that is his reference in paragraph 17 to a standing working group or subcommittee.
This is, after all, a report on the previous year’s deliberations and we should not undermine the role or the work of the Bureau and its coordinators.
Without the resources, we cannot serve our citizens.
We also need additional resources to promote the right of petition, especially in the new Member States, and to ensure that, where necessary, the Commission is fully willing and able to enforce the infringement process.
It is like an ongoing dialogue, in which citizens should feel that they are being taken seriously and can have confidence in the EU.
In fact petitions are a strong tool for democracy.
It must be stressed that, in developing the ability of the Committee on Petitions to deal with those situations, the committee will need the support of Parliament as a whole.
That is very important.
Thus the committee is also putting forward for Parliament’s approval a statement that it is considered legitimate for Parliament to exercise its powers under Article 230 of the EC Treaty if this is necessary in order to put an end to a serious infringement of Community law that has been reviewed in the examination of a petition, and where a significant difference of interpretation persists – in spite of efforts to resolve it – between Parliament on the one hand and the Commission on the other, as regards the actions required by Community law for the protection of citizens’ rights in the case concerned. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pity that today’s debate on this report is being held so late in the evening.
It may well be the case that not all Members of the House need to hear what we have to say, but I believe it is important that the public should have the chance to do so, even though there is unfortunately no&#160;one at all in the public gallery.
I would therefore repeat that I think it is a great pity that we are holding this debate so late, in an entirely empty Chamber, and that so few people are present to hear the debate on Mr&#160;Wieland’s excellent report.
I should also like to thank him for this report.
Ladies and gentlemen, one point I should like to emphasise is that the number of petitions submitted to our committee has risen for the first time in the committee’s ten-year history, or in other words since 1995.
After staying at more or less the same level during this ten-year period, there has recently been a sharp increase in petitions submitted.
Yet despite this fact, our committee is doing a good job.
There are a number of bodies whose work helps the committee to do such a good job.
The committee also has a secretariat, which does an extremely good job.
It sometimes takes a relatively long time to receive an answer on matters that are quite straightforward.
Furthermore, Commission officials sometimes provide oral answers and tell us that written answers will follow, yet we cannot give a full and binding answer to petitioners on the basis of an oral answer.
Many thanks, Mr President, and I should also like to thank all those who contribute to the work of our committee.
I should like to thank Mr&#160;Wieland, who is an outstanding and active member of the committee, and I should also like to thank Mrs&#160;Wallström for being present.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the ombudsman, which is directly linked to the Committee on Petitions in order to ensure it is able to respond to the circumstances, as well as to the obligations of the European Parliament towards the citizens and the citizens' right to ask the extended family of the European Union for protection, fills us with responsibilities.
We are causing them, in this way, to disdain the institutions and functions of Parliament.
I, for my part, appreciate that the Committee on Petitions and its cooperation with the ombudsman and his services needs to be galvanised into greater action, given that, according to the initial data, there has been an increase in petitions in the order of 40% compared with the previous year.
There needs to be a qualitative increase in information for citizens and this will be achieved through cooperation between the competent European institutions, by which I mean between the European Parliament, the Committee on Petitions, the ombudsman and his counterparts in the Member States.
The authority of the Committee on Petitions depends on the respect that we show towards the four hundred and fifty million citizens who turn to us in the knowledge that procedures and appraisals, decisions and judgments come before interests and personal conduct.
I also pay equal tribute to the parliamentarians of the ACP countries, without whom this partnership and dialogue would not be possible.
In so doing, I would also like to pay tribute to the joint secretariats of our Parliament and the Assembly, the interpreters and staff who accompany us, and the Commissioners, officials and members of the presidency who attend.
However, this evening I would like to pay a particular tribute to the Co-President of the ACP, Glenys Kinnock, who has been away from our circle for some time.
It is very good to see her back this evening I hope in good health and ready to face the fray of the next Parliamentary Assembly.
The European Parliament is a new parliament.
In the early days the European Parliament was perhaps dominant, but reliant all too often on separate House votes; whereas the ACP was a bit more on the defensive, often represented by ambassadors or delegations of only government parties.
We see the ACP gaining in self-confidence and indeed, most recently at our bureau meeting, raising issues about human rights in Europe; and quite right too.
The ACP was, for example, raising the issues of the British Government, its attitude to Guantanamo Bay and its proposals for the detention of suspects, or indeed people with mental health problems.
However, when we do that we will have to balance that scrutiny on behalf of our own taxpayers with acknowledgement of the ACP countries’ right to a say in how money is spent; we need to be listening, as well as scrutinising.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly has now developed an effective system of standing committees, firing on all cylinders and getting members working together.
I think it learned a lot from our experience in Rome with their workshops and their visits.
I should also like to thank the Ethiopian Government for its hospitality and effective administration in Addis Ababa.
We are of a mind that, in Europe, we should continue to have one of the two Council presidencies per year hosting the Assembly, and perhaps to swap around the winter and spring to give the ACP Members a little more warmth of welcome in weather as well as politics.
In our debates we have a better balance of speakers from the floor and fewer long speeches from the platform, and we are of a mind that we should do more to support the new pan-African Parliament, perhaps with exchange of personnel.
Over the last few years, the influence of the Assembly has increased.
The committees strengthen the role of the Assembly in monitoring implementation of the Cotonou Agreement, which states that meetings between EU and ACP Members of Parliament may be arranged at regional or sub-regional level.
That strengthens regional integration and fosters cooperation between national parliaments.
The resolution calls on the Assembly to organise these meetings.
The Commission is ready to make its contribution to the success of the new arrangements.
I would also like to thank the ACP delegation for their support in this matter.
The situation in Sudan is awful.
It is mainly thanks to Mrs Hybášková that we managed to adopt the resolution without any dissenting votes, and that is quite a feat, considering the large number of African countries who were involved in this.
His particular interest, knowledge and expertise in relation to health issues have been of great importance to our work in that Assembly.
His report shows that the Assembly has grown in maturity over the last few years.
The Cotonou Partnership Agreement emphasises very clearly the importance of the Assembly, but omits to award enough importance, if any at all, to the role of national parliaments in our cooperation.
It is very important that the forms of cooperation we have continue beyond the meetings with our parliamentary colleagues so that we can support their efforts, as elected representatives, to conduct dialogue with their governments, to scrutinise the legislation and actions of their governments and to hold their governments to account.
Sadly, an inability to do this is often a feature of the relationship between parliaments and governments in developing countries.
As the rapporteur suggested, with reference to the Pan-African Parliament, there is often a lack of institutional capacity.
The JPA continues to grow and flourish, nurtured as it is by our determination to increase our effectiveness and to ensure that both our political voice and that of the parliamentarians from the ACP countries are heard.
We must therefore continue to ensure that we can effect change in the 77 developing countries concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Bowis for his report.
There are a lot of positive things to say about ACP cooperation and Mr&#160;Bowis’s work on strengthening the ACP-EU Assembly.
Given the concern felt by our colleagues in the ACP countries about budgetisation, I think it important for the role of the ACP-EU Assembly to be strengthened in those countries.
This situation damages our relations with other countries, for, as matters stand, we are forced to choose between votes on legislation and cooperation with other countries.
I would therefore ask the Conference of Presidents to review its decision and allow us to hold ACP meetings some time during the weeks in which the political groups meet, since no votes on legislation are held then and we can decide, internally in the groups, on our agendas. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to thank Mr&#160;Bowis for his constructive work.
We have obtained significantly more focused discussions, which largely has to do with the fact that we have a system in which we work in committees and prepare the topics.
Just as Mr&#160;Schlyter stated, involvement on our part in the committee work is disastrously low.
I completely agree with the demand to hold these meetings instead during the weeks in which the political groups meet so that there is a rather better presence on our part.
It is therefore striking that the International Criminal Court (ICC) is not mentioned even once in the entire report, in spite of its being one of the most important tools we have in this area.
We should do more in our Assembly to defend these countries both politically and economically when the United States withdraws its aid as a punishment. &#160;&#160; – (Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that almost everything which needed to be said about the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly during 2004 has already been said by previous speakers, following the excellent report submitted by Mr Bowis.
As far as I am concerned, given my recent membership of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I propose to make only three very brief points.
The first concerns the very limited response by civil society to the work of the Assembly.
Virtually no attention is being paid to it by the European public, which seems mistaken to me, in view of the fact that this type of experiment is original – indeed unique –in the world.
We should perhaps reflect on this fact and plan to achieve a genuine step change in the future.
The second point is related to the first and concerns the need to broaden the political dialogue, bringing it increasingly into the public domain.
Bearing in mind the current world situation, there is a powerful need to re-establish an open and frank dialogue between the countries of the North and those of the South.
We need to make progress decisively and patiently in the field of human rights and towards a strengthening of the International Criminal Court, in order to achieve greater mutual understanding.
The third and final point concerns the need to understand that greater political trust between the European Union and the ACP countries can also be achieved by the parallel creation of a firm base of economic relations, able to provide substance to the Cotonou partnership agreement.
This aim should also be seen in the context of the reform of the sugar regime, achieving a fair balance between the interests of European and of ACP countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to lend my voice, last but not least, to the chorus of congratulations to the rapporteur Mr&#160;Bowis on his excellent report.
He refers to the Joint Parliamentary Assembly as a forum for political dialogue several times in his report, and also encourages this Joint Parliamentary Assembly to strengthen the political dialogue and its own political role.
As has already been said several times, the creation of the Standing Committees is a good basis for improving the political role of the Joint Assembly, and I concur with what Mr&#160;Schlyter said: that we must consider how to improve their working methods.
This is not, of course, because we are unwilling to take part in them; in reality, though, when the committees of the European Parliament are meeting at the same time, we have to attend those, sometimes in order to take part in important votes. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The first is the successful completion of the 2004 round of enlargement, by fully integrating representatives of the new EU Member States into the EU institutions, as well as preparations for the next round of EU enlargement, when Bulgaria and Romania will join.
Nearly a year has already passed since the enlargement of the EU, but still many permanent positions which have been set aside for the new Member States remain vacant, and this is an unacceptable situation.
This priority encompasses such matters as: focusing EU institutional expenditure on fundamental tasks; backing requests for new permanent positions from the budget only after having assessed the possibility of redistributing resources and staff within the framework of the existing budget; backing new initiatives only after having assessed their impact on the budget and interinstitutional cooperation with a view to economical and effective use of budget resources.
For example, in order to ensure more appropriate use of EU budget resources in relation to various EU institutions’ needs for extra work space, chiefly in connection with EU enlargement, we invite all the EU institutions to work together and to allow their premises to be used for the requirements of other institutions.
This will make it possible to provide the work space necessary for various meetings and other events without unnecessary extra expense on building or renting premises.
As an example, we might mention the European Parliament plenary session halls in Brussels and Strasbourg, which lie empty most of the time.
Achieving a ceiling of 20% of total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself.
I would like to emphasise that a better explanation to citizens of the European Parliament’s work in this connection, placing particular emphasis on the European Parliament’s representative role for the EU Member States, is an important aspect of Parliament’s work in 2006.
Finally, I should like to say a few words about the overall EU budget for 2006.
It is, therefore, important that the total amount of 2006 budget commitment and payment appropriations should honour those commitments which the EU entered into, including those connected with the enlargement of the European Union.
Thus an attitude such as the EU Council adopted over the European Union budget for 2000, where it artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations, is unacceptable.
I therefore believe, Commissioner, that this is a good opportunity to demonstrate perfect interinstitutional cooperation and for the three institutions to approve this amending budget with the urgency you had requested. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I shall also present an amending budget, which implies a response.
It is the amending budget for Parliament’s financial year 2005, which must take account of the fact that staff salaries and pensions in 2004 were adjusted by a rate lower than had originally been expected.
The adjustment of salaries and pensions, adopted by the Council at the end of last year, only amounted to 0.7%, and, when we prepared the budget for this year, we anticipated a 2.6% increase in salaries.
Like the other EU institutions, Parliament can now, therefore, cut back the staff appropriations in the 2005 budget.
When all is said and done, we are, then, concerned here with a EUR&#160;7.98&#160;million reduction in the European Parliament’s expenditure on, for example, salaries and that is something to be welcomed.
In the same connection, we are directing the Secretary-General of the European Parliament to examine Parliament’s budget in July, to assess the situation and to see if we need another amending budget.
In 2004, the ‘mopping-up’ transfers of EUR&#160;190&#160;million made it possible to release a portion of the appropriations we have from the 2005 budget for buildings.
I am well aware that Parliament’s services are engaged in negotiations about further purchases of buildings that we are at present renting, but these are at an early stage, so we do not know what position we shall ultimately be in.
The fact is, however, that the appropriations we have in 2005 following the reduction for salaries will make it possible to fund important areas we do not at the moment have in the budget, notably the preparations for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, and they will perhaps also make it possible for us to purchase further buildings housing Parliament’s information offices in the Member States.
I also have a number of remarks to make concerning Mr&#160;Dombrovskis’ report on the 2006 budget, now that there is time for doing so.
This budget will, of course, also be characterised by the preparations for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania which, as Mr&#160;Dombrovskis pointed out, it is anticipated will take place in 2007.
It will also be characterised by the already completed enlargement to include ten new countries and by the continued need to recruit staff from the new Member States.
I think, however, that our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, is right to demand that we investigate whether the resultant staffing situation is satisfactory in all respects.
The quantity of legislation has, of course, risen significantly in recent years in view of the new treaties, and the demand for better legislation, with which we of course all agree, means that we must have proper legal guidance.
Last but not least, I am delighted that, in Parliament’s draft budget for 2006, we propose a significant strengthening of Parliament’s information policy.
It is also important for us to increase our efforts in favour of decentralisation by means of the information offices in the Member States where a better sense can be obtained of the practical needs that exist for information.
We are able to support his report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are three reports up for debate, and I should like to focus largely on two of them, because I fully agree with the content of my colleague Mr&#160;Garriga Polledo’s report, and indeed it probably requires the least discussion.
I should like to thank my colleague Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, in particular, for taking the trouble to tackle the budgets of the other institutions for 2006, because I think that 2006 will be a very important year as the financial negotiations with the Council unfold.
I should like to say very clearly – and here the rapporteur has my support – that if we are to be credible in our ongoing arguments with the Commission about how to make the best use of Europe’s scant resources, we must also look at how we and, in turn, the other institutions, can achieve the greatest possible effect with the minimum of resources.
I support our rapporteur’s approach of putting the spotlight clearly on the issue of working conditions in this regard.
This is a very important point if Parliament’s efficiency and ability to work are to be guaranteed.
This is incompatible with our voting system.
I would ask the Presidency of Parliament to proceed very carefully on these issues.
This brings me directly to Mrs&#160;Jensen’s report on supplementary budget No&#160;1/2005.
I find it most regrettable that, yesterday evening, the Presidency was not already able to release, within the framework of the supplementary budget, the resources that are likely to be surplus to requirements; in other words, to reduce the budget correspondingly.
This much must be stated very clearly here: if a ‘mopping-up’ transfer of EUR&#160;142&#160;million was made in&#160;2004 – which amounts to almost 10% of Parliament’s budget – I start asking myself whether there is any point in continuing to draw up a budget for this House if this budget ends up taking a completely different course, and thus what was put forward by the budgetary authority – which is what we are in the case of Parliament’s budget, by virtue of the gentlemen’s agreement – ends up being disregarded.
I am going to start with a few comments on Mrs&#160;Jensen’s report on the SAB for the European Parliament.
Through this report, we are also respecting our commitment to budgetary dialogue, as it still leaves the expenditure envisaged in the 2005 budget available to be spent, and even allows for financing Bulgaria and Romania’s accession to the Union with the non-allocated appropriations.
With regard to the report on the guidelines for the appropriations for the other institutions presented to us today by Mr Dombrovskis, first of all I must thank him for his excellent work, and for the speed with which he has enabled us to debate and vote on these guidelines in this March sitting.
Following in the tradition of our budgetary guidelines in this area, it is essential that all of the institutions continue the effort to complete enlargement with Bulgaria and Romania, which the 2006 budget must allow for.
Only a last-minute controversy on the measures to be put in place in the Court of Justice will lead my group to better verify some solutions proposed in Mr Deprez’s report.
Mr Dombrovskis’ report, backed up by the previous report by Mrs Jensen, points out that Parliament’s budget must enable it to equip itself with the additional resources to enable us to better respond to the scale of our task and the expectations of the citizens.
In our view, a reduction in Parliament’s budget below the agreed 20% cannot be envisaged until such time as the policy of purchasing various premises for Parliament to have a presence and to carry out its work has come to an end.
I would also like to draw your attention to professional assistance for MEPs, which must be increased.
When I hear some MEPs saying that it is difficult for them to join a pension scheme because of the cost of some of these schemes, I think that is entirely unworthy of the democratic institution that we are.
But we need to establish simple, daily and effective information to pass on and decentralise the interest among citizens in the work that we do here.
We see this as a priority that should not only be reflected in figures in the budget, but in good professional work by the ad hoc Parliament services.
It is therefore clear to us that the idea of lowering the Parliament budget below 20% is not acceptable given our commitments and, above all, the expansion of our powers.
I wish, even at this stage, to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, for his excellent work.
I likewise wish to thank Mrs Jensen and Mr Garriga Polledo, who today are proposing mainly technical amendments to this year’s budget, according to their own areas of responsibility.
The European Union is still going through a period of adjustment to the year 2006.
The integration of the new Member States has to be completed, just as the rapporteur said in his opening speech.
At the same time, it serves as a clear indication that the European Union, and the European Parliament in particular, are preserving basic democratic values.
The current system is unwieldy, even if it does add to the multinational nature of the EU.
There should be a natural solution to this in the future with the various parties concerned working closely together.
Parliament’s policy on property has brought results to the extent that it can at present operate almost entirely in the buildings it owns.
This is also what the report before us now aims at, stressing as it does the need for efficiency, reallocation of appropriations and interinstitutional cooperation.
That is why the report under discussion provides a good basis for discussion of the budget itself. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to confine my remarks to paragraph 28 of Mr&#160;Dombrovskis’ report, namely the paragraph applying to the costs that arise through Parliament being forced to work one week per month in Strasbourg, instead of concentrating its activities solely in Brussels.
These resources could instead be invested in technical research or something else that promotes growth.
The long-term budget should therefore include this cost, and a decision should be taken to move operations to Brussels by no later than 2013. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
On behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I should also like to thank Mr&#160;Dombrovskis for his knowledgeable and lucid report on the guidelines for the 2006 budget procedure with regard to the sections on the EU institutions.
In particular, the remaining positions for officials from the ten new Member States, most of which are for translators and interpreters, need to be filled.
The rapporteur was also right to stress the importance of making preparations for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, which is due to take place in 2007.
By way of an aside, it would be worth adding to this list something that was mentioned by previous speakers, namely improved communication from and to Strasbourg, and an increase in the efficiency of measures taken by the individual services of the EU institutions.
This could for example involve adherence to the principle whereby committee meetings are not held in Strasbourg, which might make it possible to avoid late-night sittings and sittings that do nothing to improve our mood or the efficiency of our actions.
I believe that greater attention should be paid to the fact that we are committed to providing reliable and neutral information, and it is particularly important that EU funding for information policy be spent accordingly.
All this is important for the European Parliament to fulfil its mandate as a multinational, multilingual institution that adopts essential European standards, rather than convey the impression of an agency for teaching English.
I thank you for your attention, and I thank the translators for their good work. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
Over the past decade, the interchange of these human substances, both within Europe and between Europe and third countries, has increased.
The fact that the exchange of tissues and cells can result in the transmission of disease has focused attention on the need for increased safety measures.
The European institutions responded to this concern by adopting a directive in March&#160;2004 establishing quality and safety requirements for human tissues and cells.
The directive ensures that an increasing number of patients in Europe treated with human tissues and cells can trust that these substances are safe and of good quality.
The directive has to be transposed by 7 April 2006 in all Member States.
On that date, it must, therefore, be applied in all Member States, including the United Kingdom, and will also be part of the Community to be implemented by Romania under the enlargement process.
As was made clear during the debate in Parliament leading up to the adoption of the directive, although fundamental ethical principles can be raised and endorsed, it is not possible to have binding Community regulations.
In that case, Member States define the conditions under which compensation should be granted.
This does not mean, however, that the directive is unclear on the conditions of exchange of tissues and cells.
This, of course, refers back to values that go beyond safety issues.
Both the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine of the Council of Europe prohibit turning the human body and its parts into a source of financial gain.
The Commission will monitor carefully the implementation of the tissues and cells directive in the current and future Member States.
We will do so with regard to its banning provisions and also with regard to the overall spirit of the directive, such as the principle of voluntary unpaid donation, clearly expressed in Article&#160;12.
To ensure proper interpretation in the candidate countries, the Commission organised a peer review in Romania and Bulgaria in 2004.
This review analysed the situation in the two countries and identified future actions to be taken to ensure compliance with EU requirements in this field.
The competent authorities of the two countries are willing to incorporate the principles of the directive into national legislation.
The Commission is conscious of the importance of encouraging the voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells of high quality and safety.
Thirdly, the directive on the use of human tissues and cells must be transposed into national legislation by April 2006 at the latest.
Egg donation, like organ donation as a whole, needs to be tightly controlled and monitored in order to protect people in fragile situations and prevent human beings from being exploited for their eggs.
I regret that the Greek initiative framework decision concerning the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues has not yet been adopted by the Council.
The differences between national legislation create a favourable environment for criminal networks that exploit these differences.
This is not just a subtle difference, but in truth it is a philosophical conflict on this very sensitive issue of donation and that donation being free of charge.
So, in the case of this Romanian clinic, is there or is there not payment and therefore trade in egg cells?
While I am on this subject, I think that it is important, before the entry into force of this directive concerning tissues and cells, for the Commission to present us with a report on the national legislation, on the donation of gametes and the payment systems in this area established by the Member States.
On these matters of research and ethics, the ALDE Group is very clear: it is not Europe’s job to harmonise ethics; subsidiarity must prevail and the countries that take a conservative position on this cannot prevent Europe from doing research on stem cells in order to respond to the hopes of millions of patients in genetic and cell therapy.
This is why, following our internal debate this evening, we will vote against paragraph 11.
Then, priority needs to be given to the common interests of donors and patients, in terms of access to these specific treatments, but also, of course, quality and safety at both ends of the chain.
Finally, the way to ensure safety and quality in gamete donation specifically, as in blood donation, is not only through it being free of charge but also through ensuring availability.
You just mentioned, Commissioner, the need for the Member States to include the issue of voluntary and free donation in their legislation.
Many Member States are perfectly aware of this and have already opened up the debate on this issue, like in Great Britain.
To conclude, I will refer to the first point in our resolution and the fundamental texts of the European Union.
I do not just mean by Parliament, as we plan to do with our resolution; it is also your duty, as the European Commission, to send out a crystal-clear signal that trade of this nature is prohibited, and that the Commission will do everything – absolutely everything – to put an end to this violation of human dignity.
The Commission must also give a real demonstration that it is serious about this, that it is carrying out its own investigations and perhaps even engaging its common sense and contacting the Government of Romania: which is after all a candidate country.
It must also make clear to the European public that trafficking in human beings and trading in human body parts are prohibited in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too naturally hope that the Commission really will take the information from Romania seriously.
Many hours ago, today’s debate concerned the Fourth World Conference on Women.
That must be unambiguous. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on the problem of trade in human egg cells would not be taking place if people had any awareness of the dignity and uniqueness of human beings, who were created by God Himself.
Any trade in cells or human organs would turn human beings into objects, and women’s wombs into incubators.
Gametes must not and cannot be compared to other tissues or blood.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is something highly obnoxious about any trade in human body parts or tissue.
Therefore, any trade in human egg cells that may be going on from Romania to the United Kingdom is utterly reprehensible and must be condemned.
It is therefore offensive and utterly wrong that women in economic need in poor countries are being offered financial incentives to become paid donors.
The understandable desire of childless couples to have children must not override the human dignity and health of the donors being exploited.
This is just such a case. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the removal of eggs from young Romanian women aged between 18 and 30 to create human embryos is one of the most heinous examples of the modern exploitation of women.
It also represents the greatest possible perversion of the principle of free movement of goods and services in our so-called developed European countries.
Those rules apply both to donors in the United Kingdom and to donors supplying anyone in the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, I received an e-mail today from Mrs&#160;Záborská, which she sent to all Members about a resolution by the General Assembly of the United Nations – resolution 59516 – on this specific subject, but which Mrs Záborská did not mention in her speech.
If this is the case, then we also need to allow the trade in other organs, for a fee, such as when obtaining kidneys.
It is a pity today, when we are celebrating Women's Day, to be debating a subject such as the exploitation of poor women in Romania. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are discussing this topic here today, partly because the European Union makes funds available for research into embryonic stem cells.
I have on a previous occasion expressed my surprise at this in this House, because this research is banned in some Member States and is incompatible with the resolution against all forms of human cloning which was adopted in the General Assembly today.
The Commission would, however, do well to examine whether or not it is itself partly responsible for this, because it uses European funds to promote research which is punishable in some Member States.
We agree on many issues, but I cannot understand why the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is planning to vote against paragraph 11.
Here, I think, it is important to stress the difference between trade and donation.
Voluntary donation often conceals the motivation to make a profit of a certain type and therefore to exploit the situation.
I therefore believe we need to be extremely careful, vigilant and clear.
Finally, I would stress that when we are discussing cells, it is important that the difference between cells in general and egg cells should be understood.
Here, it is important to ensure that Member States have the freedom to legislate, since the donation of eggs is not permitted in every country and this is an issue over which the Member States have jurisdiction. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, European legislation clearly states that human tissues may not be traded, purchased or sold.
Trade in organs and tissues goes on in various parts of the world, but its victims are inevitably the poorest of the poor, forced by poverty into selling valuable assets.
Although Europe has always opposed trade of this kind, it has always supported and continues to support voluntary and unconstrained donations, for example of blood.
That is why the directive stops short of dealing with the issue of payment, and simply expresses the spirit and philosophy of non-payment that should be implemented and followed by the Member States.
The Commission has limits on how much it can do in this respect.
While I understand the points of view expressed by some Members, I must make it clear that we have to comply with the directive and its philosophy of unpaid and voluntary donations, which is what guides the law that the Commission has to follow.
As far as the specific case is concerned, I once again remind you that we do not have legal competence and that it is not a question of direct investigation by the Commission.
We received a report from the UK authority and its independent agency and have no reason to doubt the results of that investigation.
Even though the directive states that ‘Member States shall endeavour to ensure voluntary and unpaid donations’, that does not mean that Member States cannot go beyond that and legislate, as I suggested in my speech, on such unpaid voluntary donations in a national context and even ban payments, provided that this can be justified on ethical, public morality grounds.
Given the realities of the Treaty, greater responsibility lies with the Member States than the European Community in this respect.
I can assure you that, within the scope of our competences, we will follow this matter very closely.
If we find there has been any violation of either the letter or the spirit of the directive we will report it and make it public. &#160;&#160; As I wind up the debate, I should like to state that I have received seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure (1). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commissioner has not answered all the questions put to him.
Commissioner, you have made many references to the Directive on tissues and cells, but the question has also been put as to whether this violates the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Otherwise, I believe that the main points raised have been answered. &#160;&#160; As I wind up the debate, I should like to state that I have received seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure(2).
The debate is closed.
