Misleading 'Directory companies' (e.g. 'European City Guides') (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on misleading directory companies, (e.g. 'European City Guides'), by Arlene McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection - B6-0152/2008).
We must, of course, recognise that these scams have been in existence for over 40 years, according to the legitimate directory publishers represented by the EADP.
By responding to the European City Guide, businesses were led to believe that they were simply responding to an information request or updating or correcting their data.
It is unacceptable, I believe, that the business complaints have fallen on apparently deaf ears and that the sole trader behind the City Guide has been allowed to continue to peddle his fraudulent practices without facing the full force of European law.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) I should like to thank Mrs McCarthy for her question.
I shall try to answer the question within the framework set by Mrs McCarthy.
With regard to the second question, about taking steps to close the loopholes in transposition of the Misleading Advertising Directive - the European Commission is responsible for this Directive and its implementation, as laid down in Article 211 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
So in my opinion, the European Parliament should address this question to the European Commission.
With regard to the possible extension of this Directive to business-to-business relations, I can only say that the Council will adopt a position on this issue as soon as an appropriate legislative proposal is put before it.
I should remind you that in addition to the Commission, most Member States also rejected the idea of extending the Directive to cover unfair commercial practices that do not harm the consumer.
Parliament's Committee on Petitions has received about 400 petitions from small businesses caught in this trap.
I believe there are three aspects to this issue.
Secondly, it will continue to encourage the Council and the Commission, in particular, to take clear action, because if they cannot take action today, they need to be in a position to do so.
We must surely protect consumers' rights against such pseudo-market actions and support them in their battle against companies that, in the current European reality, see themselves as completely beyond punishment.
Mr President, four years later we are at last having a debate on the European City Guides.
The tragedy with European City Guides is that it works because people are threatened and terrified.
I suppose I am celebrating slightly that we are having this debate and that my colleague, Simon Busuttil, is going to have a report and prepare information, but I think the Council needs to be a little more proactive on this, and indeed the Commission likewise.
In my view, this problem is enormous but we need to have it quantified.
But, in individual Member States, in your process of implementing that (and I have to say by the way the Member States have not done very well in implementing it, and even my own Member State is actually well behind), you could easily include a clause specifically including directories and small businesses in your implementation.
An organisation has been set up called 'Stop the European City Guide', an association of victims of this guide.
Mr President, I have dealt with 19 cases of people who have been fraudulently exposed to expenditure and to debt actions because of European City Guides.
That, I believe, will enable us to have some action across the border and to stop these people escaping the long arm of the law.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to speak.
I should also like to thank all our colleagues who have taken part in the debate.
I must stress, however, that the Commission is responsible for transposition of the directives.
The Unfair Commercial Practices Directive does not cover this segment.
Secondly, I wish to stress again that the Misleading Advertising Directive covers this area.
