Investigations conducted by the European Anti Fraud Office (OLAF) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Ingeborg Gräßle, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) - C6-0228/2006 -.
I am proud of the fact that we in the European Parliament and in the Committee on Budgetary Control were genuinely able to agree and that we remain in agreement.
I would like to thank all of you for your wide-ranging support for this work, because this support will represent a success for this Parliament and it is also necessary for its success.
We want to improve the legal protection for those involved in proceedings and to guarantee this protection throughout the entire OLAF investigation.
Times have changed since 2004 and 2006.
The largest part of OLAF's work now is not with the institutions but with external parties, conducting anti-fraud investigations throughout Europe and indeed throughout the world, wherever EU funds are spent.
The guiding principles behind the Commission's 2006 proposal were to strengthen the existing OLAF legal framework: a clearer governance set-up for OLAF; reinforced accountability and oversight; reinforced protection of persons under investigation and a reinforced framework for investigations and their follow-up.
The upcoming Czech presidency asked the Commission to present a concept paper on that in time for a working-level discussion scheduled during the latter part of its mandate.
The European Parliament will be fully involved in that.
For this reason, it is also important that the supervisory committee ensures OLAF's independence and, in particular, that the office of the Director General can in future be guaranteed by the Court of Justice.
It is also important that the rights of people who are summonsed or charged by OLAF are clearly demonstrated and this applies also to this House.
Of course, it is also important to collaborate with third countries and with other institutions in the Member States, in particular with courts of auditors at national and regional level, in such a way that the funds provided by Europe are used for their intended purpose and in the best possible way.
The system cannot work in this way.
Unfortunately, for many people the memories of the scandals of 1999 have already faded, along with any respect for the necessary independence of an anti-corruption authority.
The European Anti-Fraud Office rose from the ruins of Jacques Santerre's compromised European Commission, accused of corruption and nepotism.
Life has shown that OLAF is essential for the efficient functioning of EU administration; at the same time, its existence and operation send a signal to EU Member States, reminding them that European Union bodies are under constant supervision, control and examination.
Member States cannot regard OLAF as an enemy or a redundant institution.
As is well known, not all our 27 Member States have created specialist national-level services to coordinate combating financial abuses involving EU funds.
We need close cooperation between OLAF and Europol, as well as OLAF and Eurojust.
First of all, we are in favour of improved cooperation between OLAF and Eurojust when it comes to exchanging information on cross-border crimes between more than two Member States.
The cooperation agreement between OLAF, Eurojust and Europol is of huge importance.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, there have been countless scandals as a result of corruption, fraud and irregularities throughout the EU's history.
In this way, the role of the Director General of OLAF will also be more protected and have greater safeguards.
The solution is an independent OLAF which operates independently of the Commission and under competent supervision, that is not appointed by politicians but by public prosecutors of the Member States, until such time as a European public prosecution is formed. (DE) Madam President, the fact that the European Union has such a poor public image unfortunately has a great deal to do with OLAF.
This should not happen and I expect measures to be taken in this case. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, the Member States, Europol and Eurojust will now have to concern themselves on a regular basis with OLAF's findings.
The number of irregularities has increased dramatically and the amount of damages rose from EUR 43 million in 1998 to EUR 828 million in 2007.
That is why I am concerned that OLAF, which was born following the 1999 'Wise Men's' report - and that report called for it to be independent of the Commission - spends less and less of its time investigating internal Commission matters.
Certainly some of its other investigations are very sexy and exciting, but I am not convinced that Mrs Gräßle's report addresses the problems of OLAF's independence in this way.
Indeed, should we not - this Parliament that has banned spouses from working for MEPs - now extend this call to say that only one family member should work in any of the EU institutions to prevent such future conflicts of interests? (DE) Madam President, I believe that it is particularly important for OLAF to make a distinction between disinformation, which in some cases is controlled from outside Europe, and the bureaucratic treaties which are often 50 to 60 pages long and the manuals of over 600 pages, where, of course, the most errors occur.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate.
We want you to retain your influence on OLAF, but you must exert your influence in the right place and provide OLAF with more support than was previously the case.
I would like to reject two points.
I believe that the report in front of us is a good one. (DE) Madam President, I refer to Articles 145 and 149 on personal statements, which allows me three minutes.
