The Commission proposes to implement minimum rules that are applicable to all the Member States in this area - civil liability and financial guarantees - and to lay down rules that genuinely make it possible both to prevent accidents and to compensate for the damage caused.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, full compliance with international rules by the Member States could resolve problems that as we know are of an economic and social nature and concern environmental protection.
We are going to be able to legislate on a maritime safety package without any accidents having taken place.
We have worked hard on this matter, and I should like, in this regard, to thank all of my colleagues, in particular the other political groups, for the excellent work that we have been able to produce and for the outstanding vote that we have obtained, which testifies to a very strong desire from Parliament to genuinely signal its consent, today, to this 'maritime safety' package.
It naturally falls to me to present you with a report - and probably a rather complicated one at that - on the civil liability of shipowners and of financial guarantees responsible for basically covering damages to third parties.
Secondly, we believe that a regime for withdrawing the benefit of limitation of liability should be implemented for ships that belong to States that have refused to ratify the conventions, whether they be non-EU States or EU Member States that balk at doing so.
I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a text that does credit to the European Parliament and that drives the Member States into a corner.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (ES) The truth is that I am speaking not just on my own behalf but also on behalf of Antonio López-Istúriz, who was the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Savary report.
If it had been the other way round, the accident that recently took place in Gibraltar would surely have caused a further disaster on a huge scale.
If we look at the individual proposals for the flag States, then it is high time that all 27 Member States in the European Union complied with their obligations under the international convention in terms of inspecting their own vessels.
We are also calling for the 1996 HNS Convention and the 2001 Bunker Oil Convention to be applied at long last, which is surely not really an unreasonable demand of either the shipping industry or the Member States.
At this point I should like to express particular thanks to the two rapporteurs, my colleagues, Mrs Vincenzi and Mr Savary, because both reports are tricky in terms of content and politically very controversial.
That is why at this stage we should say once more to the Council - because there have clearly been misunderstandings - that the fact that we are debating these two reports today does not mean that we are giving up on the Erika III package with its seven dossiers, but rather that we are underlining the particular political importance of these two reports.
Maritime safety is an issue that is too serious to be the object of tactical manoeuvres: too serious for the experiences we have already had, for the accidents that we have already suffered, and too serious for us not to predict that increasing maritime traffic will lead to greater risks in the future.
I should like to begin by pointing out that this specifically European approach does not seem incompatible with the overall approach within the International Maritime Organisation (IMO).
Furthermore, I would add, Mr President, echoing, for the most part, the committee's work, that I do not share the Council's reluctance and I am therefore going to go back over some amendments.
Thus, Amendments 43, 44 and 52 really pose problems for me, and I cannot accept them.
Lastly, I should like to mention Amendments 4 and 12, which provide the Member States' authorities and private operators with the opportunity to refer directly to the Committee on Safe Seas and the Prevention of Pollution from Ships.
The financial guarantees should be reliable and accessible, which is why we are proposing that public authorities check, a priori, that the insurance cover is sound and why we are stipulating that victims should be able directly to address insurers, in order to invoke their rights.
However, it is true that the directive makes provision, in certain cases, for the benefit of the limitation of civil liability to be withdrawn from shipowners, so that victims can obtain compensation that is commensurate with the damage caused.
Therefore, Mr President, honourable Members, one can say that this proposal for a directive definitely moves our maritime law forward.
You have introduced new provisions that we feel are precious, more specifically Amendments 16 and 17 on the obligation for Member States immediately to ratify the conventions that are pending.
They are Amendments 23, 26 and 27, which refer to the creation of a new Community office for managing guarantee certificates.
I should like once again to thank the rapporteurs, to thank Mr Costa and all of the members of his committee, and to thank Parliament in general for this excellent piece of work which, I hope, will enable us to move in the direction of such maritime safety, which we need now more than ever, in view of the development of maritime transport.
