Parliament did this for the last time on 11 March 1999.
That is why we are urging him to make a statement on the human rights situation in Cuba.
Mr President, I regret the fact that we are discussing this matter once again.
I do not intend to allow a debate on this subject.
Mr President, I have no comments with regard to the Minutes, but I have unfortunately missed a large proportion of this interesting discussion because there are no Dutch interpreting services available at the moment.
If there is no Dutch interpreting, then can I please ask the Sittings Service to do something about that.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has held negotiations with the Council presidency so that this scheme can be introduced within this year.
That is why my committee is supporting this request for urgent procedure.
BSE and foot-and-mouth disease have raised many issues.
The situation that I have described, together with the prospects of enlargement and the new round of negotiations at the World Trade Organisation, is determining the shift in the focus of our system of agricultural production.
We must start discussing this issue before 15 September.
We attach the greatest importance to monitoring he implementation of the budget and to creating an effective link between such evaluations and the adoption of supplementary budgets and even of the budget for the following year.
The potential for the EU' s external action justifies making sufficient funds available and also justifies the requirement for greater efficiency.
My fifth point is that we must be committed to achieving the objectives laid down at the Lisbon European Council, specifically the objectives of making a real contribution to creating more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
The e­learning initiative must be ambitious because it is so crucial.
I live in an island region, which, under the terms of Article 299 of the Treaty, is called an 'outermost' region.
It will not come as a surprise to anyone that enlargement will also be one of the Committee on Budgets' key challenges in the next few years.
The preparatory activities generate costs, even before enlargement has actually taken place.
The financial perspective must therefore reflect these extra needs.
That is why we are asking the institutions to make their budgets more transparent.
The institutions will need to display more than budgetary discipline.
Equal treatment, not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of all the grounds for discrimination listed in Article 13 of the Treaty.
I would therefore ask the institutions to look into the barriers to equal treatment, the measures required to remove these barriers and the impact this has on the budget.
The institutions need to make use of the amendments to the EMAS Regulation, as a result of which organisations like ours can now also take part in Community' s audit system governing environmental management and the environment.
I would like to discuss all 35 paragraphs from the report with you in detail, and I know that you enjoy this subject matter just as much as I do, but I need to restrain myself, not only from a human point of view, because my fellow MEPs have heard the same tale a few times now, but also from a budgetary point of view.
I will therefore merely indicate a few aspects by way of thumbnail description, namely the importance of paying off the buildings as soon as possible via capital injections, the drafting of a statute for European political parties, and the statute for assistants.
Only by means of a transparent budget can Parliament exercise democratic control on the spending of European funding.
Because while we are debating this report here, the Council is also debating this same proposal and it is therefore possible that, if an agreement is reached, we will not be able to vote on the resolution today, but rather we will have to ask for the report to be returned to committee in order to ratify the agreement with the Council and vote on it on 2 and 3 May.
The other institutions do not agree.
We believe that a perspective such as this will allow a more harmonious development of the implementation of the Structural Funds.
And this is the question on which, after yesterday' s meeting - where we heard an intervention from the Commission in which it gave us details on the state of negotiations of the new programming - we believe that we are perfectly able to reach an agreement within a reasonable time scale, which the Council could accept and which would solve the problems of Greece, Spain and Italy in particular in relation to future programmes.
I simply wish to defend these positions and say that, in the spirit of honest cooperation between institutions, it would in no way violate any article of the Treaty if the date set in the Interinstitutional Agreement, 1 May - which, by the way, is not a working day - were delayed until 2 May, which is the day Parliament meets.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation is very concerned that the EDF is still not budgeted.
There is now something called the Joint Parliamentary Assembly of the ACP and EU, the only parliamentary assembly in the world which does not look at a budget.
Transport and communication has been old-fashioned stuff that has been put in the budget year after year, but there are new technologies that we also need to take into account.
I hope that we will be able to conclude the Colom i Naval report with a Council agreement within the not too distant future.
With regard to the Costa Neves report, I believe that the rapporteur has set the right tone.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to make an observation with regard to the employment programmes.
Over the past few years, this Parliament, the Commission and the Council have developed all kinds of employment programmes.
In any case, we will be taking a closer look at those employment projects and the issues surrounding open coordination in general, and will draw the necessary conclusions.
One of these tasks - the asylum and immigration policy, including the fight against criminal networks - clearly occupies a central position and I should like to thank the general rapporteur for having taken this up expressly in his draft resolution.
Lastly, I should like to draw the Commission' s attention to the difficult problem that the European Union will face in the future, which is the effective control of its external borders.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Costa Neves for his cooperation, congratulate him on his report and tell him that the priorities in the field of external policy are perfectly clear: enlargement, which does not come within heading 4; the prevention of conflicts and crisis management; the reconstruction of the Balkans; the European Union' s Mediterranean policy; the Nordic dimension, of course, and cooperation and improvement in human rights fields.
In the context of export refunds and of a new EU agricultural authority, which is now on the cards, we should also try to continue the trend of further reducing expenditure in respect of exports, where it is still very high.
This would not only make it easier for us to energetically defend our position at WTO level, but would also increase our overall flexibility as regards agriculture and rural development.
In other words, despite all the problems that the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises are currently creating for us, we would like to see Commission's preliminary draft budget containing the first positive steps towards the much-needed reform of EU agricultural policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the priorities of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the 2002 general budget.
The first point relates to the issue of statistical information, or rather the lack of it.
Lastly, it should be ascertained whether the Prince programme can be continued during the first six months of the year 2002 to tackle the particular difficulties of small and medium-sized businesses which have still not made sufficient preparations for the switch to the euro, partly because of their financial resources, in contrast to larger companies and banks. (Applause) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on establishing a clear set of priorities.
I particularly welcome the emphasis on food safety and consumer confidence and improving the implementation of the EU budget.
However, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I have to express my concern at the absence of any major areas of this committee's priorities in these guidelines.
The committee's opinion has been appended but I would urge the rapporteur and the Commissioner to accord the following areas greater emphasis during this year's budgetary process.
First, the funding for the information society does not really correspond to the importance attached to it by the Heads of State or Government when it was launched with much fanfare at Lisbon.
If we are to really connect the EU to its citizens, we must put our money where our mouth is.
However, the EU, and more importantly the EU budget, has never taken this on board.
We must avoid a situation similar to last year where industry across Europe was brought to a standstill by a small group of people.
One is that there should be a proper database so that citizens can follow their petitions through the Internet.
Secondly, in preparation for enlargement, whatever language regime we choose, preparations must be made to enable citizens of the applicant countries to petition this Parliament in their own language.
Finally, I should like to make the point that the Committee on Petitions does not require money, but that it does require the support of Parliament, the Commission and the Council so that it can have access to documents.
But I can tell you that at present there are a number of petitions - for instance the Lloyd's petition - concerning which the Commission and Council are refusing Parliament access to information.
The number one topic is, of course, the problem of how, in view of the foot-and-mouth crisis and the BSE situation, we can take budgetary measures - and all of this has an impact on the budget - to achieve sustainable agriculture guaranteeing optimal consumer protection and so that we can also sell European products in other parts of the world.
The Council really must consider if everything it is doing in this way is advisable.
I have already mentioned the subject of enlargement and foreign policy, an area in which we are into our third year of special arrangements.
We are talking about the Sixth Framework Programme on Research, which we want more money for.
I can accordingly only ask the Council to finally come clean here - to drop their trousers, as we say in German - and adjust the financial perspective, as otherwise we will not be in a position to meet what is required and expected of Europe in budgetary terms in the long run.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your comment, Mr Schmid, you saved me from having to say the same thing.
Of course, the world has changed over the last few weeks and months, and I will make no secret of the fact that over the last few years I have repeatedly asked whether the financial resources for one thing or another really are adequate in view of the acute problems we are faced with.
This is not a subject that can just be brushed aside because a new and more serious problem has arisen, and perhaps one that affects us more directly.
Rebuilding the Balkans and providing peacekeeping forces, providing support for the people there, are also issues that impact on the future viability of Europe as a whole.
But social inclusion - as Neena Gill has already said - also means that with the advent of new technology everyone must have an opportunity to participate in this society.
The 2002 budget guidelines clearly show the budgetary policy the European Parliament is to adopt.
Parliament wants to simplify EU administration and make it more efficient, underline the importance of the personal responsibility of officials, improve the way the budget is implemented, strengthen economic development and promote sustainable agriculture.
We shall return to this subject in connection with the discharge procedure for 2000.
One particular problem is the agricultural budget.
The BSE crisis is jeopardising the entire budget because of the need for extra storage and exports.
The Council is developing its own military crisis management organisation and has asked, among others, for 51 new posts in the second supplementary budget in the middle of the budgetary year.
The guidelines should not, of course, go into detail; they should clarify the EU's priorities for next year, budget year 2002 that is.
We hope that the mid-term review of Agenda 2000 to be undertaken now will lead to the necessary reform measures being taken, and that it will also result in Parliament being given a greater role in formulating agricultural policy.
We regard this as necessary first and foremost because our agricultural policy has led to a widespread collapse of trust amongst the public.
We must utilise these appropriations.
In this area in particular there is an urgent need for a reform of EU policies to ensure that eastward enlargement is affordable and feasible in the long term.
We hope that the additional staff the Commission acquired last year will also lead to greater efficiency in this area.
Let us take note of our weakness, now, in economic terms, and let us endeavour to produce a budgetary policy which will reinvigorate our economy and boost its development.
It appears that EUR 14 190 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 7 988 million in payment appropriations were not implemented in 2000.
We need to learn from the mistakes we made in the past, and economise as a Parliament.
Furthermore, the Union must cut back its activity to those areas of policy where European action clearly adds value.
We can do very little at European level to have large social programmes of the kind to which I think you were referring.
What strikes me most in these two budgets is the emergence of interinstitutional cooperation, which ten years ago was perhaps more of a wish than a practice.
I have in front of me the Council priorities, although for the first time in history no one is here to represent the Council.
Those who were present in December last year will remember that when Parliament put forward this joint declaration, no one in the Council actually welcomed it.
So I certainly welcome the fact that they wish to cooperate with us in trying to reduce the backlog of commitments, in trying to make sure that there is a better parallel between the legislative and budgetary procedures and that performance targets are set, particularly in Category 4 in external policy.
Lastly, on external policy, our rapporteur has indicated the need to set priorities.
Turning to the Buitenweg report, I should also like to emphasise the very clear emergence of interinstitutional cooperation in environmental and transport matters and as regards an interinstitutional recruitment office - which I very much hope will soon be up and running, to ensure that European citizens get the best value for money.
We have had our discussions on the 2001 budget on that particular matter, and will certainly be looking to have these proposals applied within Parliament if possible.
But most important - and here I address the Secretary-General of Parliament - is the letter which the president of my group sent to the President of Parliament yesterday about the absolute need to have a multi-annual plan for enlargement before the first reading of Parliament's budget so that we can get a grip on what is likely to come in terms of expenditure in linguistic services and a whole range of other matters.
We would like to promote that, respecting the fact that each institution has the right to take its own decisions.
I hope that we will come to the right decisions concerning value-for-money for the citizens of Europe.
They are relative newcomers to our committee and they have shown their grasp of what our committee is about.
With this type of guideline we will not go far wrong as we go through this year.
The big problem that we have had in the last two years has been with Category 4, especially the Balkans, trying to get the correct amount of money, having arguments with the Council, using the flexibility instrument and all in all not having a satisfactory procedure.
Having said that, we still await the World Bank report on the needs of Serbia.
Even with that type of statement, we will not be in the same situation on trying to find the funds for Category 4 for next year.
We will see problems arising in the future with Category 5.
The present SAB 2 for 2001, as Markus Ferber mentioned earlier, is causing some people concern, not just about the needs of the Council in that SAB but also about what it is going to do to the margin of Category 5.
We stressed that there is a need for the three institutions to get together as soon as possible to start talking about the margins - especially in Category 5, but we have to start looking at Categories 3 and 4 as well.
Foot-and-mouth is certainly raging in the Member State I come from and in the region that I represent.
The Council and Commission have made it quite clear that there will be no new money next year in Category 1.
Whatever the consequences of these two diseases, the money will have to be found from within Category 1.
The fourth point on the Costa Neves report is the Commission reforms referred to in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9.
On the Buitenweg report, can I comment on the fact that enlargement is a problem.
This is what Mr Elles was touching on and I am trying to be more subtle by saying that what we need to be doing is looking now at what the needs of enlargement are, and once again talking with the other institutions to look at a revision for enlargement.
We need to resolve this between the three institutions.
The Colom i Naval report seems to have caused a lot of problems recently but hopefully we will have a solution in the very near future and those in the Member States who have been ringing around and those in the Commission who have been - dare I say - panicking can put their minds at rest.
Finally there is the Haug report which no one else has mentioned but I need to mention it.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the three rapporteurs for their fine reports and add that I definitely believe that these reports indicate that we consider the budget a political instrument.
The three reports establish a number of obvious political priorities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we support the majority of the 2002 budget guidelines, namely those that give priority to food safety and the BSE crisis and some general measures on immigration, unfortunately, the resolution is guilty of abuses that our group cannot accept because they are detrimental to the interests of farmers.
Our group is not in favour, therefore, of paragraph 11 of the resolution, which not only demands that the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory spending be abolished, but also that agricultural legislation should now be brought under the codecision procedure.
But as we all know, there is more than one way to skin a cat, so the real question is how we intend to achieve this objective in practice.
We have always argued that interinstitutional cooperation is the best way to make progress in a budgetary negotiation.
We have even argued this at the most tense moments in relations between the Council and the European Parliament.
Nevertheless, experience tells us that clear and very specific guidelines promote consensus in this House.
Also, adjusting the financial perspective because of the lack of implementation of the 2000 budget has become a crucial issue for Parliament.
The consensus proposal presented by the Commission satisfies the two concerns of both budgetary authorities: firstly, it does not raise the overall figure for appropriations until the end of the programming period, as the Council wants, bound as it is by the budgetary limitations of the Member States; and, secondly, it transfers most of the commitment appropriations until the end of the period, which favours compliance with the Berlin agreements, which is what this Parliament demanded.
We therefore hope that the Council can give the green light to this proposal, on which, through the Committee on Budgets, this Parliament has already expressed its favourable opinion.
It is true that modifying the scale of commitment appropriations could create certain negotiation problems for the Commission with particular Member States, especially in relation to programmes yet to be approved in Objective 1.
However, the agreement we may reach envisages a further month of negotiations between both institutions and also provides a further four weeks to approve these new programmes in Brussels, especially those which relate to Objective 1.
Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the worst option would be not to have the opportunity to rebudget, because that would mean losing more structural appropriations, which were possibly going to be lacking at the end of the period.
If the Council reaches an initial agreement today, we should not have any problems reaching a final agreement and, in any event, I repeat, we have sufficient time before 3 May for this agreement to come to fruition.
On occasions, we in this House complain about the Commission' s lack of initiative, trapped as it is between two other institutions which hold different positions, and having very little room for manoeuvre.
I welcome the emphasis she has put in the adoption of ABB because I believe it is critical to the future transparency of all the EU institutions and will affect how they will work.
I also wholeheartedly support the emphasis in these guidelines on enlargement and the implications of decisions taken at Nice.
What is needed is the joint comprehensive strategy that this report calls for, encompassing all aspects of enlargement both in the short term and in the longer term.
We have therefore asked for each institution to present a strategy setting out how it sees the impact of enlargement on its services.
That is why my group is very concerned about paragraph 12 which asks for figures to be included in the PDB before we have actually debated a strategy.
Secondly, I have further concerns about the wisdom of including paragraph 19 in these guidelines because it asks for a full review of all the standing committees at the halfway mark in this Parliament.
All this will achieve is greater disruption and confusion, and it goes against the level of planning we are asking from all the institutions elsewhere in the report.
It is difficult to recall a more challenging time for agriculture and the future of European farmers.
BSE and foot-and-mouth have added a new and unexpected dimension to the European agenda.
The psychological impact on farmers and rural communities is considerable.
With both BSE and foot-and-mouth farmers by and large are innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control.
Mr President, first of all I want to say that we very often discuss the budget as if it were an end in itself.
The people of Europe want a budget that serves their interests and a budget that serves the political objectives of the European Union.
The long-term objectives of the European Union should be served as best we can by the budget.
In sitting down to draw up our long-term plans we should recognise the interests of the Union, its cohesiveness, its solidarity and its influence in the world.
Mr Wynn says that the Council says there is no more money: absolute rubbish!
Today, when the British farmers have a major problem, are we going to change the rules of the game and refuse to give the British farmers the assistance to which they are entitled under the Treaties?
The European Union cannot add insult to that injury by saying that it is not its responsibility that they have a serious problem in the area of foot-and-mouth.
There is plenty of money to resolve the problem for the next two years and following that we can still have that 1.27% which I hope will finance enlargement.
We have in actual fact undertaken to receive new countries as Member States in time for the European elections in 2004, and most of us are probably agreed that this is a great and historic commitment of ours and something which should also be reflected in the Budget guidelines.
In this connection, I believe there are two things which must happen with immediate effect.
Mrs Buitenweg' s guidelines are excellent in the way they address the issue.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, each year, at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, we face the challenge of responding to a public which is justifiably concerned and to the challenge of discovering whether we are capable of achieving a serious and effective balance in order to guide the next budget in such a way that taxpayers will know on what, how and why the European Union is going to spend their money.
Although immigration, the repercussions of enlargement on agricultural spending, the animal health crisis and consumer protection generate disquiet and concern throughout the Union, the sectoral problems must also be responded to within these budgetary guidelines.
I would ask for solidarity for the fisheries sectors in Spain and Portugal.
If that is not the case, we must really examine how this overhaul can be financed, and it is questionable whether, for example, a consumer levy for food produced in a sustainable manner should not be introduced in the EU, given the fact that such a levy has been in place for many other products for a long time.
There are two very well known approaches to moving forward here, namely investment in training and in research.
We must advocate concrete measures in this area, as companies with less than 250 employees after all account for 60% of GNP and 60% of employment in Europe.
In other words, the new countries will expect and should obtain funding for their requirements.
We have watched with interest the development of the budgetary process so far and we thank the two rapporteurs who have produced a good report along the right lines.
The area of agriculture remains largely untouched and much more work needs to be done on greening the Structural Funds and other areas of the Commission's activity.
With regard to the spending of money external to the Union, particularly in Eastern and Central Europe, we would hope that the Commission will focus its efforts, particularly through the Phare Programme and other projects guaranteeing the implementation and enforcement of European Union legislation.
These countries have signed up to the acquis communautaire and we expect them to satisfy its requirements before they enter the Union.
As regards public health, an area of competence that was enlarged during the Amsterdam Treaty and is currently undergoing reform, we would hope that the outcome of that reform will be an enlarged programme on public health issues and that the Commission will accept that and find the necessary funding - which inevitably will mean more than they are spending now.
Whilst the legal justification for action in the area of public health is clear, it seems to me that there is still a lack of clarity with regard to the legal basis for action by the Commission in some other areas.
I would ask the Commission to renew its efforts to clarify the legal basis for some areas of action in the field of the environment.
There are two other important issues which I want to bring to the attention of the Commission.
Finally, we have long argued in this Parliament about the problem of the subsidy on tobacco production in southern Europe and the other issues related to tobacco production.
We need a new initiative from the Commission on this.
These questions demonstrate that the EU's budget planning must be flexible enough to cope with unforeseen expenditure.
Today we are debating the priorities for the 2002 budget, and this is the first time, as has already been emphasised, that all three institutions involved in the budgetary process - the Council, Parliament and the Commission - have identified their priorities at this stage.
Mr Costa Neves, setting priorities is the first building block for cooperation on the budget for any given year.
For my part I would like to offer full cooperation so that we get a good budget and good budget implementation in 2002.
The framework for next year's budget is determined by the financial perspective, by Agenda 2000, which has been referred to so often.
At any rate, in accordance with the financial perspective, an increase in absolute agricultural policy expenditure of EUR 2.5 billion is possible next year as compared with this year.
These are still on the Council's table.
As you know, the EU budget has to reimburse 60% of certain expenditure incurred by the Member States in connection with foot-and-mouth.
In all areas of policy, including agricultural policy, we keep asking whether all the expenditure is justified.
Given that 1 May is a holiday, I think that 2 May would be just as good.
Mr Costa Neves, on behalf of Parliament, you have identified some further priorities for the next budget that I would like to comment on.
Many people are brought here by gangs of traffickers.
Of course, the issue of equipping classrooms with computers or giving schools Internet access is above all a matter for the Member States, under the principle of subsidiarity.
But at the same time it is naturally a good thing if all the Member States adopt ambitious targets.
Financial aid for meeting these objectives is available from several EU programmes, and this should be made more visible to the public, so that it is clear to them what their money is being spent on at EU level.
In other words, this is a good example to demonstrate that EU taxes are not just spent on emergency actions such as culling cattle, but that these taxes are also being invested in the future of the rising generation.
I would like to take this opportunity to stress how important it is for the reform of the Commission to bring the peer group evaluation process to a satisfactory conclusion, so that the 317 Commission posts in priority areas can be filled.
That is why implementation issues have quite rightly been addressed in priority setting by the Council, Parliament and the Commission.
The decision that the budgetary authority will present weekly figures on budget implementation means, and I am proud to say this, that the Commission will really be in the vanguard of the movement for greater budgetary transparency.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
It is willing to present a working paper on the state of play regarding the collection of own resources to us at the beginning of the budget process.
However, it is also no secret that on this issue the Council's approach is just as unwieldy as the rather long title of the regulation whose amendment we are discussing right now.
The Council is simply refusing to cooperate with Parliament on this - and not just refusing to cooperate but refusing to grant Parliament some of its parliamentary rights.
That is why I am utterly convinced that my colleagues, including the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, will firmly support us when we insist that there should at least be a discussion with the Council on our own resources.
This Parliament has tried, through every means possible, to influence the Council on its new decision on own resources.
The modification of the European System of Accounts, from the replaced 1979 system to the more representative 1995 system, is a good measure which will allow a more realistic and representative revenue since it will provide a more accurate reflection of the accounts of each Member State.
We fully accept the first amendment, in particular because it refers to the neutrality of this change in the system of accounts.
We therefore also fully recommend the second amendment.
The third amendment, if we take account of the comments of our Chairman, Mr Wynn, may be a little more complicated, but I believe we must vote in favour on this amendment and then we see what result it has later.
In any event, the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1999 allows us to hold a dialogue on own resources.
The collection system for contributions is a complicated political game that results in Member States attempting to maximise their own benefits and minimise what they pay out.
The increase in portage from 10% to 25% was a clear concession to the countries with large ports.
There are a hundred million inhabitants in the new Member States, representing only 4% of GNP, however.
What we are talking about now is instead of using the old 1975 basis to use the new statistical basis so as to avoid statistical double counting or costly re-accounting procedures that lead to many errors.
Here in Parliament this has been dealt with by the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The latter supports the Commission proposal without reservation, whereas the Committee on Budgets has now formulated various amendments.
Mrs Haug, the Commission cannot accept these last two amendments, although we have agreed to comply with Parliament's wish - the wish of the Committee on Budgets - to provide more information on the collection of own resources in a working paper.
The Commission regrets this, as the Court of Auditors and also the Committee on Budgetary Control have repeatedly criticised the Commission for using the old statistical basis for calculating VAT contributions when collecting own resources.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mrs Theato, as always, you are very well informed.
We take good note of its absence.
The 1998 discharge decision was postponed in April 2000 and discharge was subsequently granted in July 2000, but all this leaves a lot to be desired.
Parliament therefore certainly did the right thing when it called on the Commission to arrive at a positive Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2003 at the latest.
The Fléchard case in particular has made it clear that the role of an independent Financial Controller is vital in determining whether a fraud case is admitted or not.
You only have to look at Annexes I and II to the Blak report to see that the rapporteur received 22 of the audit reports he requested and, believe it or not, did not receive 11 reports.
I think these figures speak for themselves.
The framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament has dealt a fatal blow as regards this inadequate access to information.
As you know, that agreement was approved here in the House in July 2000 without our having an opportunity to debate it.
This framework agreement is driving a wedge between Members and is creating a two-tier Parliament.
I would also like to remind you that last December we agreed, by adopting the Morgan report, that in future we would defer discharge if the Commission had not made available all the documents requested.
The Commission is now aware that the threat is real.
We must cooperate with all those forces that wish to make European cooperation more efficient and open.
I have therefore collaborated with all the political groups represented in the Committee.
We shall now see whether the fine words can be put into practice.
However, there is a complex interplay between the Commission and the Council, Parliament, the Court of Auditors, OLAF and the Member States.
I therefore made a great effort to incorporate all the institutions in my report.
Time and again, it has tabled proposals for countering malpractice, fraud and over- charging and, time and again, Parliament and the Council have voted against these.
I have other things to say, but I shall return to these at the end of the debate.
And we also want continuous support between the services of the European Parliament and the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, so that we can implement what we decide and vote on.
Hence the proposal and the decision to create a standing committee consisting of the rapporteur for discharge and the person responsible for Parliament, together with parliamentary officials, to monitor progress in and the implementation of the measures which will be proposed and which we shall vote on here tomorrow.
Whilst the Council granted discharge to the same Santer Commission unthinkingly, this Parliament did take its responsibilities seriously.
However, the Committee on Budgetary Control believes that the monitoring procedure could be far more effective still.
This confidence is a pre-condition for the further political success of European integration, and that confidence can only be regained by maximum transparency.
The Court of Auditors must report on the Council' s spending in the same way as it does for other institutions.
We should really close this chapter once and for all.
All that remains for me is to congratulate the many honourable Members who have been involved in the discharge, on their reports.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has mainly adopted a restrained and intelligent stance by granting discharge to the Commission, but under strict conditions.
In accordance with decisions taken earlier, it will cease in July 2002.
Preparations have been made for its expiry, and in the last few years, the ECSC has not collected tax payments from companies in the coal and steel industry to finance its operations.
In recent years preparations have been under way to wind it down in July 2002.
In accordance with decisions taken earlier on, these will form a research fund, managed by the Commission.
The most striking observation made by the Committee on Budgetary Control on the accounts for 1999 is that it was impossible to assess how efficient the Commission had been in managing ECSC funds.
The committee did receive from the Commission, however, an undertaking to produce this information for the year 2000, after which it will be possible to compare the market return the Commission received on investments with possible earnings received via other channels.
The minor irregularities discovered in the ECSC accounts from past years were corrected after 1999, and the committee has no special remarks to make with regard to granting discharge in the normal manner.
I too regard it as an enormous problem that the Council is not present for this debate.
Parliament is making an effort in the case of this discharge to strike a very careful balance between the urgently required verification work needed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and this is just as important, the issue of a further loss of confidence in the European institutions.
So as rapporteur for the Development Funds I have given considerable thought to whether I can really call for postponement of the discharge.
But this is a clear decision, and I have the full support of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
So this is not a question of a lack of confidence in the relevant Commissioner, but rather an attempt to make it clear that the action plan he produced in conjunction with Parliament during the 1998 discharge one year ago is precisely the right answer to the problems before us, so that we as the Committee responsible and as Parliament wish to incorporate the first results from this action plan in our discharge procedure.
I wish to point out that the positive DAS contained in the Court of Auditors' report has to be seen in relative terms, because the Court of Auditors has responded to oral and written questions by commenting that it naturally has some problems here, and that it cannot audit 77 countries and 205 projects itself, so that it is dependent in this area on cooperation with the countries in receipt of aid, and that a great deal of work still remains to be done in this field.
The Commissioner responsible for my area seemed to be far too tentative and anxious, and in my capacity as rapporteur I received information late, after the deadline or not at all.
I also think that his staff's reference to the framework agreement with Parliament is not very helpful as a means of creating confidence on the part of the rapporteur and as a means of ensuring that we work together constructively on this.
The Commission must in future act in a more transparent and impressive way, and display greater confidence in its dealings with Parliament, so that we can jointly bring the discharge procedure to a satisfactory conclusion.
We are certainly willing to admit that in this area control needs to be handled more carefully.
The control process in a developing country must take as its starting point the notion that there is always corruption with development aid and consideration needs to be given to what sort of action to take in a given country.
Thank you very much, Mrs Rühle.
We would still be within the time limits at the part-session of 2 and 3 May, and the Committee on Budgets, meanwhile, could confirm its agreement at its meetings of 24 and 25 April.
I would therefore draw the attention of the House to the fact that I abstained in the vote on this report, but that the lady pensioners have instructed me to say that they are willing to renounce all cosmetics if the national governments and Europe decide to take five years off their age, stating their dates of birth as five years later and thus making them five years younger without the need for cosmetic make-up.
If we really want to protect children then surely those people would have voted to ban the use of fragrances in baby products.
We really should take account of animal welfare.
Therefore I would not like my vote and those of the others in my group who supported that amendment to be misconstrued.
The United Kingdom has already banned animal testing.
Secondly, our group considers it necessary to abstain because its two amendments on time limits for the end of marketing and for the end of experimentation have not been accepted.
Since our group is in favour of setting dates, both for the end of marketing and for the end of experimentation, we consider it appropriate to extend the deadlines proposed by the rapporteur in such a way that the prohibition of marketing will take place within ten years of the approval of the revision and the prohibition of experimentation will be delayed by two years, in the event that alternative available methods are not found for cases in which ingredients, or mixtures of ingredients, may cause serious dermatological or ocular damage I welcome the adoption by the European Parliament of the report by German Socialist MEP Dagmar Roth-Berendt, which calls for a ban on the testing of animals and the introduction of proper labelling so that consumers can make an informed choice.
We are sure the Member States will note the emphatic majority expressed here.
It is a vote to ban animal-tested products where alternative tests exist, to phase out animal tests over a 4-year period and to phase in a marketing ban in an agreed period thereafter.
As long ago as 1993, this Parliament decided to institute a sales ban on cosmetics tested on animals, but the introduction of this ban has been continually postponed under pressure from the industry.
It is high time that the European market closed its doors to the import of all products obtained in an unacceptable manner.
Having said that, in relation to the Haug report, which I voted for, I have to say that the European Union needs greater financial resources.
The Member States must decide whether they want Europe or not, and if they want Europe and consider it useful, they must furnish it with the necessary means for it to run smoothly and properly.
Sacconi report (A5-0092/2001): Madam President, I voted against the Sacconi report on the environmental problems of PVC, which are therefore problems that also relate to differentiated waste collection as well.
The invention of plastics and the development of a chemical industry appeared to offer unknown opportunities for a long time.
After a certain length of time, PVCs release chlorine, as well as phthalates or other plasticisers and, if stabilisers are used, lead or cadmium.
Both the European Commission and the rapporteur adopt the voluntary commitments with industry in order to curb the drawbacks.
I support him in this view, but believe that these proposals are inadequate to actually solve the problem.
Costa Neves report (A5-0102/2001): I voted against the Costa Neves report on the Commission's 2002 budget lines.
Madam President, I should be very pleased if the European Commission were given more money for its budget.
I would like to see a new Directorate created, for the sole purpose of looking into and implementing ways of improving the living conditions of elderly people and pensioners throughout Europe and the States which will soon be joining the European Union.
According to the reports, we would have to do our best to find the money through an internal readjustment of heading 1 (agriculture), which, in our view, is impossible in light of the commitments that have been given.
As we already stated during the recent debate in this House on the revision of the 2001 budget, we hope that a greater contribution to heading 2 (structural operations) might be considered.
The 2002 budget guidelines seem too sketchy on the cost of enlargement.
The implications for agriculture or for the Structural Funds have not yet been determined, but will become clear in time.
Political statements have been made in various quarters, claiming that the Treaty of Nice should be ratified by all Member States at the end of 2001.
We are dubious as to whether this timetable will be respected, but since this commitment seems to have been made, the 2002 budget guidelines should at least contain an estimate of how much the new provisions of this Treaty will cost.
The European Union' s budget, using subsidiarity as a pretext, is pushing this tendency even further by cutting social expenditure to a negligible level.
As a matter of fact, I would point out that, in this context, we refused to undermine our post-2001 spending objectives in Agenda 2000.
Buitenweg report (A5-0103/2001): Madam President, I also voted for the Buitenweg report on the European Parliament's estimates, also in relation to the 2002 budget, on the different areas of activity of Parliament and its bodies.
Many other small businesses are in the same situation.
This particular view - but many others of a similar nature can be found - shows how much consideration has been given from the outset to resolving some of the problems facing large companies, but not those facing small businesses.
That is why, in our view, the European Union - or the Member States by delegation - must provide immediate financial support, at least to small traders, as a matter of urgency.
The basis for the annual discharge procedure is the Court of Auditors' annual report.
For 1999, the Court gave the Commission a positive Statement of Assurance on the revenue side, for commitment appropriations and for administrative expenditure, but not for other payment transactions, as has also been the case in previous years.
The decisions concerned were made by the previous Commission between 1991 and 1994.
Parliament investigated this case very thoroughly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commissioner has pointed out, this budget covers a broad spectrum of activities.
We want the political management of all these problems to be undertaken in Europe, but we also want the allocated funds to be drawn down.
These three issues must be closely followed up by our committee and by Parliament.
The committee took a common approach in its opinion on the need to improve the quality of action and performance as a way of achieving better value for taxpayers' money.
For example, we wish to remind the Commission of the need to achieve higher standards in auditing the research programmes, particularly in the context of the European research area proposals.
We put forward the suggestion of creating a separate budget line for strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety in northern parts of Europe.
We want more spending on SYNERGY.
I turn now to the other report on the coal and steel part of the budget.
Fortunately we tend not to suffer from the allegations of fraud and mismanagement that one sees elsewhere but we do have a problem about the very worthy organisations that want support from Parliament actually receiving the money.
We accepted it for 1999, but I hope it will not recur in the year 2000.
I am sad to report that the figures for 1999 show that this was the first year ever when the least developed countries received under 50% of overseas development aid administered by the Commission.
Whatever happens this year, you cannot expect discharge for 2001 unless they are fulfilled.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities considers that the implementation results of the budget-lines covering the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women were in general satisfactory.
We therefore call upon you to continue to give high priority to this policy area and invite you to carry out a gender impact assessment of expenditure, especially as regards the Structural Funds, the research programme, and all investments in the information society.
I understand the Court of Auditors is looking at this budget line for this year and on that basis we would be happy, despite our reservations, to grant discharge or to recommend the granting of discharge.
Whilst we expressed some concerns about this, we are prepared to support the idea of discharge on the basis that the new head of the DG for Health will investigate these issues and bring forward a report to the House.
Mr President, I welcome the various reports, the Blak, Stauner, Folias, Seppänen, van der Laan and Rühle reports, because I know so much work went into them.
Not only was it the first year that I was elected - and hold back your cheers now - but in budgetary control terms it was fascinating.
I believe the Commissioner will be able to confirm that the building was bought for USD 0.5 million, refurbished to the tune of USD 2.2 million - that is four times what it was bought for - whilst renting somewhere else for about USD 18 000 per month which was cheaper than where the Commission's residence was beforehand because I believe it was in the Four Seasons Hotel.
The error rate quite simply did not improve.
What you will be doing, however, is sending a message to this Commission and the public who elected us here - you remember them, some of them actually bother to visit us occasionally - that we are steadfastly against waste, fraud and mismanagement; that we are drawing a line in the sand, that what went before 1999 was completely unacceptable and what happens now and in the future must be better.
Secondly, the Commission has carried out some sterling work.
It is also the first reform which is being enshrined in legislation.
I notice that the Secretary-General is present today, and I would call on him too to implement this reform in Parliament itself at the earliest opportunity.
The DAS, the Statement of Assurance, must be improved.
We need to focus more on the different sectors so as to be able to draw a distinction between the different areas of policy.
Mrs Van der Laan is right to make the first move in this connection in her report on other institutions, which I, by the way, congratulate on their policy.
In areas such as justice, home affairs and foreign affairs, the Council has more or less exclusive rights.
Mr President, every year, the discharge is the highlight of the year in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The hallmark of this budget is the fact that the Statement of Assurance is still not positive.
The figures which we are familiar with show that agriculture is in a considerably better position than the other sections of the budget.
Compared to the other sectors, agriculture can afford to present the margin of error of 3%, although this is probably still far too high.
Ladies and gentlemen, we should still be mindful of the fact that the Member States are responsible for more than 80% of all expenditure.
I myself am starting a campaign today to convince my national counterparts to ratify this agreement in Belgium before July of this year.
As permanent rapporteur for the former Yugoslavia, I can bear witness to the excellent work of our delegation in Sarajevo.
When Mr Santer' s Commission had to resign in connection with the debate on discharge in 1997, despite the support of the Social Democrat group, the GUE/NGL Group was consistently in favour of resignation.
The situation in 1999 was different.
Responsibility was unevenly divided between Mr Santer' s Commission that had resigned and the new Commission.
The majority of our group on this occasion is in favour of granting the Commission discharge.
I cannot help noticing that the 'Fléchard' company, which is now for the second time reported to have taken part in serious financial and health-related fraud, is missing from this list.
Mr President, Mr Blak has indicated that the granting of discharge is a political decision of the first order.
The Members of this Parliament do, however, reach different conclusions based on facts.
And this is all tied in with the interpretation of the facts and the trust in the Commission.
When it took up office in 1999, this Commission was facing a huge challenge, namely to carry out the necessary reforms in its official apparatus, clean up its image and handle old fraud cases.
With regard to the discharge for 1998 and 1999, I wonder to what extent we can hold the new Commission responsible for the mismanagement of the old one.
The cited instances of fraud all took place before the eyes of the Member States, and they should be penalised for this aspect, in particular.
The aim of the discharge, at the end of the day, is not to repeat the act of authorising the budget.
I shall make three comments on what has happened here this year.
That is why I believe it is difficult for us to demand in a suitably effective manner the improvement of a positive Statement of Assurance.
Before imposing sanctions on the Commission, I would like the various pockets of Eurosceptics to allow more extensive monitoring in their own countries on the way in which spending is carried out in Member States.
Lastly, we are being very badly affected by an imbalance, on the issue of fraud, between a repressive and largely administrative unit and a judicial unit with powers of jurisdiction that is still in its infancy.
That is what constitutes the real scandal in the Fléchard affair.
The misunderstandings of the Fléchard case can be explained by the fact that we, the European Union and the Commission, were in a position to levy punishment in administrative terms, without showing consideration for the individual' s right to protection.
This is most apparent in the case of the alleged disappearance of files in the Fléchard affair.
My second key phrase is the Statement of Assurance.
The third key phrase is access to information.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has submitted five other reports on discharge.
Ms Stauner's follow-up report on the 1998 discharge should be singled out in particular.
Here we have our Secretary-General of Parliament, and here we have the Commissioner, who represents the Commission, but where is the Council?
I agree with the report, which is serious, demanding and tough, and I also agree with the final section in which it discharges the budget, because, as has been said here from many different quarters, the Commission is making great efforts to improve things.
However, I must say that, in my humble opinion, it is doing so very slowly and this creates insecurities and examples of improvisation and also creates a lack of motivation amongst staff.
Having heard you say that the Commission' s behaviour would not now be the same as on previous occasions and that we have to seek, for the sake of cooperation in relation to good financial management, an improvement of the regulatory and commitological legal basis, I agree with Mr Van Hulten, because I believe that we are seeing an inflexion in the behaviour and attitude of the Commission.
I interpret your words as self-criticism on the part of the Commission.
Over the years we achieved real control and achieved the possibility to affect the management of the resources of the European Union.
The more we shout about fraud and corruption, the less seriously we will be taken unless it is absolutely necessary and unless we know exactly what we are talking about.
We will achieve a cohesive Union but we must be responsible in our attitude to the whole question of what is intentionally fraudulent and what are simply mistakes and errors that cannot, in the short term, be avoided.
The problem with the guarantee payments in Denmark, which has not yet been settled, is an absolute disgrace.
For the first time, the new Commission has admitted that the decision to reduce the penalty was perfectly open to criticism and that a more thorough investigation should have been carried out.
But I should mention at the same time that this is a Council regulation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
The situation in the other affected Member States is fortunately not as serious.
There have been two cases in France, twelve in the Netherlands and one case in Ireland; however, we need to maintain a very high level of vigilance.
This is especially the case in the Member States which have recorded cases, and in the UK in particular.
For example, the Commission has acted to impose restrictions on exports and animal movements from affected Member States and regions within 24 hours of confirmed outbreaks.
There have been no fewer than 18 decisions adopted by the Commission since the outbreak of this crisis.
I met the new US Secretary for Agriculture, Ann Veneman, last week in Washington, and she has undertaken to regularly review the situation.
Our efforts are continuing to secure recognition for this regionalised approach by major export markets like Japan.
I remain satisfied that the protective measures in place are sufficient to safeguard against the export of the virus to third countries.
Another essential measure was the obligation to slaughter all sheep imported from the UK between 1 February and 21 February.
This has been proven by the epidemiology of the French outbreak two weeks later, as of 13 March, as the most crucial decision to avoid further spread on the continent of Europe.
Vehicles are cleaned and disinfected, adequate notice of movements of animals is given; movements of susceptible animals into the holding of dispatch within the previous 30 days have not taken place.
These points are designed to provide facilities for the resting, watering and feeding of live animals in transport; however, they are also an opportunity for animals to be cross-contaminated by other animals.
I will now turn to Community measures in relation to individual Member States.
However, Northern Ireland will be excluded from this measure with effect from today with two important exceptions.
There will be no exports of live susceptible animals, and there will be no change in the current restrictions in the area of Newry and Mourne where Northern Ireland's only case of foot-and-mouth disease was detected almost five weeks ago.
In relation to France, the Netherlands and Ireland, there is a ban on the export of live susceptible animals.
There is also a ban on the export of untreated meat and meat products, milk and milk products from the affected regions in Ireland (one county), in the Netherlands (four provinces), and in France (three départements).
These restrictions are adapted as circumstances change.
Hence in France for example, the ban on exports of live susceptible animals will remain in force until 12 April.
The existing restrictions in relation to Ireland remain in place until 19 April.
In the Netherlands, where there have been a total of 12 cases since the first case was detected on 21 March, the situation will be reviewed in the SVC today and tomorrow.
In both of these Member States, the restrictions on products are confined to the regions where the cases have been detected.
That summarises the situation insofar as restrictions on exports and movements of animals are concerned.
I would now like to turn to two other important measures adopted in recent days.
These concern the Commission decision to approve vaccination in clearly defined circumstances in the Netherlands and in the United Kingdom.
The decision in relation to the Netherlands provides for suppressive vaccination.
The Netherlands is in this unfortunate position and the Commission and the Member States in the SVC are sympathetic to the situation.
The decision in relation to the United Kingdom is more complex.
The Netherlands for its part is considering a request for a revised scheme similar to that approved in the UK.
I fully appreciate that vaccination is a very emotive subject.
But the reality is far different.
This reality is that there are important limitations to vaccination and there is still no widespread support for such a policy.
Generalised vaccination has not been asked for by the Member States, including the Netherlands and the UK.
Vaccination is only effective against the targeted strain and for a limited period only.
There are over 300 million susceptible livestock - cattle, sheep and pigs - in the EU which would need to be vaccinated to give full coverage and it would jeopardise our trade between the Member States and with certain countries which insist on imports only from FMD-free countries which do not vaccinate.
These will include issues such as the following which fall within my own area of responsibility: weaknesses in traceability of animals, especially of sheep and pigs; animal transport and especially measures which allow live animals from different Member States to cross-contaminate one another; vaccination and whether there needs to be a departure from the current policy of 'no' to generalised vaccination and, if so, in what circumstances and in what conditions; sanitary controls on imports, bearing in mind that the existing EU provisions are adequate if respected, not only to keep out the virus but also to ensure public health requirements are fully and properly respected.
Costs: the present outbreak already has a full potential cost to the Community budget of up to EUR 170 million on disease eradication measures alone.
However, these issues can only be addressed when the current crisis has been brought under control.
This might be a first step, but in my own opinion, and that of my group, it is probably not sufficient.
In the Netherlands, twelve cases in a limited area have now led to the slaughter of almost 100 000 animals.
In my own country, we are now talking in terms of more than EUR 100 million.
There was complete agreement that slaughter and containment was the most effective policy when this disease broke out.
But for the rapid action of the United Kingdom Government to ban exports and impose movement restrictions and alert other Member States, the impact on the Continent and in Britain would have been far greater.
But we need to know more about the incubation period, the epidemiology of the virus and how farming practices have been contributing factors.
Mr President, in some EU Member States, and particularly in my own country, the Netherlands, this is the most serious agricultural crisis we have known in years.
The liberal group is backing the policy of emergency vaccinations to restrict the outbreak and spread of the virus.
We must follow the lead of the United States and Australia, where such controls have been in place for years.
The Commissioner talked about the transport policy in Europe.
In my view, this is a major political risk, as the costs and benefits are very difficult to quantify.
It is estimated that around 200 million livestock are moved around the EU every year.
Even in normal years - without BSE and foot-and-mouth crises - the error rates are high.
Moreover, we have heard, in the Committee on Agriculture and elsewhere, that, also in the United Kingdom - as some farmers have said - interventions are not always timely enough considering the fact that as long as three weeks have been known to pass between the occurrence of a case of foot-and-mouth disease on a farm and slaughter of the animal.
There is therefore a clear need to create the right conditions for tighter controls and thus to prevent foot-and-mouth disease from spreading to other countries as well.
Mr President, it is high time that the political world sent a clear message of support to the agricultural community, which has been severely affected by one crisis after another.
They often have the finger pointed at them, but farmers are, in fact, victims of the system.
The Commission failed in its negotiations with the United States.
Only a few regions are affected by foot-and-mouth disease, but the whole of Europe is being punished - this is an unacceptable situation that must be redressed.
We must show unwavering solidarity in the light of this human tragedy.
Foot-and-mouth disease has arrived just in time for eastward enlargement and for the WTO negotiations.
First of all, it is in time for eastward enlargement, since we must, of course, cut our agricultural expenditure because the annual budgetary pie for agriculture will have to be cut into 21 slices instead of 15 and everyone' s piece will, therefore, be smaller unless the number of farmers is reduced.
Farmers aged 55 and over, whose herds have been slaughtered, are forced into retirement.
It is by chance that, for ten years, we have done nothing to combat BSE.
We must also deal with bilateral trade exchanges, as each country can freely negotiate the conditions governing exports with Russia, Japan or other countries.
We must also take a regionalist approach.
There is no reason why a case of foot-and-mouth in Brittany should affect Alsace, nor why a country that has 1 000 cases of infection such as Great Britain and a country that has two cases such as France should be treated in the same way.
To enable this to be done, it is imperative that we encourage research and development into marker vaccines which enable a vaccinated animal to be distinguished from an infected animal.
Member States and the European Union must deal with this situation as a matter of urgency and in a way that matches people' s needs.
I would also like to stress the importance of a policy of prevention.
Farmers whose stock is not affected directly by FMD, but who are unable to move their stock to markets, are also facing massive losses, further exacerbated by the ban on the sale of cattle over 30 months following the BSE crisis.
I would appreciate clarification by the Commission on this point.
Mr President, recent developments in connection with foot-and-mouth disease in a series of countries in the European Union prove that the systems for guaranteeing that animal diseases are efficiently controlled are in a parlous state.
With such a dreaded virus one is somewhat reluctant to talk about success, other than to say thankfully Ireland's quick response, sometimes regarded as extreme, has so far been successful in containing the disease to one outbreak.
This is a disaster of unknown proportions which is affecting 200 farming families, as well as many others, in this village.
They are God' s creatures in relation to which we need to act as responsible stewards.
The non-vaccination policy was based on a restricted outbreak every 5 to 10 years.
The non-vaccination policy is therefore based on false scenarios and must be reviewed.
In Cumbria, where the outbreak was spreading out of control, we told the farmers that they would have to slaughter even healthy animals in a preventative cull.
They reluctantly agreed to comply with that request and the slaughter of healthy animals has begun.
It dithered whether to use incineration instead of burial.
Let me say this afternoon that vaccination is not the right way forward.
We would close off the export trade for all these products from animals in the areas where vaccination had been used.
We know that in Saudi Arabia they have used the vaccination policy for the last two years.
In the case of pigs it can take 7 days.
During that time they can spread the virus.
I would pose one question to Mr Byrne before I finish.
Mr Byrne could have taken the initiative to vaccinate rare animals roaming freely.
Ministers Künast and Brinkhorst took the initiative instead.
Mr Byrne should have taken the initiative in respect of generous buffer vaccination.
What we are witnessing during these initial months of 2001 is a quite extraordinary phenomenon, but one which requires careful analysis.
The second point relates to the agricultural sector.
They want the animals in their zoo, Artis, to be vaccinated.
A decision on vaccination is not easy.
The Commissioner told us the disease has cost EUR 170 million in eradication measures.
If science allows us to distinguish between animals which have been vaccinated and those carrying the disease, then vaccination should be allowed whenever requested.
Mr President, today at 12 noon in London there was a strong protest outside the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food against the senseless culling of millions of healthy animals.
According to the National Farmers' Union, the UK earns just GBP 633 million per year from meat and dairy exports.
That is what this crisis of foot-and-mouth disease signifies.
Are you prepared, Commissioner to give some thought, in conjunction with the World Health Organisation, to all these illnesses that we are going to suffer in the future as a result of this increasingly accessible Europe, in the light of the decisions taken regarding LDCs for 2006 and 2009, which will allow the free movement of all products, apart from weapons, throughout Europe.
This really is a genuine appeal that I am making to the Commission, to Parliament and to the national governments.
I shall sum up, Commissioner, by also saying that the European spirit which brings us here, to Parliament, forces us to ask the Council and Parliament to take exceptional measures for farmers and all sectors of the economy and the affected regions in Europe, otherwise, I believe that European integration is meaningless.
You must explain to us what the technical or scientific basis is for having animals slaughtered when they have already been vaccinated.
All these aspects should therefore be considered.
Mr President, we must see the current crisis resulting from foot-and-mouth disease as an opportunity to consider the European Union' s vetinary policy.
Secondly, the problems faced by some countries today in mobilising resources to deal with sick animals are clear for all to see.
What is happening, though, is that the assessment carried out ten years ago which led to opting for non-vaccination must now be reconsidered in the light of the many aspects of European farming that have changed since then, starting with its integration into the global economy, which has increased the risks of contamination exponentially.
Selective preventive vaccination or vaccination within a cordon sanitaire, on a regional basis, should be seen as alternatives that the Member States can authorise, according to the number of cases they discover.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, some of us appreciate your dilemma and your unwillingness to rush to judgement.
And this is the case even in my own Member State, which fortunately still has no cases of foot-and-mouth disease or BSE.
I also hope that the Commission, but above all the Member States, fulfil their responsibilities.
I hope that this month, given the weight of opinion expressed here today, this will now be listened to.
The Irish Hotels Federation is already reporting actual losses of EUR 55 million in the last month, with obvious knock-on consequences for employment.
To conclude, I want to support the call by my colleagues for a European taskforce, not only to monitor the existing situation, but whose remit would also be to monitor and approve a European-wide eradication programme.
To maintain a disease-free status a country has to be free of FMD for at least 12 months, an effective system of surveillance must be in place and all regulatory measures for the prevention and control of FMD must have been implemented.
A policy of strategic ring-vaccination around outbreaks may be appropriate in certain circumstances even though we still cannot distinguish commercially between infected and vaccinated animals.
I appreciate that the Dutch, for example, have a particular problem about disposing of carcasses so vaccination is for them perhaps an option to ring-fence the disease.
We know that FMD has been around for 400 years so modern farm practices cannot be blamed for this virulent disease, but the mobility of animals today gives rise to greater risk and faster contamination.
The general principle should be to ensure that animals are slaughtered as close as possible to the point of production.
There are huge economic implications for Ireland from this disease and while farmers are suffering badly, because of restriction of movements and slaughtering, so are other businesses and industries, particularly our tourism and transport sectors.
Already we have lost IRL 200 million in tourism receipts since the outbreak of FMD in the UK some weeks ago.
There are other measures that can help compensate sectors generally in terms of our budget.
Mr President, Commissioner, in 1991, I joined with other colleagues in this House to vote against the abolition of vaccination at that time.
The EU's "no vaccination" policy has always been justified in terms of exports to third countries.
The European Parliament will undoubtedly set out its views on this issue in its resolution tomorrow.
Let me be very clear about this and repeat what I said earlier.
The Commission does see a role for vaccination.
I said this on a number of occasions when I was here before in Parliament and on other occasions and in other places.
This explains why it has already been approved as a preventive measure in the UK and in the Netherlands.
Let me give you a specific example of these limitations which I take directly from the current situation.
The original outbreak in the UK was in pigs.
It is this presence in sheep which has been the major vector in the spread of this virus.
But vaccination in the EU, before the non-vaccination policy introduced in 1991, was confined to cattle.
In other words, even if vaccination had been in place as it was before 1991 the major damage would still have occurred.
Some of these sheep would still have been exported to France and to Ireland where they would have cross-contaminated calves in transit to the Netherlands.
In other words, the outbreak in all four Member States, would almost certainly have occurred given the way it started.
Yes, vaccination does have a role, but it is of the nature that I have already outlined, namely limited to use in well-defined circumstances to bring an outbreak under control.
This might change if new and more effective vaccines are found, especially if a marker vaccine, which allows us to distinguish vaccinated from infected animals, is developed.
We have a situation in Argentina at the moment where they have had a vaccination policy in place in some areas and not in others, but it has spread to the other areas.
I said that the introduction of a vaccination now as a firebreak would have some limited effects in circumstances where it was not possible to kill or dispose of an animal within a short space of time.
I said the vaccination would not be effective in a period shorter than 6 to 10 days.
The point I am making here - and I said it earlier - is that animals are infective during that period.
But it can occur in certain circumstances if you do it in the way that is being done in the Netherlands and is being considered in the UK.
I was asked to consider the reduction of milk quotas and that, of course, is an issue for my colleague, Franz Fischler, and I will mention to him that the issue was raised this afternoon in the Chamber.
The information came to us on 20 February and we acted within a matter of 12 hours.
There was in fact a Commission meeting the following day.
If you say that, you are saying that there should be a generalised policy of vaccination throughout the European Union.
They have come to me and said "no vaccination policy".
But there is not a unanimous view among the farming community in relation to this issue.
Mr Hyland put three questions to me particularly in relation to third countries and the FVO.
It is interesting to note that the Minister for Agriculture in France also said that the outbreak there was a result of illegal activity and indeed the Minister for Agriculture in Ireland has said exactly the same thing that the outbreak there was the result of illegal activity.
All of these outbreaks can be traced back to illegal activities, certainly in three countries and maybe in four.
There are a number of different countries in the world where foot-and-mouth disease is endemic and where vaccination is undertaken.
But there continue to be outbreaks of other strains of foot-and-mouth disease in that country so that again a generalised policy of vaccination is not the answer.
Mr Watson then asked me to confirm when the Commission was informed of the outbreak by the UK and I can confirm that the Commission was informed on 20 February.
It is not a simple issue of administering a vaccination to an animal as you would vaccinate a child, for example, against polio.
Mr De Rossa also asked me about vaccination and I just ask the question: where do we vaccinate?
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Thank you very much, Mr Böge.
The first two years of the euro have led to the consolidation of good economic results and substantial advances.
I am not going to repeat the figures for growth or inflation or the extent to which monetary policy has contributed to growth or to the convergence of our economies, nor the role played by the euro as a protective factor in the face of external crises.
And I say it is possible because we do not rule out the idea that, if new factors arise which suggest the need for a new communication, then this would be done next October.
It is not a black or white situation; it is a grey situation and, in some cases, it is too dark a grey, but only in some very specific cases, it is true.
With regard to companies, it is true that, generally, the preparation of large companies has made very satisfactory progress, but small and medium-sized businesses are still somewhat behind.
Approximately half of them have improved the situation, but still half of them have no action plan to transfer to the euro on 1 January.
What is more significant is that one in three of them is still not aware that 1 January 2002 is the time limit for carrying our all their operations in euros.
For example, one in every four people (25 per cent) believes that euro notes and coins issued in one country will only be legal currency in that country, which indicates that a factor as fundamental as the existence of the single currency is still not fully understood.
The numerous information campaigns have had limited effects, but it is true that it is difficult to persuade consumers to take an interest in an event which they see as far off.
We are convinced that this situation will improve at the beginning of the second six-month period, with large companies that issue invoices changing their bank accounts and other means of collecting payment early.
This will contribute to consumers being progressively more involved in the new situation we are creating.
Public administrations are generally prepared and offer the public the opportunity to use the euro in a very broad range of operations, although it is true that they could play a more significant role, acting as a catalyst for the whole of the economy, for example, by paying, public contracts or officials' salaries in euros, something which has taken place in some Member States, but not in all of them.
The banks are cooperating well; they are carrying out changes in advance in their relations with their clients; the adaptation of automatic cash dispensers in 2002 will probably be very rapid, and even immediate in the majority of Member States; in general, they will issue notes of low value and will thereby contribute to alleviating the problems of returning change which may arise in commercial operations.
The banks have in fact become one of the driving forces in the transfer to the euro and their policy of early exchange is a very important contribution to increasing awareness of the euro amongst economic operators.
In today' s communication, the Commission offers 20 new practices, 10 to be applied before the introduction of notes and coins on 1 January, and another 10 which could be implemented at a later date.
Those measures are not applicable in all the Member States of the Economic and Monetary Union, but they are a set of ideas which each Member State may have recourse to and use if the State considers it appropriate.
After the introduction of the notes and coins on 1 January 2002, other issues of interest may be raised.
For example, we recommend that sales do not take place, as is usually the case in some Member States, on 2 January, as that would give rise to an unmanageable situation from the point of view of the operation of those businesses.
Finally, there is a series of ideas which we believe to be useful, which have been applied already in some Member States and which are no doubt going to be have a positive effect in terms of ensuring that this introduction of notes and coins for 300 million Europeans takes place more easily.
When you see the communication you will see the level of decision which each of the Member States has reached and the amount of information available at a national level.
Another problem which you have raised is a rather complex issue, which you know well, and which appears on page 46 of our communication.
You will be able to see there the progress we are making on the different problems raised and that, since November 2000, the banking association has launched the STEP I project, which is the first project to offer us a system of compensation at a cross-border level, which should be a key element in helping us to reduce the cost of these operations which, for you and for us, are an issue of special concern.
It is going to be very difficult for the citizen to understand that, from 1 January, and working with euros in different countries, that a cheque in Portuguese euros paid in Portugal is not going to cost the same as a cheque in Portuguese euros paid in Belgium or vice versa.
You will see in the difficulties posed by this issue in the communication, and we are prepared to do everything necessary to launch this project because we agree that it is a fundamental problem.
And I would say the same to the respective ministers in relation to their national programmes.
The national programmes are all being discussed in the Commission.
There are references to each of the national programmes, including the communication issues, even the web pages relating to each Member State and the present communication informs us of exactly the action which each of the Member States has planned.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have two brief questions.
Thirdly, do you intend to continue the Euro information campaign with the Member States at least during the first half of next year, and if so, in what form?
Of course, we could lend them a helping hand, and I have two suggestions in that respect.
Secondly, could I suggest that you take the initiative of collecting all coins locally and maybe using them for a good cause?
Mr President, I would like to say the following to Mrs Randzio-Plath: Firstly, with regard to the activities for 9 May, as you know, in cooperation with the chairman of the eurogroup, it has been agreed to communicate the 9 May initiative relating to schools to the Ecofin Council, in Malmö, and the Commission will print 400 000 little passports which our delegations will make available to the schools so that the children can begin to familiarise themselves with this situation.
This means that some of the funds for 2002 can be used to finance some of the existing commitments.
Whether or not there are fiscal advantages is to be decided by the Member States.
I take note of your proposal that an initiative of this type be created at a local level, which, as you say, may help to bring about a good result.
In the event that we have additional resources, we will organise a conference in Budapest in order to provide information on the introduction of the euro in the candidate countries.
However, in relation to the specific problem which you have raised, the European Central Bank has accepted the possibility of front loading even for branches of European banks in countries outside the eurozone, bearing in mind that a very substantial proportion of German currency notes are located outside German territory.
Work is being done on this issue and the European Central Bank has seen this as the best way to solve this problem.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0163/2001).
The Commission, through ECHO, has been assisting the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights since September 2000, with a grant of EUR 30 000.
This is intended to increase general awareness not only within government but throughout society as a whole, of the question of human rights in Sierra Leone and, in particular, the problem of violence against women and children.
The emphasis of ECHO intervention in the northern Caucasus region, where the large majority of Chechen IDPs are located, is because this is where the biggest problem is.
Operating conditions in the northern Caucasus remain difficult, especially in terms of security.
The priorities on which we are working are the right ones.
In any case, the priorities which I indicated in my first response are the best available answer we can give now.
We are directing our assistance to areas with the largest concentration of people in need.
Furthermore, the Commission will present a proposal for a directive before the summer of 2001 to introduce a rate of utilisation for biofuels in transport.
For approximately 20 years, the Commission has supported a great number of projects on alternative fuels and vehicles through its technological research and development programmes.
Almost all alternative fuels have been covered in these projects.
With regard to patents, many have been created as part of these projects, but they are the intellectual property of the industries and universities that took part in these projects which we cofinanced.
With regard to the specific question on transport, I shall pass this on to Mrs de Palacio, to see if this sort of 'one stop shop' does indeed exist, but I can inform you that, as for all these research proposals, obviously we receive letters on a regular basis from inventors and people who believe they may have found a solution and these are of course sent to the administration department.
We therefore believe that these projects must be looked into by the different innovation and research bodies that exist in the regions and also on a national level.
I shall pass on your proposal to Mrs de Palacio to see exactly to what extent a direct answer can be made to the proposals submitted.
Question No 32 by (H-0281/01): Subject: International trade and the fight against AIDS In the absence of concerted international action and coordination to facilitate access to treatment for the countries of the southern hemisphere, use of the safeguard clauses included in the international commercial agreements (TRIPS) is an essential way of reducing significantly the number of deaths from AIDS.
I shall not comment on these cases which are sub judice, but I believe that it is worthwhile to explain the Commission' s policy on this issue which includes the problem of action to take against communicable diseases affecting developing countries.
In September, we organised an international round table in Brussels, out of which came a number of recommendations, ranging from a diagnosis according to which the issue of access to key drugs involves both local systems for care provision, policies for prevention and, of course, questions of the pricing and thus the funding of medicines.
We would like to reiterate that the WTO agreement on intellectual property stipulates this flexibility.
As far as we are concerned, we are also willing, at European Union level, to move ahead with this issue if it allows us to make progress on the issue of tiered pricing.
This, perhaps, goes further than some other WTO members would wish, but that is the situation, and we committed ourselves during the preparatory phase for the Doha meeting and in the ONPI and the WTO to push the consensus towards our own flexible interpretation of the WTO provisions.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 33 and 34 will be taken together.
Question No 33 by (H-0279/01): Subject: European Research Area and the aeronautics sector Aeronautics, the European Union's leading export industry (EUR 22 billion) is also a key sector in employment (400 000 direct and 1.5 million indirect jobs) and turnover (EUR 65 billion in 1999).
Question No 34 by (H-0287/01): Subject: European aeronautics The European Commission recently published a report entitled 'European Aeronautics: A vision for 2020', which details a research and development strategy in civil aerospace.
The report recommends setting up an Advisory Council for Aeronautical Research in Europe or ACAR.
The ACAR members are due to be named by the end of May and the first meeting is scheduled for June.
A first draft strategic agenda is expected at the beginning of next year.
These four priorities already correspond to the main objectives of the Vision for 2020.
The Commission' s action aims, over the long term, to stimulate the coordination of research undertaken at different levels by using the unifying effect of the instruments provided for in the framework programme and is perfectly in line with the agreements of the World Trade Organisation, the research actions sought being very competitive in nature.
The Commissioner did not actually respond to my question as to what exactly the response has been from Member State governments.
The proposal for this programme is based on Vision 2020, which has three main objectives - to reduce noise, to ensure greater safety and to reduce pollution.
This research is therefore of general interest, and as I already mentioned in my first speech, it is pre-competitive research, which should therefore not be compared to specific development programmes on types of aircraft.
That is why I do not believe that there will be any difficulties in this area, since we are working within the rules agreed with the World Trade Organisation, and that the objectives are important and, moreover, concern the quality of life of all European citizens, and to the safety of Europe' s skies.
Thank you very much, Mr Busquin.
Article 3 of this protocol, which incorporates the Schengen acquis into the European Union, lays down that, with regard to decisions on implementing the Schengen acquis, Denmark can decide to guarantee the transposal of these decisions into its national law, thereby binding itself under an obligation under international law to the other Member States.
Nevertheless, the Danish Government recently asked the Commission about the possibility of applying certain rules adopted in the field of cooperation in judicial and civil matters to Denmark by means of parallel agreements with a basis in international law.
It will be recalled that, as the Commissioner also explained, we have this exemption in Article 5 and Article 7 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark.
Article 5 is a very simple rule specifying that, if the other Member States subject to Title IV of the Treaty should decide to develop the Schengen acquis, then the Danish government and the Danish parliament may, in accordance with the constitution, decide, within a period of six months, whether Denmark should or should not take part.
The question is what a development of the Schengen acquis means.
The question is how far we are prepared to go in applying Article 5 in developing the Schengen acquis.
According to the Council's answer to my question H-0145/01, application of the Schengen agreement is neither contrary nor an obstacle to the Nordic passport union.
However, Article 45 of the Schengen agreement states that anyone staying in a hotel in another Schengen country must be able to produce identification and prove citizenship.
Secondly, it should be pointed out that Article 45 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement stipulates that persons wishing to stay overnight in a hotel must prove their identity by presenting a valid identity document.
What I said was that as far as I know, up until now, the Swedish authorities have not notified any specific identity document to be recognised by all Member States as a travel document according to Directive 68/360.
I hope is now clear that there is no change about the possibility of using the current Swedish identity card to register in a hotel.
Your freedom has been enlarged in that now you have a free area of movement throughout the Schengen area which is why, for instance, Norway and Iceland - which formed part of the Nordic free area of movement - have signed a parallel agreement with the Union to guarantee that they will also benefit from that area of free movement that is the Schengen area.
Question No 37 by (H-0311/01): Subject: Authorisation to carry medicines when travelling between countries in the Schengen area The Danish Government recently submitted a draft law requiring authorisation to carry medicines for private use when travelling within the Schengen area.
These individuals must be in possession of a certificate issued by a competent national authority.
Pursuant to the above-mentioned article, the Schengen Executive Committee adopted, in its decision of 22 December 1994, the form and content of this certificate and the principles governing its issue.
The Commission takes the view that a draft law in Denmark covering the subject you have raised, now matches the above-mentioned provisions.
However, 1 April was last Sunday, and now we have to look ahead, so I would therefore like to hear how other countries have tackled the issue of Article 75.
Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, I must inform you that the interpretation of Article 75 of the Schengen Agreement was drawn up by a decision of the Schengen Executive Committee adopted on 22 December 1994.
This means that, with the rules being identical in every country, the common form must be respected to certify the need for medical treatment allowing a citizen to carry the substances mentioned in your question.
I have the greatest respect for your opinion, but my point of view is as follows: a Danish law, as stated in your question does not contravene the Schengen acquis.
Incidentally, I do not understand how Protocol 5 can be invoked - there is no contradiction between the decision of the Schengen Executive Committee and the free and sovereign decision of the Kingdom of Denmark.
Question No 38 by (H-0320/01): Subject: Protection of the EU's borders Is the Commission prepared to carry out a feasibility study of the creation of EU protective units at the external borders, and what is the current status of the administrative work on setting up the European Police Academy?
Several Member States also seem to want to explore this option further in order to strengthen resources for combating illegal immigration.
The countries who are candidates to join the European Union will be required, in the long term - I stress the long term - to play a full role in implementing the Schengen acquis and the acquis communautaire, in the area, amongst others, of controlling the European Union' s external borders and of the unchecked free movement of individuals within internal borders.
The controls also seek to ensure monitoring of external borders in terms of combating crime, or applying customs regulations and to ensure that various technical regulations that apply to vehicles or to dangerous or illicit merchandise are being respected.
As you know, any decision regarding this sort of programme supported by the Odysseus programme depends on the Management Committee.
The headquarters of the European Police College' s secretariat will be established on the basis of a forthcoming decision by the Council.
As you know, it was due to my report three years ago that this House has proposed the creation of these units.
I hope that we will be able to approve the Italian proposal as soon as possible.
As you know, the proposals had to be tabled by 31 March.
As the honourable Member knows, the governments in Skopje and Belgrade recently reached agreement on border demarcation between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The European Union has been intensively involved in trying to manage and prevent this crisis.
We are very pleased at the attempt made by President Trajkovski to launch a process of dialogue in Skopje.
The first meeting of the political leaders that he brought together took place yesterday.
I think we have been doing all we can, but the political leaders in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia now have to show the leadership which is going to be required in order to get their country through this difficult period.
It is a model which, unfortunately, we have seen and several countries backed it in the former Yugoslavia.
It is the point I will be making in Albania on Thursday when we have the high level steering group which will be discussing the stabilisation and association process for Albania.
I pay tribute now to the unequivocal statements made by the political leaders of the Albanian state in the last few days.
There have been excellent signs in southeast Europe over the last 18 months of people coming back towards the democratic family.
It is essential that they do because there is no doubt at all that there have been people moving backwards and forwards across the border and the political consequences in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia of movement of extremists from Kosovo into Macedonia make what has been a difficult crisis for them to face even more political and therefore even more awkward.
As the author is not present, Question No 40 lapses.
The European Union has raised this issue on a number of occasions in the context of the overall human rights situation in Saudi Arabia.
We have done this through démarches, we have done this in political dialogue and we have done this in statements on human rights policy.
For some years an exchange of views on human rights has taken place between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including Saudi Arabia.
The issue has also been raised by the Commission in the negotiations on a free trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council countries in which an article on human rights and democratic principles will be included.
Moreover, the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia has been raised by the European Union in the UN Commission on Human Rights.
Commissioner, could you expand a little on your answer and tell me whether the Commission has made any specific proposal in this respect?
Nor do we have any competence to take any particular steps or to make a stand on an individual level in these particular cases.
Question No 42 by (H-0277/01): Subject: Deployment of Russian nuclear weapons at Kaliningrad According to several reports in reputable Nordic media, such as Swedish Radio's news programme Ekot and the Oslo newspaper Aftenposten, the Russian military is planning, or has already carried out, a major deployment of nuclear weapons in the Kaliningrad region.
Such action by the Russians would seriously affect military détente in the entire Baltic region since it would mean a considerable change in the military threat both to several EU Member States and to a number of applicant countries.
It seems to me that the last thing anyone should do is to try to reduce Tetovo to the state of Grozny.
The Commission does not, of course, have the means to monitor Russia's compliance with the assurances that we have had, but we would expect Member States to raise any information indicating the contrary in the appropriate European Union fora.
That discussion will involve not only the Member States of the European Union, but also countries affected by our northern dimension policies and aspirations including, of course, the Russian Federation.
One central part of our northern dimension policies is our attempt to suggest ways in which we can both help Kaliningrad to deal with the consequences of enlargement - that is, of being surrounded by Poland and Lithuania as Members of the European Union; and we have suggested as well, which is slightly different, ways in which Kaliningrad can be helped to deal with problems which have nothing to do with enlargement, but which have an impact on the whole area.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 43 to 74 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, our guests from the organisations who are taking their seats in the public gallery, forgive me if I am speaking somewhat slowly, but today is the first time that our debate will be interpreted using sign language, and I would like to inform the Commission that I have also had this report translated into Braille, and this is the first time that a parliamentary assembly has done this.
It is a joy because I am aware that this report has perhaps more influence than others, or at least in a more direct manner, in bringing about the Europe that I have been hoping and praying for, a humane Europe in which we are all involved and which we all hope to achieve, since we are well aware that, having achieved the single market and monetary union, the 21st century will have to try to bring about a humane European Union.
Drafting this report has only served to strengthen my belief that we can only make the future of Europe attractive if we start working on a basis of solidarity, justice and respect for others.
Lastly, the report fills me with hope because, if it is adopted by the European Parliament, it will enable many doors to be opened to the 37 million citizens who live with a disability.
The first is, of course, to start working on the year 2003, which is to be named the European Year of the Disabled Citizens, as announced at Nice.
The issue of access also includes transport and public buildings.
At a time when we often speak about 'lobbying' , I hope that, in view of the year 2003, along with all the organisations, we can use our influence on all the Commission and Council bodies to translate these recommendations - or at least some of them - into directives, so that a European disability policy can be developed in Europe.
We must work towards a situation where companies employ more than the obligatory number of people with disabilities, making things easier for companies by consistently reducing or abolishing both the contribution and tax burdens.
Lastly, I consider it essential for research in Europe to play a fundamental role, through its centres, in the development of technologies intended to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities.
Finally, may I emphasise the role that the Member States must play in improving the skills and promoting the specific professional training of people who cooperate within voluntary associations and the social cooperatives, in order to provide adequate professional training which is suited to the different forms of disabilities.
We welcome the European Commission's proposal to make 2003 the year of disabled citizens but its impact will be diminished if the Commission does not, during that same year, publish a general disability discrimination directive which offers comprehensive civil rights to disabled people in Europe, similar to the American Disabilities Act, on the other side of the Atlantic.
We are pleased that the Socrates Programme offers additional support for disabled participants, but point out that there is a long way to go before the extra costs of disability, the provision of specialist transport, personal assistance and sign language interpreters are provided for in all mainstream European programmes to make equal participation a reality.
We had 97 amendments in committee, and we have only five for this plenary session.
When we speak about a barrier-free Europe for people with disabilities, our main focus is always on legislation, on new innovation with regard to buildings or access to transport.
I commend this report to the House and would ask that it should not just be an expression of good intentions or the conscience of the Members of this House or of the Commission, but lead to real action before 2003, so that then when we celebrate the European Year for the Disabled Citizen, we can actually say that we have made progress and moved beyond some of the barriers.
Although we might not realise it, we are not nevertheless mistaken in stating that the number of people suffering some form of disability in the European Union stands at around 10% of the population, which currently means some 37 million people, and that disability is not a homogenous category.
We could say that there is no such thing as disability, but rather there are disabled people and therefore, whether the disabilities are visible or invisible, slight or serious, single or multiple, chronic or intermittent, whether they affect mobility, hearing, sight or speech, all of these people - and I repeat, people - have to face difficult barriers when it comes to accessing the various aspects or areas of their social lives despite these limitations.
I would like specifically to refer to the area of employment in relation to this policy which is intended to create a barrier-free Europe and furthermore a Europe with a high level of employment.
It seems to me to be extremely important that 2003 be declared European Year of Disabled Citizens.
It seems equally important - maybe more - that each day we reinforce the idea that each and every disabled person is one more citizen, one more European of the almost 400 million Europeans who are protected by Article 13 of the EC Treaty and who expect specific actions, the coordination of policies within the European Union and who expect to see an increase in people' s awareness and sensitivity, since it may be that the main barrier they face is a lack of awareness.
Mr President, the report by our fellow Member, Marie-Thérèse Hermange, gives some very positive support to the awareness campaign proposed by the Commission for the year 2003, which has been declared the European Year of Disabled Citizens.
The report also stresses the need for a sense of responsibility with regard to equal treatment in the labour market, vocational training and education.
I would add that the proposal to monitor and evaluate the measures adopted seems to be a very positive step, as does the transition from a simple intergovernmental policy to a Community policy in this area.
I can only see two shortcomings.
On the one hand, the report adopts, in my view, an extremely hesitant attitude towards businesses with regard to the employment of people with disabilities, and the proposal regarding the income of people with disabilities who are in employment is much too weak - and I quote 'an income at least equal to the level of benefits received by people who are not in employment' .
On the other hand, the ambiguous nature of the part of paragraph 20 which relates to research into therapies at the beginning of life must, in my opinion, be withdrawn, which justifies the amendment tabled by my group.
Incidentally, this report was much needed and I believe, as do my colleagues, that it is also extremely good.
Mr President, have you seen how we all agree on this issue?
There is no dissent: we all want society to recognise that people with disabilities should receive what it is right for them to have.
It is the governments which do not want to give people with disabilities what it is right to give them.
Mr President, this communication reflects the European Commission' s intention to maintain and further promote the policy for a European Union without barriers.
We need to recognise the importance of this basic position on people with disabilities, irrespective of their individual disability, and of their needs as a whole as citizens, producers and consumers.
This new concept should also inform corresponding policies in the Member States.
The point is whether or not the Member States are mature enough to look at it from this angle.
So the message is that we are moving from an awareness to practicalities and that the aim is to ensure that these people play a full part in economic and social life.
Mr President, the report quite rightly speaks out against discrimination, of which 37 million disabled people in the European Union are victims.
How can we tolerate a situation in which insurance companies refuse to insure disabled people or overcharge them, which is a form of discrimination.
The first is preconception and relates to cultural and political change and the second is the need for equal opportunities and equal access to all types of activity.
To give you a clear idea of the numbers involved, 37 million people with disabilities equate to about 9 countries the size of Denmark.
I should like to point out that we have had three interesting examples of this in the short interval between the Commission communication and the report.
This consultation at European level, which is now ready for signing, involved the airlines and the Commission, as well as groups of people with disabilities, the aim being to agree on specific, binding undertakings to safeguard the rights of all passengers and people with disabilities.
The second interesting example is the e-EUROPE initiative, which incorporates five different specific lines of approach defining the needs of people with disabilities as regards access to all the new technologies and IT systems.
Honourable members, as you have rightly pointed out, we need specific action and, of course, we need to take account of the fact that, at European level, there is the potential to add value to the policies of the Member States, given that this sector still comes almost entirely within the jurisdiction of the Member States.
Thanks to the catalytic role of the European Parliament, we recently managed to adopt the directive banning discrimination against people with disabilities in the workplace in record time.
I also think employment policy and strategy are worth mentioning.
We shall come back to this again this year, in a bid to set specific quantitative targets at European and national level for the participation of people with disabilities in the employment strategy programme, be it in the form of training, lifelong learning, access to new technologies or subsidised jobs.
Regulation 1408/71 does not in fact make provision for transfers or for discussing the question of disability benefits.
At present we are discussing the political framework for 2003.
Of course, we shall be discussing the matter with Parliament before we draft our overall proposal, but 2003 will be a huge challenge for all of us, because we shall need to show that we are capable of action, not just words.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
On behalf of the Members of the European Parliament, I wish to express my thanks for the excellent work carried out by our sign language interpreter during this sitting, which has enabled us to provide everyone with greater equality of access to our debates.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
In this new programme, an overall approach is adopted, both for health and the methods, mechanisms and practices used to tackle health issues.
Thus, the programme sets three objectives, to be achieved through close overall and two-way cooperation between Member States.
Another factor which I consider extremely important is the budget.
Furthermore, we should not forget for an instant the fact that, after successive crises - bovine spongiform encephalopathy, dioxin, foot-and-mouth - public health is a major EU priority, even taking precedence over its other policies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for a Public Health Action Programme for 2001-2006 is a well-meaning attempt to overcome the current fragmentation of European health policy into numerous individual programmes.
I will vote against all these proposed amendments, and also protest vigorously about the fact that we are discussing this report in plenary this week even though the translation was only available on Monday.
Mr President, today is our first reading of one of the most important matters of concern to the citizens of Europe, the action programme for public health.
This is the first time advances in European policy in the health sector have been set out, achievements and weaknesses have been identified and the difficulties in applying a consistent Community policy have been made clear.
The European Parliament must use its vote on the report in question to signal its support for health promotion, the principle of prevention and improved medical services at all levels.
Obviously, sectors such as research and the environment impact directly on public health and proper account must be taken of them in action programmes.
If we are to win the confidence of European citizens in Community policies on issues which affect them, specific problems relating directly or indirectly to health need to be examined promptly and transparently.
Under the new programme, three global objectives replace the eight programmes currently in operation.
We are hopeful that the new, special objectives will be selected not in a fragmentary manner and under pressure, but on the basis of the priorities set by the World Health Organisation and other organisations working in this sector.
I must, of course, stress that the confidentiality of personal data on individuals or groups of people must be respected when collecting information.
I think it is very important that mental health has been included for the first time as an area for action under a public health programme.
Finally, as regards the budget, even though I believe that funding should not be sparing in this sector and am aware of the objective difficulties of the budget, I believe that an increase of EUR 80 million, i.e.
It could have expressed a lot more in the way of hopes for the future.
Mr President, public health is a major area of activity for the European Union as the Treaty of Amsterdam does indeed oblige the Union to take account of the health issue in all areas of its work.
There are many conflicts to come, and we can only hope that the Commission will work on these proposals and then the Council of Ministers and Parliament will clarify this situation further in the second reading.
Initially he talks about the necessary coordination, not only in the networks which deal with health, but with the Member States and also with the non-governmental organisations.
And, as an epilogue, he also talks about a proposal which we agree with: to create a centre for the coordination and monitoring of the health situation.
Mr President, I welcome this report and the three main elements to it, of which we are already aware.
Communicable diseases which affect the health of our citizens do not stop at borders.
Citizens of each Member State must have access to the wide range of information concerning the factors affecting their health and on the way in which public health systems within that country meet their needs.
This proposal also covers the important legislative initiatives in areas such as safety of blood and blood derivatives, and the implementation of wider anti-smoking campaigns.
The Commission must be given a central coordinating role in public health to deal with illnesses, from detecting their origin to their actual treatment.
It is very important that homeopathy should also be included as a medical treatment within this European Community action plan on public health.
Mr President, at the end of last year I concluded my contribution to the debate on the extension of the European public health programme with the observation that, in my opinion, the developments in public health in the EU are going too far.
In addition, the budget has been increased from EUR 300 to 500 million, and should partly be utilised to set up a European coordination centre.
That will generate funds for the European Union, instead of the European Union spending money on projects which Member States could implement and finance.
Furthermore, the European Union could do more for the candidate countries in terms of promoting public health, where even basic health care is found wanting.
Now we have to take this forward with the reforms of our health action programme that this report suggests.
It will not cost the tax-payers an arm and a leg: just EUR 83 million per year, if our committee position is accepted - a tiny sum for a massive challenge.
We are told that the Council will not accept EUR 83 million per year for six years, but EUR 63 million per year is what was being spent under the old programme.
If you take the Commission proposal of EUR 50 million and reduce it by the same amount then you would be cutting health budgets to EUR 37 million in real terms when we are taking on these new responsibilities.
Mr President, this proposal for an action programme in public health is greatly welcomed by this Parliament.
Health is an issue which opinion poll after opinion poll shows is the number one priority for our citizens across the European Union.
We often talk about getting closer to citizens and, with an appalling turnout across the Union at the last European elections, we should never forget what is important to our citizens.
As we all know, Article 152 gives public health greater importance than ever before, so that health has to be taken into consideration in all European Union policy areas.
With this programme we can directly add value to the lives of European Union citizens.
By taking a horizontal approach to public health, we can make the best use of limited resources.
With more health information for our citizens, quality of life will surely improve.
This programme represents a fundamental step forward in the development of effective European public health policies.
It is important because protecting and improving public health is at the very centre of our citizens, concerns and expectations.
As we are all aware, the relevance of our public health policy is fast becoming a litmus test of the European Union's credibility for our citizens.
The programme will address these preoccupations by providing the means, support and actions in those areas where the Community can make a real difference as foreseen in Article 152 as amended by the Amsterdam Treaty.
The programme under consideration today responds comprehensively to the shared concerns which the Commission, Parliament and the Council have expressed in the past about the shortcomings of the previous programming approach.
It provides a horizontal framework which will allow a policy-driven approach to be taken in the future on the basis of a broad view of public health.
The programme identifies three strands of action that together will enable us to identify and tackle the major health problems that we face.
Third, confronting the key underlying causes of ill-health related not only to personal lifestyles, but also to other key determinants: social, economic and environmental factors and so on.
With so many amendments, it is not feasible for me to make specific comments on each of them.
I will, therefore, concentrate on four key areas where there are several amendments which we cannot accept and where I believe that some clarification of the Commission's position will be particularly helpful.
Even though most amendments respect and indeed reinforce the horizontal or policy-driven approach of the programme, several, such as Amendments Nos 12, 65, 66, 85, 91, 100, 111, 112 and 113, go against this approach.
Events in recent years have clearly demonstrated the need to retain such flexibility.
Efforts have been made by Parliament not to infringe the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, the responsibilities of Member States in the area of public health.
The ideas it contains, for example on health impact assessment, are welcome, but for me this work should not be approached separately from the other actions in the programme.
In fact, health in other policies is a fundamental feature of the entire health strategy as such.
Activities related to health impact assessment should thus be firmly placed within the proposed structure of the programme and not added as a further separate strand of action.
There is no doubt that we will have to make significant efforts to put in place coordination, monitoring and implementation of capacity which is adequate to the technical challenge offered by this programme.
Without any doubt the issue is a priority for the three institutions in this process.
I am currently investigating various options for ensuring this capability, for example, ways to strengthen internal capacities or the new possibility offered by the externalisation initiative to establish one or more specialised bodies for different implementation tasks.
However, the amendments include a substantial number of references to the creation of a health coordination and monitoring centre in the programme decision.
Let me be very clear about our position on this.
But the proposal of Parliament to set up a centre within the Commission, which is named in a number of amendments to the programme decision, raises a number of serious legal and institutional difficulties.
In particular, it infringes on the Commission's right to determine its own organisation.
Therefore I cannot accept Amendments Nos 11 and 49, nor can I accept those parts of other amendments which contain a reference to a "health coordination and monitoring centre".
To summarise our position, I believe we are largely in agreement on what needs to be done but we need to reflect carefully on how we achieve this, given the legal, institutional and budgetary implications.
In keeping with this agreed objective let me confirm my commitment to work actively with Parliament and the Council in the weeks ahead to find agreed solutions so that adequate structures, expertise and resources will be available for the proper implementation of the programme.
That brings me to the third point - the budget.
The Commission's proposal is for a total budget of EUR 300 million over a period of six years.
There are two amendments on the table today to increase this amount respectively to EUR 500 million - Amendment No 72 - and EUR 380 million - Amendment No 109.
This was drawn up on the basis of a cost estimate for the actions included in the programme, and is in conformity with the financial perspectives.
I cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 37, 72 and 109 on the total budget for the programme.
In addition, Amendments Nos 72, 103 and 109 seek to set limits on how we spend the programme budget.
Amendments Nos 72 and 109 stipulate that each strand of actions must receive at least 25% of the budget.
Amendment No 103 proposes a restriction on the use to be made of calls for tender and, in addition, raises the ceilings for the percentage of a project's costs that can be covered by a subvention.
Such restrictions undermine the essential principle that the programme must be flexible and able to respond to new challenges, emerging risks and public concerns over the coming six years.
Therefore I cannot accept either a minimum amount for expenditure on each strand or the limit on the use of calls for tender.
Amendments Nos 42 and 73 call for a mixed committee combining management and advisory procedures.
Therefore the Commission can accept these amendments.
However, Amendment No 74 specifies a large number of tasks for the committee to perform in management mode.
The sheer number of tasks would be counterproductive with regard to our flexibility, in implementing the programme and the proper functioning of the committee.
For this reason I cannot agree to some of the provisions in this amendment, for example on the annual budget and arrangements and procedures for selecting and financing projects as according to Article 234 of the EC Treaty the Commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 105 concerning the submission of annual work programmes to Parliament for opinion.
These are: Amendments Nos 33, 36, 37, 41, 62, 65, 66, 71, 72, 83, 85, 86, 88, 89, 91, 92, 94, 97, 99, 100, 102, 104, 105, 109, 110, 111, 112 and 113.
I accept only in part Amendments Nos 6, 11, 12, 14, 27, 29, 32, 44, 48, 49, 50, 51, 54, 57, 63, 70, 74, 76, 77, 79, 80, 93, 103 and 106.
On the other hand, as I have indicated I can accept in full the remaining 61 amendments.
Indeed, the fact that the Commission can accept in whole or in part 85 of the 113 amendments shows our willingness to take on board Parliament's substantial policy contributions and our confidence that together we will be able to get this important programme off the ground as quickly as possible.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Byrne.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
And under the auspices of this Communication, the Commission has to date begun legal actions, if our calculations are correct, against nine of the fifteen Member States.
The Group of the European Peoples' Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats' criticism is that, by means of an interpretative communication, the Commission has unilaterally set the rules of the game in such an important area, and this is proved by the fact that the Stockholm European Council has dealt with it, thereby side-stepping, in our view, the legislative competences of this Parliament and of the Council.
I assume that Commissioner Bolkestein will be aware that the Court of Justice has already set the precedent of annulling an interpretative communication similar to this one, on pension funds, precisely because the Commission exceeded its authority.
But it is also the case, Commissioner, that this Communication of 1997 has become obsolete because of recent economic developments.
Of these new circumstances which I have just referred to, I am going to expand on the opening up of national markets in key economic sectors, in which there still exist within the European Union monopoly systems which create asymmetry.
In fact, in accordance with Community guidelines, certain Member States have made great efforts to open up their telecommunications and other sectors to competition.
Commissioner, on Thursday, this Parliament will vote on a resolution which will establish its position at the end of the debate.
I am convinced that the Commission will at all times apply the interinstitutional agreement which binds us and that you, Commissioner, will therefore act in accordance with your powers of legislative initiative and consequently present this House with a specific proposal immediately.
This is therefore a widespread situation, which demonstrates that the principles guiding the 1997 Communication referred to earlier, are no longer valid.
We therefore urge that the relevant legislation be updated, with the due participation of this Parliament, and that this should take place, on the one hand, to eliminate these positions of privilege and, on the other hand, to safeguard the actions of the Member States, which have behaved in accordance with the process of the opening up of markets, which are liberalising them and which need the relevant guarantees so that the companies which enter into this European internal market have all the safeguards resulting from being a part of it.
May I begin by saying that the communication of 19 July 1997 on certain legal aspects concerning intra-EU investments to which both speakers made reference was adopted by the Commission, as was the case for a series of other communications, on the basis of its exclusive competence stemming from its role as guardian of the Treaties.
As is specified in the communication itself, its objective is to indicate to national authorities and economic operators in Member States how the Commission interprets the provisions of the Treaty on capital movements and the right of establishment in order to reduce the risk of divergent legal interpretations.
In accordance with Article 56 of the EC Treaty all restrictions on capital movements between Member States, be they discriminatory or non-discriminatory, are prohibited.
All restrictions applied to these capital movements can pose compatibility problems with, in particular, Article 56 which deals with the free movement of capital, and Article 43, which deals with freedom of establishment.
The communication to which I referred a little while ago states that, in conformity with the very notion of direct investments, nationals of other Member States of the European Union should be free to acquire controlling stakes, exercise their voting rights attached to those stakes, and manage domestic companies under the same conditions as are laid down in a given Member State for its own nationals.
As far as the freedom of establishment is concerned these restrictions may be motivated by the exercise of official authority or on the grounds of public policy, public security or public health - Article 46.
Finally, Member States may take measures which they consider necessary for the protection of the essential interests of their security which are connected with the defence sector - Article 296.
In conclusion, may I say that as Members of this Parliament may be aware, the Commission will shortly have a debate on restrictions on intra-Community investment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution which we are discussing this evening raises two issues.
This is why I think it is absolutely crucial, in these very important cases, that directives or regulations are submitted and - as is right and proper - adopted with the participation of Parliament and the Council.
The problem which we are addressing raises a second issue, namely competition in the European Community.
Anyway the issue we are addressing tonight is the extent to which a Member State is permitted under a treaty to place restrictions upon nationals of other Member States or its own nationals, I suppose, from conducting intra-EU investment within the sphere of its economy.
The issue is of fundamental importance for the correct functioning of the European single market and I would like to thank colleagues for raising the subject this time given the number of cases the Commission has referred to the Court of Justice over recent years.
In 1998, such investment totalled over EUR 132 billion; in 1999, it had increased by over 80% to over EUR 240 billion.
In its 1997 communication, the Commission established its guidelines for the existence of these legal assurances.
It did so in a rather non-transparent way through a communication that was not discussed either in Parliament or by the Council.
It really is rather an uncomfortable situation that such a dichotomy has been created between the establishment of fundamental Community rules and Member State regulations.
The Commission, using the communication as its operational guide, has since taken legal action against six Member States before the Court of Justice and opened infringement proceedings against the others.
It cannot be justified that the Commission has set up its own framework of rules under which it has been bringing actions against Member States, which have gone through enormous difficulties in bringing forward necessary privatisation programmes.
I agree with the Commission, when it states that the national interest argument used to justify such legal assurances by Member States, as has frequently happened, cannot be accepted as an adequate justification for such measures.
The national interest argument is simply not sufficiently transparent since it can cover a particularly wide range of economic and/or non-economic criteria.
In 1999, a decree was issued which - in that typically Italian way - modified the golden share without making any substantial change.
Otherwise - as frequently happens - this excuse is, in actual fact, used to consolidate national governments and majority parties' power of veto over the free placing on the market of public companies; the financial markets are unable to establish the best, most efficient, optimum distribution of power and therefore of the management of companies in sectors which are highly important, key, crucial sectors for Europe, such as the telecommunications or energy sectors in particular.
The fact that Enel in Italy or Deutsche Post in Germany or France Télécom exploit positions of monopoly in order to go and grab areas which have been liberalised in the markets of other countries must be opposed as dominant positions, as State aid, but this cannot be used as an excuse to allow countries which are moving towards a market-based economy to keep powers in companies which are supposed to have been privatised.
In fact, the golden share has been in the past and continues to be a barrier to the creation of genuinely European public services companies.
We must not advocate that governments use the golden share as a shield to prevent companies being bought on the market in order to direct the purchase of privatised companies towards preferred groups because, in the long run, this leads to non-competitive markets, as is happening now.
It issued the communication in 1997 in order to clear up certain misunderstandings in connection with the relevant articles of the Treaty.
So in both these instances one sees that the Commission has taken action against the attempts, whether by a Member State, or in the case of the United States by a third country, to block investments by companies, whether private or public from other Member States, in privatised companies of the home state.
To return to the main point at issue, the Commission has done no more than interpret the relevant articles of the Treaty - basically Articles 56 and 43.
Naturally the Commission does not, in the end, decide what the legal situation is.
This Commissioner has played a certain role in this and has taken a number of Member States to court for making use of the golden share.
The Commission interprets the treaty and the Court of Justice decides.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The debate is closed. (The sitting was suspended at 11.15 p.m.)
