Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 14 April 2000.
Madam President, I would like to make a statement on this International Press Freedom Day on the situation in Tunisia and request that you intervene.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
We have just learnt that the brother of Taoufik Ben Brik has been sentenced to three months in prison.
I am referring to the disarray in Parliament' s calendars and agendas, at least for this current year.
On 13 April, we had received a departmental note stipulating which days were holidays and which were not.
However, to change dates, as this departmental note indicates, to introduce holidays which did not exist before, is a serious lapse in planning in an institution with 600 MEPs and thousands of employees.
I would just like to say that I propose to raise this matter with the Bureau this evening.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
The report is accessible via the Internet, as is the Spanish Government' s response.
A week ago, a Spanish Court sentenced five former government officials, including a Civil Guard general, to up to 71 years in prison.
Madam President, coming back to a point that was raised earlier on: 9 May is, as you know, Europe Day and Parliament will be closed.
Thank you, Mr Miller.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
It was reported in the news this morning that the euro has already fallen below the psychological limit of 90 cents, which augurs even more worrying and serious falls in value.
Somebody has to give an explanation and announce measures that can restore minimum levels of psychological confidence in what has now become the common currency of many of the Union' s Member States.
Thank you, Mr Ribeiro.
Madam President, my Group intends to request that, in the debate on monetary policy, a Commission statement on the information policy that it is planning on the euro be added.
It seems to me that in this respect we should be as aggressive in our defence of the euro as our counterparts in the United States Congress are in defence of the dollar.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am perhaps the longest-standing parliamentarian in this House, having been elected to the French Parliament 45 years ago and having sat in this House for sixteen years.
Madam President, in these circumstances Parliament has powers which are fully regulated, in the absence of a uniform electoral system, by means of Article 12 of the 1976 Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by Direct Universal Suffrage, of which paragraph 2, which I will read in French, since that is the text I possess, says: "Lorsque la vacance résulte de l'application des dispositions nationales en vigueur dans un État membre, celui-ci en informe le Parlement européen qui en prend acte" . [ "Where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a Member State, the latter shall inform the European Parliament, which shall take note of the fact" .] We are therefore talking about a formal and fully regulated competence.
For that reason, Madam President, as soon as I received a note from the competent departments, I called a meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee, which will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Madam President, I would like to speak pursuant to Rule 6, in the first instance, and then, if you permit me, to Rule 7(4)(2), but I shall be brief and to the point.
Rule 6 incorporates the provisions covering the waiver of parliamentary immunity into our Rules of Procedure.
Review of the financial perspective The next item is the statement by the Commission on the review of the financial perspective.
Mr Levi, formerly Spokesman for the Commission, has been appointed Director of the Forward Studies Unit.
All these staffing decisions were taken as part of the reform of the Commission and I think they were the right decisions in the context of the further reform measures that are needed.
Let me remind you that the Berlin decision on Agenda 2000 was taken on exactly the same day as the outbreak of war in Kosovo.
According to the Commission' s estimates, the financial requirement for Albania, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and also Montenegro up to the year 2006 will be EUR 1.5 billion, i.e.
The view of the Commission is that we will have to raise the external action ceiling here for the next few years by EUR 300 billion a year.
In this connection, the Commission made the following proposal on financing this additional requirement: in the years 2001 and 2002, these resources should be taken from resources previously earmarked for agricultural policy and reallocated to the external action heading.
The necessary redeployment is the result mainly of comparable cuts in the TACIS programme for the countries of the former Soviet Union.
Let me conclude by pointing out the following: there is another point where the decision on the revision of the financial perspective also responds to a request by Parliament.
If you are taking money from Category 1 for the next two years, where do you expect that money to come from in 2003?
But the Commission is proposing that both arms of the budgetary authority should try to make savings in particular areas during the annual budgetary procedure in order to find these 300 million.
Let me stress once again that, in my view, we can finance this increase in foreign policy resources within the overall ceiling decided in Berlin and that the appropriations for Serbia should only be disbursed once we see real democratic developments there.
Having said that, I fail to see your grounds for considering that agricultural expenditure is not going to be used in its entirety, as it should, nor how you could release sums, that you describe as minimal, for the heading covering international actions and foreign policy.
Fine, I can accept that, but what gives you the right - you spoke of very specific criteria, so tell us what they are - what gives you the right to think that too much money has been earmarked for other parts of the world, apart from the fact that you need that money for Kosovo.
Mr Bourlanges, to answer your last question, the World Bank' s estimate of the requirements in Kosovo was indeed expressed in dollars.
In its proposal the Commission has now allocated EUR 1.1 billion for the period 2000-2006.
It is not therefore charging appropriations already disbursed for Kosovo in 1999.
In reply to what you said about agricultural expenditure, let me point out the following: this year, given the fluctuations in the exchange rates, we will be spending about EUR 500 million less on agriculture and the estimates for next year are that we will need about 650 million less, assuming a parity euro-dollar rate.
I can assure you that the Commission did not approach the question of how to finance this new priority, this new task, by looking for some kind of bottomless pit; it simply took a very practical decision for the years 2001 and 2002.
In practice, the Commission proposal means redeploying EUR 600 million from agriculture policy for the years 2001 and 2002.
In the event of a political change in Serbia during 2001, we could also resort to the flexibility reserve.
Mr Manisco, the Commission regards it as most important to promote cooperation between the states and the regions with funds from the European budget, with your help.
That is why the proposal on the review of the financial perspective specifically earmarks approximately EUR 80-90 million for cooperation projects.
Secondly, as I pointed out, we have allocated EUR 40 million for aid to Serbia in this year' s budget as well, but these funds will only be used in a targeted manner in areas where the democratic opposition forces are currently endeavouring to establish a democratic system and the rule of law.
This year' s budget includes EUR 540 million for the region as a whole.
This item is closed.
Vote - (NL) Mr President, I can advise you how to vote on each of the four amendments.
According to experts and specialists in child nutrition, milk is indeed essential to the proper intellectual and physical development of children, of all children.
A proposal such as this represented a threat to the health of our children.
Furthermore, it totally contradicted the conclusions of the Agriculture Council of 14 and 15 June 1999.
It was only after long, intense discussions that the Commission proposed to increase the budget line by EUR 31 million, with the total amount committed to aid for providing schools with milk then rising to EUR 84 million.
This is the only way to ensure that this system survives.
We therefore view the Commission' s proposal concerning cofinancing as a step in the right direction.
The reason for this intervention is to clarify why this House should oppose the Commission' s proposals to cut subsidies for school milk by half.
As I have stated in my report, what is particularly disconcerting is the fact that seven out of a total of fourteen Essen specific projects have still not secured adequate funding, nor has a definitive timetable been drawn up for their implementation.
The main aim of Community funding is to finance feasibility and technical studies, as well as interest subsidies and loan guarantees.
The fifth proposal is that the Commission should accord greater importance to the forthcoming revision of the TEN guidelines in order to improve access from Europe' s island and remote regions to the central regions.
Another proposal in my report is that there should be close cooperation between the Commission, Germany, Austria and Italy on the Brenner base-level tunnel, a Community project of the utmost importance which, of course, comes within the scope of trans-European networks.
Community policy in the field of trans-European networks is of major importance because it is not possible to have a common transport policy without a convergent infrastructures policy, as is stressed in the Maastricht Treaty.
However, the Member States must respect the pledges made, and the Commission must also take into account the guidelines established for the B5-700 budget line - a major budget line established in 1998 - promoting more environmentally friendly models and, above all, taking the different factors into consideration where a trans-European link passes through densely populated areas or highly industrialised regions.
For this reason, we also consider that appropriations set aside for these projects must not exceed 50% and that, after due analysis, the amounts still available for projects on which little progress has been made could be recouped and used for other projects with the same priorities, including environmental priorities.
The annual report shows that shortcomings exist in the way money spent on the development of trans-European networks is monitored, and insufficient details are available as to the results achieved through the use of funds.
The rapporteur has quite rightly pointed out that, of the fourteen Essen specific projects, seven still require confirmation of their funding and timetables.
In the future, greater care should be taken in selecting such specific projects.
At the same time, we shall also have to give consideration to the link between regional policy and transport.
The trans-European transport networks, and the 14 specific projects in particular, have not succeeded in any of the aims they were in fact intended to achieve, even though a great deal of money has already been invested.
On the contrary, unemployment has risen: even in 1995, in the ten poorest regions, unemployment was seven times higher than in the richest regions, while today it is eight times higher, and rising.
The Commission' s 1998 annual report on trans-European transport networks gives a clear overall picture of the progress that has been made in certain specific projects as well as containing valuable information on the contributions made to these infrastructural projects by the various sources of Community funding.
I share the concern of the rapporteur over the fact that seven of the fourteen Essen projects are still facing difficulties because their funding is not totally guaranteed and no timetables have been drawn up for their implementation.
It would be useful if the Commission, in its future annual reports, specified what funding has been provided by national, regional and local public bodies and by the private sector, in addition to European funding, with a view to setting up the trans-European transport networks.
I hope that in these new guidelines they will accord greater importance to improving access to trans-European network funding for Europe' s island and remote regions.
A positive start has been made, but the situation looks pretty grim as regards the other projects and, in particular, for the remote regions, as Mr Collins has already pointed out.
So, in response to what Mrs Schroedter said, I feel that we must not lose sight of the fact that what these major projects are mainly concerned with is the development of railway infrastructures.
There are, however, difficult choices to be made in order to avoid the huge pollution-related problems currently in the news in Austria, as well as in Italy and Germany.
This concerns Member States, of course, and certainly Italy in particular, which has not supported this project with sufficient vigour, but it also concerns the Commission, as the rapporteur made very clear.
It is the Commission' s duty to come up with measures which encourage both public authorities and private companies to invest in these huge trans-European networks.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of an efficient infrastructure for transport in Europe is essential, particularly for isolated regions and rural areas, in France as well as in many other States.
It is important that the general rules governing the granting of Community financial aid to the trans-European networks are strictly complied with.
Indeed, trans-European transport policy has considerable repercussions as regards the sustainable development of local economies and job creation.
We endorse paragraph 9 in the report, which states that the Commission should faithfully adhere to the budgetary guidelines established for TEN projects.
The Commission must, as quickly as possible, put forward fundamental measures and incentives to promote these specific projects and, in coordination with the Member States concerned, draw up a timetable for their implementation.
Moreover, this project will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the Union as a whole.
In fact she has insulted us as well, for Parliament and the Council adopted the 1996 guideline by codecision on a proposal from the Council.
Let me just mention two projects that have been successful.
Our committee proposes a four-sided agreement between the three states concerned and the Union.
One can therefore quite easily understand the great interest this country and its representatives have in trans-European networks, which I wish to talk about today.
The Commission has presented us in its 1998 annual report with a rough picture of the state of progress in the construction of these networks, a picture which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism - which, in the report under discussion, is asking for greater efficiency in the whole network construction operation - would like to be more detailed and informative.
The trans-European networks policy is not, however, being implemented in such a way as to resolve this crucial issue, despite the fact that it was introduced with the specific aim of establishing direct links between remote countries and the Union' s central regions.
The debate on the report by Mr Hatzidakis, whom I congratulate, provides us with a good opportunity to get to grips with the political dimension of the current situation and to try to find a solution to it, in line with the decisive reform of the trans-European networks policy which is due to be implemented in the 2000-2006 period.
I hope that we will be able to bring about the changes that the European Union needs in order to achieve the regional balance and social cohesion that we are advocating.
Mr President, this annual report clearly shows that Europe is not providing itself with the means to implement its trans-European transport networks policy.
It therefore proposes to have recourse to private funds, in the form of partnerships, and this, moreover, is an essential element of the project.
This approach to rail transport raises the issue of public service.
We must make use of private companies because they profit from the infrastructures, but in the form of tax deductions and not by them having an interest in the capital of railway companies.
The European Commission' s annual report on trans-European networks once again sets out the progress made with many transport projects and emphasises the important part the TENs play in protecting the environment.
I take the view that the 14 projects decided at Essen play a very significant role in the extension of the European transport networks and, like many speakers before me, I want to stress the enormous importance of the Brenner base-level tunnel.
Now we also need a clear political resolve, and not just on the part of the Member States.
Trans-European networks are essential for the completion of the internal market, but also for the economic and social cohesion of the European Union.
The Commission' s report on the implementation of the trans-European networks in 1998 outlines, in general terms, the results of the financial implementation of the priorities that were established, such as rail transport to exceed the 50% minimum that had been laid down.
Firstly, the need for investment in the trans-European networks that compensates for the decrease seen during the 1990s, not just by increasing appropriations, but also through the participation of the private sector and through the use of Eurobonds.
Secondly, the adoption of fundamental measures which will stimulate progress in the seven specific projects still experiencing difficulties, so that their completion can be scheduled and the necessary work accomplished.
Thirdly, that in future reviews of the trans-European networks, greater importance is attached to the access of the remote regions to the central regions and to island regions.
To conclude, I should like to stress the fact that economic and social cohesion is not compatible with the Commission' s working proposals on this matter for 2000, because by seeking to concentrate investment in existing bottlenecks, we would be favouring the central regions, to the detriment of remote regions, such as Portugal, which are obviously the regions with the greatest need for transport networks that bring them closer to more highly-developed areas.
The participation of private capital will necessarily result in a quest for profit, to the detriment both of users and of those who work in the sector.
As stipulated in the explanatory statement of the report, public investment is continually decreasing and in less than twenty years, has fallen from 1.5% of the European Union' s GNP to 0.9%.
If the Member States of the European Union do not adopt a new policy, or, in other words, if they do not prioritise investment in public services rather than endless subsidies to the bosses, any decision on a genuine public transport service operating on a European scale under the best safety conditions will remain nothing but empty rhetoric.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission' s report states that 1998 saw the consolidation of the trans-European networks and outlines the progress made with various projects in the area of transport, energy and tele- and data communications.
Unless there is an increase in the financial contribution made by national, regional and local public bodies and by the private sector, we will not see any significant progress in this area in the foreseeable future.
I should nevertheless like to stress the fact that recourse to private finance should never be an obstacle to the development of communications in regions which currently have a per capita income well below the Community average.
With regard to the future review of the guidelines for trans-European transport networks, I feel I must once again draw the Commission' s attention to the need to attach greater importance to improving access to Europe' s remote and isolated regions, and to focus particularly on establishing sustainable transport networks.
The Commission' s work programme for the year 2000 lays down that the review of the guidelines for trans-European transport networks must concentrate on reducing bottlenecks in order to rationalise traffic in Europe and to make it flow more freely.
Mr President, growth and employment in Europe depend to a large degree upon exploiting European infrastructure effectively.
It is no secret that I am very much in favour of a permanent link between Denmark and Germany, and I am glad that the new Danish Minister for Transport is also a supporter of the project.
Building a permanent link between Germany and Denmark will create many new and much-needed jobs in the area.
Mr President, I would firstly like to express my sincere gratitude for the work accomplished by Mr Hatzidakis, chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the review of the trans-European networks which, in the coming months, I will have to present to this House.
Accordingly, I will take this opportunity to make some observations on behalf of the Commission.
Firstly, I fully agree with Mr Hatzidakis on the importance given to Community policy on trans-European networks and I also share Parliament' s concern, expressed not only by Mr Hatzidakis, but also by the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets and by other MEPs, on the need for this policy to be provided with adequate financial resources.
In this respect, I would like to thank Parliament for its support for the provision of a total of EUR 4.6 billion for the period 2000-2006 for this chapter.
In this respect, I share the European Parliament' s concern with regard to the adequate funding of transport networks, but I believe that we can jointly assume some of these responsibilities.
I would like to remind you that we know that Community support for projects carried out during 1996, 1997 and 1998 has accounted for 30% of the total, which is a very significant figure.
It is true that these include projects in Objective 1 areas and cohesion countries, which has allowed the percentage of cofinancing to be greater.
However, I must tell you that we cannot provide you with overall information, because we are not only talking about Community finance but also about finance provided by individual countries and private sectors in some cases, as well as regions and local authorities.
Furthermore, some of the projects present great technical difficulties.
We are talking about 54 kilometres of tunnel in one of our most mountainous areas, with a series of unknown factors and uncertainties which require that the project be guaranteed as far as possible before we make such a huge investment as the one required for the Brenner tunnel.
It is perhaps better to begin something late, but to begin with all the guarantees in place, than to find half way through that the studies have not warned us of some difficulty or other, meaning that we have to go into reverse, which would cause even greater delays.
Furthermore, I would like to point out that the level of funding in terms of the total appropriations for the 14 principal TEN projects has been 60%.
I will be presenting this review report and an initial proposal shortly.
So when we clear a bottleneck in Bordeaux, we are in fact benefiting the development of an area of the Iberian Peninsula.
What I mean to say is that acting in a central area does not always harm the interests of the remote areas, but, on the contrary, in many cases it is perfectly interrelated.
Mr President, lastly, I would like to refer to the question of the intelligent management of traffic.
This aspect will also be included as a key element in the review of the trans-European networks.
Thank you, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I will now move on to the key point in your communication, namely the fact that there is no external policy for European aviation, in other words that the rights with regard to third countries have been negotiated bilaterally.
The opportunities for business and job creation during the last decade have played a major part in the economies of countries in Europe and worldwide.
The report covers a number of areas and outlines fairly accurately the way the aviation industry has developed over the last ten years.
I fully accept that there are challenges which need to be addressed such as problems with congestion, in particular air traffic control.
However, I believe that the Commission has a responsibility to put forward more balanced views which do not undermine the value and success of an industry which has made an enormous contribution, not only to the countries of the European Union but worldwide.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supported Mr Sterckx' s report in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism as it will support it in plenary.
It would be better still if the amendment on passengers' right to information tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists were to be adopted in addition.
As rapporteur for a very good Commission communication on aviation and environment I know that the issue of environment and competitiveness is a very live one with strong feelings on both sides of the debate.
It makes the case that the world' s 16 000 commercial jet aircraft produce more than 600 million tonnes of CO2 every year - nearly as much as all the countries of Africa put together.
It makes the case that the number of people flying will almost double in the next fifteen years.
Mr Sterckx has included environment in this own report.
I very much welcome that but I would also like to see environment automatically mainstreamed through all Commission reports and communications.
The enormous competition within the industry has led to a price war in certain sectors.
The number of passengers and, alongside this, the number of flights, is growing at an alarming rate.
The pressure on personnel in the sector is increasing both socially and financially.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to shed more light on one aspect of the Sterckx report, the question of airspace control, air traffic control.
If we follow the example of the European Economic Area with Norway and Iceland, then there will no problem with including Switzerland in the same system.
Let us hope that if the Member States really provide the Vice-President with what she wants, she can then present us with a good proposal that also includes short-term measures which can enter into force this summer.
Another result of liberalisation has been the practice of co-sharing, of airline alliances, and in some instances even takeovers.
It is very easy to say that liberalisation in aviation has been a glowing success, without ever recognising that there is also a negative side.
My Group accepts that gradual liberalisation is a way forward but only if safety, working conditions and passenger rights are safe-guarded and strengthened.
My Group welcomes the latest decision by the Commission to launch a campaign to inform passengers of their rights - something which the airlines in particular have failed to do over many years.
Finally, my Group looks forward to receiving from the Commission its new proposals regarding slot-allocation, even though they have been a long time in coming.
Mr President, the report we are discussing today deals with the results of the liberalisation of the air transport sector in the European Union, which was concluded in 1993.
We have supported this liberalisation process so that bilateral barriers may be lifted, ownership restrictions changed, technical standards harmonised, and suitable safety standards established and so that the conditions of liberalisation may promote greater transparency with regard to how air transport development policy is framed and allow, above all, the inclusion of environmental considerations in production within the aeronautical industry, in tariff policy and in the management of air traffic.
A key point raised by the rapporteur is the current situation in which, while the aviation industry is liberalised and operates in an open European market, the authorities which control the air space, the airports and the regulating bodies, as well as the companies providing services to the air transport sector, still operate from an excessively local point of view.
We must not forget that European airspace is a mosaic made up of 15 sovereign Member States, which, for a variety of reasons, mainly military, find it difficult to relinquish part of their sovereignty in this area.
This proposal, aside from abrogating the sovereign right of each country over its own air space, will give rise to confusion and will have particularly negative and dangerous repercussions on air safety as, objectively speaking, the competition which is being vaunted here as the trump card will be competition for maximum profit and not for maximum air safety.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that the aim of Mr Sterckx' s report was to guarantee security, safety, consumer protection, fair competition and environmental protection.
Furthermore, paragraph 8 calls for, and I quote, "the operational bodies responsible for ATC to be privatised" .
We are totally opposed to any kind of further privatisation, which could exacerbate the already deteriorating working conditions, in this area which is so closely linked to passenger safety.
To conclude, in order to guarantee the primacy of safety regulations over all other considerations, air traffic control must remain a public and national service.
It has come, I believe, at a time when the aviation industry is very much in the limelight, what with the takeover agreement between Swiss Air and Sabena, the breakdown of the marriage between KLM and Alitalia, as well as the vicissitudes surrounding Malpensa.
It is estimated that air traffic will double in the next fifteen years.
What is actually preventing us from taking a number of additional measures, except for a powerful lobby of airline companies and a misconceived concept of sovereignty in some countries which refuse to let go of the management of their own national airspace?
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank our colleague, Dirk Sterckx, who has put an enormous amount of work into a report which is extremely important as it is a policy document that will lead to a great deal of further discussion.
I live in Bordeaux, but it is more expensive for me to fly from there to Lisbon than to fly to New York via Paris, and if I wish to fly to any other French city, I have to change aeroplanes at an airport in Paris.
Mr President, the resolution submitted for Parliament' s consideration on air transport contains serious dangers which I should like to highlight.
The resolution gives the green light to the deregulation of air transport and sees the privatisation of the main body of airlines and the development of unbridled competition as something positive.
Instead of establishing a joint transport development plan, the European Union, using an intermodal approach between air and rail, has, quite to the contrary, moved towards privatisation and deregulation.
The result of this is traffic saturation and pollution and, at the same time, a deterioration in working conditions and in the status of those employed in air transport, as companies subcontract as many of their activities as possible in order to minimise social costs.
The ATM 2000 report summarises the financial aims of this approach and it is pretty bad.
This is why we are opposed to this resolution, which in fact seeks to place air traffic control in the clutches of the financial interests of large companies, to the detriment of passenger safety.
The importance of this is clearly illustrated by the increase in the number of airlines or the increase, much less spectacular perhaps, but significant nevertheless, in the number of routes where there are more than two competitors.
Airlines have developed innovative strategies in order to adapt to the growth of the market and the challenges of competition, but despite their restructuring efforts they still suffer a large degree of fragmentation and financial fragility in comparison with their principal international competitors, and I am referring specifically to the US airlines.
It has appealed against them at the Court of Justice and I hope that the judgement of the Court will allow us to put an end to this situation and do what we have to do: enter into a bilateral agreement with the United States as the European Union as a whole, as a single internal market, and not divided up into different countries.
One of the objectives of the negotiation of a common transatlantic air space is precisely to resolve, by common agreement with the United States, the current situation caused by the unilateral actions of the different countries which have signed up to these agreements.
It is true that the Commission authorised the injection of public capital - only once, as a one-off and subject to strict conditions - with the aim of helping companies to effectively carry out the transition from a regulated market to an open market.
Companies have been able to confront the situation and liberalisation has significantly benefited consumers, although it is true that it has not benefited all consumers in the same way; for example, it has provided less benefit in relation to short-haul business trips where undoubtedly the lowest fares are not usually adequate and cannot be used.
I would like to end by referring to some of the questions that have been raised.
The issue of Gibraltar and the agreements reached recently by the two countries involved do not affect transport.
In this regard, therefore, the situation remains as it was before that bilateral agreement between these two countries of the Union.
On the other hand, the question of slot allocation must be the subject of a Commission proposal since we cannot accept the current situation, in which many slots are lost, not all of them are properly used and, furthermore, let us be honest, there is a black market in them.
We will make a proposal to the effect that slot allocation should be an administrative right granted under licence.
The environment is a key issue in the development of aviation and, of course, efficiency in the consumption of fuel per passenger is improving every day, although it is true that the growth in air transport is exceeding the improvements achieved in efficiency.
Lastly, I would like to make it clear that our primary concern, despite the fact that I have left it to the end, is safety.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I would remind you that the vote on this matter will take place on 17 May 2000.
At the moment, therefore, while Parliament has still not taken a position on administrative reform - which we are observing with great attention and which we all hope will, this time, truly be a great success - I wish to say that it is appropriate at this stage to watch how the Commission is putting these good intentions, these projects to reform the appointments policy, into practice.
To give another example, it cannot be put down to merit that there are 22 A1 or A2 Spaniards and 16 Belgian ones.
It is important that in a procedure which needs to be transparent, merit is easily explicable and comprehensible.
Nobody would say - I certainly would not - that the fact that there are so few A1 or A2 women is due to an assessment of merit.
I must tell my friends that behind every great woman there is a great man, because everybody knows that my wife is worth much more than I am.
It is important that we fulfil the commitment to double the number of female appointments.
The honourable Member is, I know, very clear about the fact that responsibility for employment policies and patterns in the Commission, as a separate institution, lies with the Commission itself.
However, in order to provide useful information to this House and to the wider public, I am glad to respond to the two questions which the honourable Member has put down.
To provide comprehensive detail, that paper also sets out the total number of senior officials from each nationality in the Commission and of the total numbers of all A grade staff of each nationality in the Commission.
A copy of that paper has also been provided to the secretariat-general of this Parliament for information and, naturally, it will be generally available to honourable Members.
In this oral answer, therefore, I will summarise the situation relating to senior appointments as at last Thursday, 27 April.
Since the present Commission took office, six appointments have been made involving promotions to grade A1.
There have been fourteen other transfers at Director-General or Deputy Director-General level, which did not involve promotion in grade, although in four cases relating to Spanish, French, German and British officials, the changes meant advances in responsibility to full Director-General posts.
In summary therefore, a total of 25 promotions to senior appointments have been made since this Commission took office.
These figures are accurate as of 27 April 2000.
As the House will know, in an international and multinational institution like the Commission, it is essential, as the honourable Member said, that the allocation of jobs broadly reflects the diversity of the Union that we serve and uses abilities effectively.
In response to the honourable Member' s second question relating to the rules and criteria applied to senior appointments, I draw the attention of the House to the decisions on the subject which the Commission adopted and published last September and last December.
Against this background the following information may be useful to the House: the guiding principle of the system which the Commission uses is that appointments to all senior posts will be determined on evidence of the merit of candidates, including managerial capacity and other relevant abilities.
Candidates for A1 and A2 jobs are interviewed by a panel of senior officials which has been assisted in the lifetime of this Commission by an advisory external expert with relevant experience in executive selection.
The Commissioner responsible for personnel then formally proposes to the College the candidate who has been agreed upon with the portfolio Commissioner and with the President of the Commission.
I can confirm that all appointments made by this Commission have been in accordance with these rules which are themselves based on Article 29 of the Staff Regulations and that will continue to be the course followed.
To achieve your objectives of moving the Commission towards a world-leading international public service, it is clear that the appointments and capabilities of your team are going to be critical.
You say in your White Paper that there is a real need to raise management skills and create a common management culture across the Commission.
If you ask me, you would be shooting the Commission in the foot and, in my opinion, you would be shooting yourself in the foot more so than the Commission and this is not helpful.
One can enter into a large-scale discussion on the decisions taken today with regard to the nationalities of the people who have been moved, appointed or who have left.
Mr President, in September the Commission adopted some excellent principles which were to be applied with regard to its staffing policy, and particularly in the appointment of senior officials, but let us now examine today' s appointments in the light of those fine principles.
Commissioner Kinnock faithfully made a list of the Commission' s senior appointments and promotions, but, Commissioner, you did not say how many women were nominated for, or promoted to, these posts.
It may be that the decisions you adopted this morning have in some way assuaged the Group' s thirst for knowledge, but this Chamber appears to be unusually empty for a debate on such a major issue.
The new Commission has been in office for only seven months.
The question we really have to ask here is not to the Commission but to the PPE Group as to the motivation behind the question.
I believe that this Commission is very open to taking on board some - I hope all - of Parliament' s concerns and criticisms, because we have criticisms too.
The PSE Group want to engage in a constructive debate because we are interested in the outcome of reform, not in scoring short-term political points that do nothing but damage the European Union.
Turning very quickly to the substance of the questions: in the Commission hearings the European Parliament asked for rotation of A1 and A2 posts and to end national flags on senior jobs.
The Commission has taken positive steps since they came into power, ensuring that appointments are made on the basis of merit.
Finally, I would like to ask the PPE Group to refrain from such politically motivated and unconstructive questions as we have here.
Thank you very much, Mrs Morgan.
Since the Commission delved into the details on 27 April, perhaps we can be told how many men and women there are in category A posts, not in category A posts generally, but broken down by grade, i.e.
Mr President, could I thank the honourable Members in all parts of the House for the constructive contributions they have made in the course of this debate.
Perhaps I could risk some superficiality, because of the time, by trying to answer the specific questions raised.
But to do that comprehensively will require amendments to the Staff Regulations and I am looking forward to the cooperation of Parliament and the Council in gaining the changes in Community legislation which are necessary to facilitate that further development.
I can only say that I welcome the opportunity to provide comprehensive information.
Having such rules would obviously be the best means of ensuring transparency, consistency and practical guidance which would be in the interests of all parties, especially when, as Members have reminded us in the course of the debate, Member States and institutions are increasingly keen to encourage more exchange between national and EU administrations and between the public and private sectors.
Naturally, when I have a proposal to make for new and improved arrangements, I will put them to my colleagues in the Commission and subsequently report them to this House and the other institutions for consideration.
So in legal, procedural and employment policy terms, the use of the panel system for promotion and appointment purposes was not required by the existing law in the case of appointments of that kind.
Of the 25 very senior appointments that have been made by this Commission since last September, 4 have been of women officials.
I would only say that since that is nearly 20% of the total number of appointments, we are on target for this year' s commitment to ensure that we achieve at least a 20% advance in the number of women who are appointed.
It is significant that the island country, the larger island country, secured in the course of these months under this Commission no additional appointments at A1 level by promotion.
The boot-shaped country obtained two such appointments - the boot-shaped country obtained 4 A2 promotions in this period and the big island obtained 5, of which, to the best of my knowledge, none came from Wales.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 17 May 2000.
I have to say that this attitude has also been adopted by the various political groups.
Mr President, I would like to stress that, by approving the Council' s common position on electronic commerce tomorrow, this House will be showing a very great degree of political responsibility of great institutional significance.
Furthermore, by approving this directive, Parliament will be taking a decisive step in favour of the competitiveness of European businesses in the 'on line' economy and will be setting a milestone so that both consumers and companies will be able to operate in the internal market with the same guarantees and the same ease with which they operate in their domestic markets.
The directive ensures that companies and citizens are able to provide and receive information society services throughout the European Union, which will thereby become a genuinely border-free area.
European companies will be able to offer goods, services and information within the Union in accordance with the regulations of the Member State in which they are established and, therefore, in normalised circumstances, without being bound by 14 different sets of legislation.
Mr President, the directive includes - and this is important - all information society services, both business to business and business to user services, such as those which allow electronic operations to take place - interactive telesales of goods and services, on-line 'shops' , for example; services which are offered free, such as those financed through advertising or sponsorship, the on-line press, on-line databases, on-line financial services, on-line professional services - lawyers, doctors or other professionals - leisure services such as video on demand, direct marketing and all services accessed via the Internet.
The common position, therefore, maintains the balance between the various general objectives and the various interests, and we have not therefore tabled any amendments.
Lastly, the development of new technologies and market-related innovations make it essential that we establish a legal framework for the development of commerce, while, as this directive ensures, areas are set aside which are suitable for self-regulation and for the development of specific codes of conduct.
Lastly, several Member States are already legislating in this area and, without this directive, we could see a genuine fragmentation of the internal market.
The legal framework established by this directive will facilitate the adoption of other Community directives, such as the one on copyright, the distance marketing of financial services or the controversial Brussels Convention on jurisdiction, and will clearly help to remove the risk of incompatibility between these initiatives and the principles of the internal market.
Parliament intends to monitor closely the transposition and application of the directive in national legislations, and I have therefore included two recommendations, two reminders to the Commission, which I hope will be approved tomorrow, not within the framework of the directive, but within the framework of the legislative resolution; one on the procedures for the detection and withdrawal of illicit material, and another on the drafting of codes of conduct.
Lastly, Mr President - and with this I will end - it is symbolic that Parliament is approving this directive on the eve of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the declaration by Robert Schuman, in which he stated that Europe would not be created in an instant but through achieving specific objectives which would create genuine solidarity between citizens and businesses.
Fifty years ago, 'specific objectives' referred to the European Coal and Steel Community; today, as this directive points out, they refer to the information society.
Mr President, Commissioner, first let me thank the rapporteur, on behalf also of my political group, for this report and for the strategy she proposes, namely to accept this common position as it stands.
We have to aspire to the establishment of the highest quality of e-businesses in Europe.
E-commerce is in its early stages.
I have some sympathy with Commissioner Bolkestein here today.
We are dealing with the creation of a new medium and therefore one which creates an urgent and acute need for regulation and for common regulation on a grand scale.
In these circumstances we should welcome the chance to bring in an effective regulation on e-commerce.
We have a system that is going to be operated by the users and the point I want to make this evening in now thinking ahead, because we are confident we are going to get this directive through, is to say to the Commission that we need to have a very comprehensive and a very fast feedback from the users about the problems and issues that they are encountering in using this directive.
We want to know where consumers have had problems and feel that their rights are not protected.
I say to both of them, and in particular to representatives of the Council here, we have risen to that challenge and we now expect Member Governments to behave with the same speed to get this legislation transposed.
We encourage the Commission and the Council to get the remaining bits of that legislation to us as quickly as possible because that is what Europe needs.
Commission, Parliament and Council have had ample time to discuss and debate at both first and second reading and, as the rapporteur said, most of Parliament' s views now feature in the Council common position.
This therefore means we need to create a clear and simple, predictable and consistent legal framework for electronic commerce.
Concerns still exist but I believe that Council, Commission and Parliament have struck the right balance between the need to protect public policy and consumers and at the same time promote and support the growth of e-business.
We have in this directive an article which allows us to do that.
Article 21 of the common position provides for a review and we should use the time until then to deepen and further our knowledge on this critical sector of the European economy.
Mr President, Commissioner, e-commerce offers the European Union a unique chance to stimulate economic growth, strengthen the industry' s competitiveness and create new jobs.
The legal framework of the internal market plays a crucial role in this.
The country of origin principle is one of the internal market' s cornerstones.
I would like a reply to this question.
Some of the concerns that have been expressed here tonight, particularly about dealing with illegal content and consumer acceptance, need to be being already pursued by the Commission before we adopt this fully as a European directive.
The European economic and social model, which is based on the social market economy, is quite capable of dealing with world-wide competition, provided that it succeeds in evolving, eliminating all the unnecessary rigid constraints which are responsible for its continuing weakness in some areas.
This potential for growth is our challenge for the future!
However, we are not alone in the world; e-commerce means competition, not only for companies but also for politicians.
The development of information technology provides new opportunities to communicate and to disseminate information simply and cheaply.
At European level, the creation of the European single market and the introduction of the euro are certainly decisive factors in the promotion of electronic business.
However, it also creates a new situation, to which industry and national legislators will have to adjust.
As has been mentioned this evening, e-commerce and online business are developing very rapidly and it is very important that we put in place a legislative framework in Europe within which it can develop and flourish.
Professor MacCormick said that there seems to be a very great deal of agreement about the need to go forward without amending this proposal.
On this occasion I do not believe we are wrong to approach this matter in that way and I hope this Parliament will agree with me with a big majority.
I therefore believe it is fundamental that we bear in mind that the bulk of this success stems from the creation of new companies, the creation of small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Therefore, in the review which is carried out, it is essential that we remember not only the consumers - who in any event must make their own decisions and must use mechanisms for encrypting and protecting their data in accordance with laws and with technology - but also the SMEs, because otherwise there will soon be little electronic commerce in Europe.
It therefore seems essential to make a genuine effort to homogenise the rules of the internal market and, at the same time, work energetically to unify the principles applied on a global level with regard to electronic commerce.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, ladies and gentlemen, I say 'yes' to the directive and 'yes' to the rapporteur' s strategy, for it is thanks to that consistent approach that I too have withdrawn my amendment.
The electronic market is a prime market in terms of growth, employment and future prospects, and not just in Europe.
Let me pick up on two points of detail that are very close to my heart and where I would have liked to see the common position worded more clearly.
As far as I am concerned, the question of e-commerce in medicines and the protection of cultural diversity will be an important issue in the review scheduled in three years' time, which I welcome.
The directive in hand is immensely important as regards the competitiveness of the EU.
Wisdom is not always a characteristic of politicians, be they in the Commission, the Council, or in this Chamber.
Parliament' s approach to this directive and the effect Parliament has had on bringing about the common position could well serve as a model for future cooperation between the institutions.
I would like to thank those Members of this House who, in turn, have thanked the Commission for the work it has done.
I probably do not need to stress the urgency with which clear and flexible legislation is needed for e-commerce within the European Union.
Many in this House, especially the rapporteur, Mrs Palacio, have emphasised this aspect for the benefit of small- and medium-sized businesses.
It will also have a favourable effect on the European industry' s competitive position within the global market and this aspect too has been stressed by a number of Members in this House.
Furthermore, the directive strikes a very precise balance between all private and public interests involved.
Parliament has not tabled any amendments and has thus paved the way for a swift approval.
Parliament tabled a number of amendments at first reading which proved to make a positive contribution to the common position and which elucidated and reinforced the Commission' s original proposal.
Those amendments have been incorporated in the Commission' s amended proposal and subsequently in the common position.
It should also be stressed that Parliament' s rapid approval of this directive without any further amendments was made possible thanks to the excellent cooperation between the rapporteur, the Finnish Presidency and the European Commission.
The Commission will be setting up a website with this goal in mind, thus enabling interactive exchange with all parties, with the intention of taking these remarks on board when this directive is up for review in three years' time.
Needless to say, this point is very closely linked to the provisions of the e-commerce directive which we are debating this evening, provisions which concern the liability of service providers.
The risk is there.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Food aid consignments should gradually be replaced by measures to improve food security in these countries.
I welcome the restrictions in the new convention, for our long-term aim must be to abolish the credit system completely.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schierhuber, you have already mentioned the resolution on Ethiopia.
These rules are now also incorporated in this international food aid agreement.
I am particularly pleased to read in the new Convention that least-developed countries and low-income countries will be given priority when food aid is being allocated.
I am also pleased to see stronger provisions for promoting local agricultural development and local purchases as this also assists local economies and encourages local agriculture.
The institutional Treaty-based arrangements for food aid are, in my view, still somewhat outdated and created with a world in mind where food aid was assumed to be a major feature of development and of humanitarian assistance and relief.
This will mean, and many of us said this in Seattle in the debates, that we would require inter alia a food security clause in any future WTO agreements on agriculture.
The Fiori amendment is preoccupied with Europe' s own interests and is therefore wide of the mark.
One euro a day is enough for survival and offers a chance for the future.
Mr President, I am, of course, in favour of food aid for starving people, despite the commercial operations that are hidden behind this aid and despite the conflicts of interest which divide rich countries on this issue.
Work it out for yourself: European aid comes to around 7 kilos of wheat equivalent per person per year, which is less than twenty grammes per day, and the report is cynical enough to stress the fact that food aid must not discourage local production.
It would require an end to capital' s dictatorship of Europe as well as of Africa, and the only reason why I have voted in favour of this report is in order not to stand in the way of this aid.
The endeavours of our predecessors in the Community institutions succeeded in reducing the total number of undernourished people by over 20% in the space of 30 years.
We must therefore congratulate ourselves on the fact that this issue is still on the agenda of the European Parliament and the countries of the European Union.
The purpose of the new 1999 Food Aid Convention is to contribute to creating food security in the world and to enhance the international community' s ability to respond more effectively to acute food crises and the food requirements of the developing countries.
My seventh point is that the new Food Aid Convention is intended to improve the monitoring of the effectiveness and impact of food aid transactions and cooperation between food aid donors, recipients and others concerned.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Aid to uprooted people in Asia and Latin America The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0065/2000) by Mr Deva, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation (EC) extending Regulation (EC) No 443/97 on operations to aid uprooted people in Asian and Latin American developing countries [COM(1999) 443 - C5-0146/1999 - 1999/0194 (COD)] Mr President, I am indeed privileged today to present this report to Parliament.
All are waiting with bated breadth to hear my speech.
The extension we propose is for one year until 31 December 2000.
The extension of the regulation will enable a further EUR 40 million to be spent until the end of this year.
This regulation came to an end on 31 December 1999.
By extending this regulation today for a further period of one year, we are also giving the Commission time to prepare a new regulation which I hope will be a multiannual one to replace the existing regulation.
This new regulation, to be brought in at a later date, should build on, and take into account, the existing regulation as well the annual report and the evaluation which the Commission has undertaken to present to Parliament and Council in the very near future, and no later than September.
The European Parliament' s original report on the current regulation, the Howitt report, was exemplary in how it was constructed by Parliament.
It had considerable success in improving the existing draft and thus played an important part in supporting and improving the text which was finally adopted.
Notably, the Parliament contributed to a strengthening of the regulation in its reference to environmental concerns, complementary support and cooperation and assisting local host populations, a strong approach for targeting support programmes towards women refugees, particularly those who have been the victims of rape, and a clear provision for the upholding of the "non-refoulement" principle, i.e.
Mr Howitt engaged then in a very positive dialogue with the Irish presidency as well as with the Commission in order to improve on the existing draft.
Therefore the Parliament played a major role in producing this regulation with its report.
Support to uprooted people, refugees, returnees and internally displaced people in Latin America and Asian developing countries has been a feature of the Community budget since 1984.
The UNHCR estimates that there are 4.8 million in Asia and some 88 000 in Latin America.
Of these, the current regulation and the one year extension that our report today is calling for, will continue to help 2.9 million Afghani refugees of whom about 40% are in Pakistan and Iran and the 60% balance in Afghanistan itself.
A total of EUR 24.3 million was given to Afghani refugees with a further EUR 960 000 to Thailand, EUR 6 million to Sri Lanka, EUR 11.8 million to Burma and EUR 1.8 million to Nepal.
We are now presented with a solution by this Parliament, by our institutions in Europe, where we want to and can help people where the problem is.
Mr President, may I begin by stating how bizarre it is that we are debating the extension of a regulation tonight in May 2000 that already expired last December and which, under the Commission' s proposal, would again expire in seven months' time.
As the rapporteur for this Parliament on the original resolution four years ago, I cannot but comment that this represents a failure of political commitment in Europe to aiding five million refugees, some of the poorest of the poor, in Asia and in Latin America.
Nevertheless we are here now, and the Socialist Group supports the rapporteur' s recommendation for adoption of this regulation with the minimum of amendments, already agreed in principle with the Council, in order to allow a fast-track, one-reading approval of the extension, and in reality to allow refugee support projects this year to go ahead rather than be cancelled.
It is no good us debating conflict resolution in the Parliament and then finding that the sole support to assist people when the guns are put down or when the period of immediate humanitarian assistance is at an end is then forgotten altogether.
For example in Afghanistan, which has today broken all world records for refugees with six million people having left the country since 1992, leaving the single largest and longest staying refugee population in the world.
The sort of forced displacement that we have seen in Colombia I have seen too in Chiapas in southern Mexico where the presence of international aid workers is essential for the protection of human rights.
Commissioner, of the EUR 240 million, 40% has been allocated to Latin America which has less than 1% of refugees in the world, while 60% has been granted to Asia which has 40% of the displaced persons.
The most important prerequisite to a long-term solution for the problems outlined is sound coordination of Member State efforts.
It is essential that annual reports are submitted by the Commission to this Parliament and to the Council, as is specified.
The financial framework needs to be introduced in keeping with provisions already agreed to.
These provisions must be strictly adhered to and this change is absolutely necessary.
Without this amendment, the Commission could get away with not having submitted a single evaluation report since the regulation came into force in 1997.
It is common to all the speakers in the Chamber and to others outside that it is an excellent report but, speaking for myself, I would not have expected any less from my honourable friend.
It supports projects implemented by international organisations like the UN and the UNHCR and NGOs and these measures are designed to improve living conditions, not only for returnees but also for the communities into which they will integrate.
The final evaluation report will be submitted to the Parliament by September of this year.
However, concerning the first amendment I would like to stress again that the draft of the activity report has already been made available to the Committee on Development and Cooperation and that official submission will take place next June at the latest.
The Commission agrees with amendments two and three since they reflect the existing framework of interinstitutional cooperation with regard to budgetary discipline and comitology.
We believe however, that given the late contracting of the 1999 programme, which means that some activities are only now getting under way, it would be better to finalise the report, which must be a thorough and comprehensive document, a month or two later, say by September.
However, as you know, the evaluation is already under way and I will make any interim reports available as soon as they are produced.
I hope that Parliament would be willing to agree this approach.
There have been references to the new regulation.
Too often, in my experience of just seven months, we undertake to do things without having first made sure that we have got the resources to carry them through and it is important for us to be honest about what we want to do and how we can achieve it.
I can assure honourable Members that I have taken account of the criticisms and of the aspirations that have been expressed during the course of this debate.
I am old enough and experienced enough in political life to recognise the difference between a standing ovation and a raspberry, or a bronx cheer as the Americans would call it, and I do not wish to sit through another debate about a subject as important as this and hear it dominated by well-meant criticisms.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m.
on the free movement of persons (9748/1999 - C5­0197/2000­1999/0103(AVC)); 2.
on air transport (9749/1999 - C5­0198/2000 - 1999/0104(AVC)); 3.
on the carriage of goods and passengers by rail and road (9750/1999 - C5­0199/2000 - 1999/0105(AVC)); 4.
on scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part (9751/1999 - C5­0200/2000 - 1999/0106(AVC)); 5.
on certain aspects relating to public procurement (9752/1999 - C5­0201/2000 - 1999/0107(AVC)); 6.
on trade in agricultural products (9753/1999 - C5­0202/2000 - 1999/0108(AVC)); 7.
As you are aware, this project was blocked by the Swiss referendum in December 1992, when, albeit by a very narrow majority, the Swiss citizens decided to block the entry of the Swiss Confederation into the European Community.
However, I would also like to point out to the House that the citizens of Switzerland will, once again, be called upon to pronounce judgement on this package of agreements, and, therefore, also on relations with the European Union, in the referendum on 21 May next.
However, I feel it is highly significant that Parliament is voting on and approving the texts - if that is the decision of the House, as it was the largely unanimous decision of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and as it is the desire of all the parliamentary committees which have expressed their opinion - and giving its assent before the Swiss referendum on 21 May.
In my opinion, it is politically significant - and, for this, all thanks go to the Chairman of the Committee on Industry and the staff which have made it possible - that Parliament is going to vote before 21 May, for this will present the Swiss citizens with a sure, well-defined legal framework on which to pronounce judgement.
In this connection, I would just mention, for example, the right of entry, the right of establishment, the opportunity to enter the labour market, the coordination of social security systems, the right of establishment for non-gainfully employed people and students, together with new opportunities for cross-border workers.
We view these agreements, especially the agreement concerning the free movement of persons, as being very important in the context of cooperation between the EU and Switzerland.
Mr President, I too want to thank the rapporteur for his report and congratulate him.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism as a whole is pleased about this agreement because it was well known how very difficult it was to reach a transport agreement which established a fair balance between competition and the environment and which would also produce a satisfactory solution for both sides.
Here we must note, with regard to air transport, that Switzerland is, of course, already a member of numerous international conferences and organisations and has therefore incorporated in its legislation quite a few aspects of what we in the EU regard as the acquis communautaire.
The Transport Committee regards it as a small weakness that the duty-free agreement is not applicable to Switzerland in this case.
Eventually it will replace this system with a road tax, of approximately EUR 200 on average.
But what the Transport Committee considered even more important was that this agreement points the way to a transport policy entirely in line with that of the EU: reducing the burden on the roads while supporting transport by rail.
Mr President, the Social Democrats Group and I myself most emphatically welcome this agreement between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other.
The conclusion of the bilateral negotiations with Switzerland will put the Union' s relations with Switzerland on a new footing, and we all hope that, in a few weeks' time, the Swiss people will give their assent to these agreements.
Unfortunately, European Union governments have paid too little attention to this issue until now.
I hope all this will change in the near future.
First there was the Council of Europe at Strasbourg, which divided in two when France, Germany, Italy and the Benelux Countries formed the European Coal and Steel Community.
The first Agreement on the European Economic Area was offered to the EFTA countries.
So the only countries remaining in the EEA were Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein.
Negotiations are now under way regarding the future accession of twelve countries to the European Union.
It is strange that neither Switzerland nor any of the EEA countries are among them, although they would be the best suited of all to join.
But perhaps these seven agreements are a preparation for that debate and I very much hope that just as Parliament will be approving these seven agreements by a large majority tomorrow - or so I assume - the Swiss people will also approve them by a large majority on 21 May in order to make it clear that Switzerland is part of Europe.
That is something the European Parliament could organise.
Parliament could take the initiative and invite parliamentarians from these countries, so that we can know in advance what input the Swiss can contribute, what problems they may have, what proposals they may have.
Mr President, the attendance in this Chamber shows that there is no dispute about this agreement, that Members want it, and I am sure we will vote for Switzerland and for this agreement by a great majority tomorrow.
After over 50 years of a policy of peace, the German Foreign Minister acting as President of the Council has called on the military to take a decision.
The decision with regard to Austria was taken without any de facto participation by the Commission, without the participation of the Council and, of course, without the participation of Parliament.
In fact, Austria was always seen as the blue-eyed boy in matters of human rights and democracy.
But it has been a useful debate which has reflected the importance of the subject.
We are extremely satisfied that Parliament has given this verbal approval to the seven agreements with Switzerland.
The outcome of those negotiations has been excellent and I am delighted that Parliament has reacted in the way that it has.
They unblock the stalemate in the relations with one of our closest neighbours and our second biggest trading partner.
I am glad that Parliament has found the result of the negotiations to be in general so positive but we have also taken note of some more critical remarks, especially regarding cooperation in the fight against transit fraud, cigarette smuggling and other fiscal crimes, where you want to see our Swiss friends doing much more.
The Commission has repeatedly stated that we see a rapid solution to this problem as the prerequisite for any further agreements in other areas.
I want to assure all honourable Members that we have taken account of the detailed concerns that have been expressed in this useful debate and of the other comments that we have received on these negotiations.
It would be constitutionally indelicate I am sure for me to urge them to vote in one way or the other but I do very much hope that these negotiations which have been conducted in good faith and have led to very satisfactory outcomes will be endorsed by the people of Switzerland.
I am sure that the assent of the European Parliament will be very helpful in this respect in encouraging people in Switzerland to vote on May 21 in what we all think would be the right way.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11a.m.
A civil war and the repercussions of the economic crisis in Russia have been paralysing the country for a long time now.
The Commission deserves praise for having proposed a considerable increase in financial aid to Moldova at the suggestion of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
For example, Moldova relies totally on Russian imports of energy, and is consequently tied by a leash to Russian energy companies.
The EU must do all it can to make it clear to the Duma that withdrawing Russian troops from Moldova would enhance the country' s stability.
That is a maximum annual figure of EUR 200 million from the Guarantee Fund.
This causes problems for possible new loans from the European Union, because this ceiling is inflexible.
The aim should be that Parliament and the Council agree on priorities concerning the use of left-over margins, and that a procedure should be agreed in order to make any changes to these principles.
In the case of macro-financial aid, the Commission appears to have considerable faith in the ability of the international institutions - the IMF and the World Bank - to evaluate the economic situation in whatever countries are concerned.
The role of these institutions is perhaps too important, and the Commission often automatically accepts conditions imposed by others on these loans.
The Russian energy company Gazprom suspended gas supplies because Moldova could not pay its bills in German Marks and US dollars.
The Russian crisis on 17 August 1998 had an enormous effect on Moldova.
Our Group supports the rapporteur' s views.
As has been said here several times, the situation in Moldova is extremely difficult.
These achievements, however, cannot begin to conceal Moldova' s extremely difficult transformation process from ex-Soviet Republic to democratic constitutional state based on a social market economy.
Also, Amendment No 1 tabled by the competent Committee seems to clash with the objective of this specific long-term loan.
The European Union is prepared to invest EUR 15 million, equivalent to SEK 120 million, in a long-term loan.
The desire is for this to be given to Europe' s poorest country, which has a gross national product as low as that of the poorest countries in Africa.
According to the Swedish professor, Per Ronnås, Moldova has seen a more devastating peacetime fall in its standard of living than any other country in modern times.
It is true that today, we are talking about macro-financial assistance, therefore, with clearly defined objectives, which will undoubtedly improve the financial room for manoeuvre so that we can tackle the other difficulties such as those which you have raised during tonight' s debate.
Of the amendments presented in the report, the Commission has no difficulty in accepting Amendments Nos 1 to 4 referring to the final objective of the aid, the need for a coherent approach in our various instruments for Community assistance and the need for social balance in that assistance.
Therefore, the Commission will support these amendments in the Council and I hope they can be taken forward.
Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 8 advocate the establishment of a new committee to control this type of aid.
The creation of specific ad hoc committees would achieve less and would not be as effective as the current model.
The Commission' s concern, as I see it, that it should be provided with figures for the budgetary debate should not cause any difficulty, since every six months, a report is sent to the budgetary authority on the guarantees covered by the general budget along with an annual report on the management of the Guarantee Fund.
That concludes the debate.
