In fact, the 2003 Protocol which entered into force in April this year modifies Title III of the Europol Convention and, particularly, the part relating to the creation of analysis files and the collection, processing, use and deletion of the personal data contained in such files.
As I see it, neither a European civil protection agency nor a European disaster intervention force will be capable of affording effective protection against natural disasters in the European Union.
in writing. - (FR) In voting for the resolution on the natural disasters that have occurred this summer, I wanted to express my solidarity with the families of the victims and those living in the devastated regions.
Over 60 people died this year in the fires in Greece, many families lost everything they owned, and thousands of hectares of forests and olive-groves went up in smoke.
Even though the protection of the population against disasters is the responsibility of every State, we should think about a more effective monitoring of national crisis control policies, and perhaps even about a joint rapid reaction force in the event of such disasters.
in writing. - (PT) I should like to express our deepest sorrow for the victims of the serious forest fires in the spring - particularly in Greece - and our solidarity with their families and with all those affected.
in writing. - (FR) At the end of August, Greece experienced its worst natural disaster ever.
The first partial toll of the huge fires that swept through large areas of the Peloponnese was 63 dead, over 40 000 head of cattle burnt to death, 250 000 olive trees burnt and hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest gone up in smoke.
in writing. - (PT) For the sake of consistency, in view of what we have said in the past and what we expect from the European Solidarity Fund, I shall clearly be voting for this resolution.
I therefore believe it is time to review many of our policies, particularly in the area of forest and woodland management and rural development but not only in that area: we also need to look at our environmental measures, so as to prevent Man from becoming even more destructive than the destructive force of Nature.
in writing. - (FR) Over 60 dead and 184 000 hectares of land gone up in smoke: that is the toll of the fires that swept through Greece at the end of August.
in writing. - (FR) The catastrophic storm in December 1999, floods in Central Europe in 2002, fires in Portugal and Spain in 2004, and now fires in Greece in which people have lost their lives, and also in Romania and Bulgaria: each time there is a strong emotional response, each time Europe sympathises, each time the Commission promises to improve its solidarity and its aid mechanisms.
Right here in this Parliament, we have called in vain for the renewal of the 1992 regulation under which funding would be provided for fire-prevention equipment such as firebreaks, access roads and monitoring systems.
in writing. - I voted for this report on better regulation in the EU.
in writing. - British Conservatives believe it is unfortunate that paragraph three appears vague in seeming to support "any" initiative in the enforcement of Community law.
in writing. - I voted for this report on how EU law- and regulation-making can best be done.
It also notes that the simplification being promoted at European level should be accompanied by appropriate simplification at national level to ensure that the advantages of Community simplification are not undermined by national rules or technical barriers.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution on better regulation.
The End of Vehicle Life Directive that came into force some years ago was estimated by the British Cabinet Office to have cost the economy GBP 400 million (EUR 590 million) while providing environmental and social benefits at a level of GBP 100 million (EUR 150 million) per annum.
We want costs to industry (and society) where there is a large multiplier as to benefits with costs of GBP 100 million providing EUR 500 million in benefits.
in writing. - (SV) We believe that traditional legislation and the open method of coordination can live side-by-side and that both are still needed.
Such soft law instruments, which can legitimately be used as interpretative or preparatory tools for binding legislative acts, should neither be treated as legislation nor be given any norm-setting effectiveness, and it is for each country to decide on their use, in particular where they cast light on the interpretation of national measures adopted to implement them or where they are designed to supplement binding Community provisions.
in writing. - (CS) This report is very important in the context of improving and simplifying the Community's legal environment.
Paragraph 32 refers to harmonisation in the area of taxation, amongst others, and also urges the Commission to push ahead with its proposals concerning a common consolidated corporate tax base.
However, I abstained on the final vote because I firmly believe that the EU is best served by promoting tax competition, not tax harmonisation.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the report on the Single Market Review: tackling barriers and inefficiencies through better implementation and enforcement.
in writing. - (FR) The French Socialists have voted in favour of the Toubon report on the Single Market Review and its adaptation to the twenty-first century, since it refers to important aspects that are sometimes ignored when discussing the completion of the Single Market.
Thus social and territorial cohesion and up-to-date services of general interest go hand in hand with the completion of the Single Market.
One important point in the report is SMEs and facilitating their access to the European internal market as a whole, in view of the vital role that they and the craft industries play in European employment and innovation.
in writing. - (PT) This report has a very strong neoliberal bias, showing once again that the European Parliament is bent on ever more liberalisation, more returns on capital for business and financial groups that are already recording profits of 35% or more.
in writing. - (SV) The June List shares the rapporteur's general position, that the internal market is one of the EU's greatest success stories and that it must be further developed and improved.
We have chosen to vote against Amendment 12/rev tabled by the PPE-DE and Amendment 4 tabled by the PSE, however, because the long-term result of the provision made in those amendments will be that further power is transferred to the European Court of Justice.
On the basis of the above arguments, we have chosen to vote against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - (SV) Even though the report includes some positive provisions I have chosen to vote against it.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by Mr Toubon on the Single Market Review and I support the positive approach of the rapporteur to one of the most important pillars of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report on the Single Market Review which the Commission is working on.
In regard to paragraph 40, part 2, I will vote in favour of this because I have concerns that on a number of issues Member States use EU legislation to 'gold plate' their own national laws, and then blame the EU for any subsequent criticism that may come their way.
I will also vote for paragraph 16, part 2, which states insufficient attention has been given to nuclear energy as a tool with which to tackle climate change in a balanced way and would hope that as a result a discussion could start based on facts and not on fears with regard to the role that nuclear energy can bring to climate change as part of a well balanced energy policy.
in writing. - I voted against this report because amendments favouring tax harmonisation were passed and included in the report.
