This report, however, is not meant to be about our differences on the past – although we certainly have them – but about our common position that the international community must take responsibility for providing, on a massive scale, political, financial and economic support for the people of Afghanistan in shaping a peaceful, democratic and social future for themselves.
I believe that it is precisely because of the situation in Iraq and the unilateralist approach to it that Afghanistan must be one of the international community’s successes, on the basis of the UN Charter and with a pivotal role for the UN.
The international community must, as we do in our report, demand universal human rights, with women’s rights included among them.
Despite these – and other – advances, the situation in Afghanistan is extremely volatile.
The most pressing problems are the non-existent or minimal security in many regions, the potential for conflict inherent in the unbroken military might of warlords, governors and drug traffickers; the disarmament process has ground to a halt, it is proving difficult to demobilise soldiers from the private armies and reintegrate them into society, the Taliban are regrouping in some parts of the south and south-east of the country and there has been a dramatic increase in opium poppy cultivation and in drug trafficking.
I would like to thank all my fellow members of the Committee, and all the groups.
I very much welcome this opportunity to discuss Afghanistan in the week before I go there again and in the run-up to the most challenging goal set in the Bonn Agreement of 2001 – the free and fair election of a democratic government in Afghanistan.
Last year I suggested that Afghanistan was at a critical crossroads and that the international community should redouble its efforts to help President Karzai extend his authority across the country.
The 2003 UN opium poppy survey makes extremely disturbing reading: not only has production risen by 6% from the bumper levels seen in 2002, but cultivation has spread into new areas – it now affects almost 90% of provinces.
But before discussing how the international community is working with the Afghan Government to tackle this, I would like to highlight what Afghanistan has achieved in the last twelve months.
The new currency introduced in late 2002 has remained stable and the Afghan Government has succeeded in increasing the flow of tax revenues to Kabul.
Total European Union commitments in 2003 exceeded EUR 835 million, of which just over EUR 300 million came from the Commission.
In addition, funding from ECHO of EUR 127&#160;million has helped to support the return of 2.5 million refugees to Afghanistan since 2002.
The escalating violence in 2003 has, as the honourable Member said, claimed the lives of aid workers, ISAF troops and many Afghan citizens.
By the end of 2003, EUR 13 million of Commission projects in high-risk areas had been temporarily suspended.
So I strongly welcome Member States' engagement in the Provincial Reconstruction Teams, as well as their continued support to ISAF.
This is exactly why the Commission committed an extra EUR 50 million to support the police in late 2003, and why we will continue to play our part in delivering security, including tackling opium production.
In particular, in 2003 the Commission committed EUR 9 million to promote alternative livelihoods in the Eastern region; EUR 3 million to reinforce border control along the Afghan-Iran border; and EUR 65.5 million to support the police in delivering effective law enforcement across Afghanistan.
In addition, the wider EUR 100 million committed for rural development for 2003-2004 will help to provide long-term legitimate employment for those currently involved in poppy production.
I have asked Commission services to report back on how this will be taken forward following the Drugs Conference a few days ago on 8 and 9 February.
Building a secure Afghanistan will not be achieved overnight.
But we cannot afford to let reconstruction fail in Afghanistan and it is critical that the international community underlines its strong and continued support for President Karzai at the upcoming International Conference.
It is home to over 30 different ethnic groups, among them Pashtoons, Hasara and Tajiks, who co-exist in an equilibrium that has developed over history, but is very unstable.
It is thus clear to us all that Afghanistan’s problems can be resolved only if proposed solutions and aid programmes are in harmony with Afghan culture and history.
As the rapporteur said, the situation of women in Afghanistan is particularly tragic.
If we want to help Afghan women, we have to respect their culture, and, in a country in which women have endured years of oppression, it is the men to whom it has to be explained that, if things are good for their wives and children, then they will be all right too and so society as a whole is better off.
I am clearly delighted with the adoption of a new Constitution for Afghanistan, on 4 January, by the Loya Jirga.
That is why we must support the establishment of future provincial reconstruction teams, PRTs, which should soon be deployed outside Kabul.
These teams will have the task of ensuring security, but also helping in the reconstruction of the country.
Finally, we must support the Afghan Government in its fight against opium growing, with a view to helping it to find effective alternative solutions.
We must be aware that opium production has increased by 6% since 2002, which means that the country is the world's biggest supplier with 77% of world production.
In fact, even though we must take pleasure in the reference to equal treatment in the new Constitution, we all know that the situation of women is fragile and that respect for their fundamental rights will only be achieved with the help of the international community and as a result of intensive information and education campaigns.
The democratic process has begun, but it remains fragile.
It is important that the Commission quickly mobilises the necessary resources to ensure effective financial aid.
It is now our responsibility to do everything to help Afghanistan finally live in peace. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Iraq, the occupation of Afghanistan rests on a solid legal basis.
Afghanistan and Iraq are both countries with a tribal structure where local bosses and ethnic and religious leaders only want to take the biggest slice of the national cake.
In the past, national unity was only guaranteed by means of a dictatorship, and foreigners or occupying forces are not considered as allies unless they serve the interests of a certain clan chief.
But as time passes, their presence is becoming more and more embarrassing, and at any time irritation may turn to hate, with a war of liberation just around the corner.
The Brie report on Afghanistan brings us face to face with this reality by reminding us of certain essential truths, including the need to speed up the pace of reform and reconstruction.
Nevertheless, like our rapporteur I believe that, for the moment, the United Nations, the European Union and NATO have no choice but to continue their efforts to apply great courage to constructing a democratic Afghanistan which respects the rights of men and women.
It is then up to Afghanistan to take control of its own destiny. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his magnificent report on Afghanistan, a country which was in the headlines in autumn 2001.
Afghanistan is a country that needs not just political and social reconstruction but also economic reconstruction.
That is not certain and therefore – as was said on comparing the situation in Afghanistan with that in Iraq just now – at times of war or liberation, in certain countries, the issue of women arises and becomes particularly acute.
So why do we not focus on the issue of women today in Afghanistan?
Commissioner, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has had an exchange of letters with you in relation to the attention paid to the issue of women within the framework of reconstruction and in relation to the proportion of aid earmarked by the European Union for this issue.
Everybody knows that the issue of education, and in particular the education of girls, is essential within the context of women as an emblem of reconstruction.
The second is that we are certainly very happy with the mention of the principle of equality between men and women in the Constitution.
It follows that this issue does not only arise over in Afghanistan, but here as well.
We are happy with what has just happened in Morocco in relation to women's rights, but we are waiting for it to be applied.
In my opinion, it gives a good account of the problems with the new constitution.
The tragedy is, however, that, with this report in our hands and the Commission’s good intentions, we have sadly found ourselves in a position where we may well be full of good intentions and have excellent plans, but neither the European Parliament nor even the European Commission has any influence on the circumstances under which those plans have to be carried out, namely the lack of security.
The Commissioner, too, referred to EUR 30&#160;million of projects that, sadly, cannot be carried out owing to the lack of security.
That is great when it comes to preventing bloodshed in Africa, but it must not be at the expense of less sexy projects, so to speak, such as the difficult development work in Afghanistan.
I should like to summarise the article for you, therefore, and add a question about our strategy in Afghanistan.
In the opinion of Jennings, that huge majority of ordinary Afghans living in areas not actively contested by Taliban remnants have it better today than at any time since 1978.
In Jennings’s view, it would be much more beneficial to the future of Afghanistan as a nation state to construct carefully and gradually from the bottom up, and to achieve political consensus among the regional authorities, which do, after all, sanction a weak central authority.
This would mean an out-and-out defeat for the West in the fight against Islamic terrorism.
Unfortunately, he does not enter into a more in-depth exploration of this fundamental problem regarding Afghanistan’s future as a nation: this issue is subordinated.
After all, no small matter is involved: a fair, sensible international strategy towards a breeding ground for international terrorist networks. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, one reason why Afghanistan is a topic of crucial importance is the need to demonstrate that not only can terrorism with State links be defeated, but that peace can then be won too.
To my mind, this is a very problematic situation and is the reason why it is urgently necessary that we should make every effort to facilitate the establishment of the rule of law and of democracy under a strong and guaranteed central power that also takes account of ethnic differences and of diversity.
The new constitution brings with it both opportunities and problems, for it makes Sharia law possible.
Above all, though, I would like to thank him for the particular attention he has paid to respect for women’s rights, for the vigilance he has asked us to show because of the fragility of what has been gained.
A great deal of progress has indeed been made, at least in the constitutional text: political power exercised by constitutional representatives, representation of women, equality between men and women written in black and white, respect for linguistic diversity considered as an asset and not as a threat and, finally, respect for the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We must respect our own commitments to ensure this democratic transition and it is essential that we are clearly present in order to support all the processes to put in place the necessary structures for civil and economic reform in Afghanistan.
In fact, the climate of insecurity must not destabilise the efforts made, and hence the unquestionable need for a multiannual framework programme which would allow both the structuring of the judicial system and the establishment of specific reconciliation regulations as well as an education system.
It also seems to me to be essential that the whole process of pacification should go hand-in-hand with the process of economic and social reconstruction.
Having said that, we are wary of the slow pace of this reconstruction, since it could jeopardise the stability necessary for the development of the country.
We have made many commitments, we must fulfil them quickly and, above all, understand that the least delay on our part risks being exploited by others to establish their hold on fragile structures, with the help of funds originating from drug trafficking.
We must also work on making the progress made in favour of the population visible so that the people do not sink into despair after 25 years of war.
I should also like to thank the Commissioner and his team for their fine work in the field.
I remind colleagues that in October 2001 the oppression of Afghan women was highlighted globally.
Today, two and a half years on, Amnesty claims that the international community and the Afghan administration have been unable to protect the rights of women.
Rape and sexual violence by members of the occupying armed forces are still widespread.
In the western province of Herat, Taliban-like decrees are still widespread and, as a result of this oppression, more women in Afghanistan are committing suicide now than they were under the Taliban regime.
Human Rights Watch reports many sexual assaults against children.
People caught reading its literature are still in physical danger.
Commissioner Patten said that Afghanistan had reached a crossroads.
I believe, as do Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan, that the government has taken a wrong turn and that the position of women is worse than it was before. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the situation today is the result of continual intervention of one form or another by the Americans and their allies over recent years, both to overturn the popular democratic regime in Afghanistan and impose their mercenary Taliban and to directly invade and occupy Afghanistan militarily on the pretext of fighting terrorism.
The report accepts these interventions and tries to propose solutions without disputing the present situation.
It considers the transfer of the responsibility of the occupying forces to NATO to be positive and proposes new funding which will strengthen its position in the controlled areas, while there is no guarantee whatsoever for the management of these funds for the benefit of the Afghan people, especially women.
The Afghan people, victims of the new order, will be able to find their way if they resist the forces propelling it, either in the form of religious fanaticism or under the cloak of a poor copy of a western-type bourgeois democracy, the military interventions and the occupation.
We must support them in this fight. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly and most importantly, my thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent report, which gives a good overview of the many problems Afghanistan is still having to face.
I should like to give one example, however: the construction of a women’s centre in Kabul on which work had only taken a few months.
The control of education by religious authorities is definitely a very alarming signal and an issue that should be raised.
The UNICEF programme 'Back to School', launched in March 2002, gave rise to great expectations.
More than three million children – one-third of them girls – flooded the classrooms in Afghanistan.
If we fail in that, the future will be very grim. &#160;&#160; Madam President, sadly Afghanistan has been slightly forgotten about in the aftermath of the Iraq war.
A lot of resources will be needed to rebuild the country, and the EU is a large donor; in my view this entitles us to lay down significant political conditions, including demanding progress in human rights, particularly women's rights to education and access to the workforce.
It would save the international community a lot of money to burn it and pay the farmers, instead of spending many billions of dollars fighting the drug trafficking trade. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the situation in Afghanistan is of great interest to this House.
As the report emphasises, the situation since the end of the Taliban regime has improved, but additional efforts need to be made.
For example, as many have said this morning, the situation of women must be highlighted.
Literacy is still unbelievably low, with only a 10% to 15% literacy rate among women.
And even if some of these women go to school they face violence just for attending.
These trends are strongest outside Kabul, in the south and east of the country, where the situation of women is not so well known but is much worse than in the political centre.
The human suffering caused by the drugs problem and its links to crime in our communities concerns us all.
Their work is, however, being sabotaged by the presence of the American forces.
It nonetheless took several months before the New York Times dared to publish the relevant article.
That is how sensitive it is to acknowledge that in Afghanistan, just as in many other places, the American soldiers are gangsters who use every means available to defend American interests but who are completely indifferent to the local population.
The Americans are merely making a bad situation worse. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the report on Afghanistan is to be welcomed in so far as it demonstrates that land of the Hindu Kush, having become a focus of international attention in the aftermath of 11 September 2001, will not again be forgotten, and that the European Union is maintaining its financial and political commitment in order to help achieve stability.
The next thing needed is democratic elections, which will, in this country, be a difficult process.
The militant Taliban have apparently re-established themselves in the south-east, and the Americans are not excluding the possibility of using land troops in a spring offensive.
Although the extension of the ISAF’s operations to the areas outside Kabul is to be welcomed, its mandate is so limited that German troops stationed in Kundus – the safest area, incidentally – are in fact simply onlookers while opium smuggling continues to be one of the country’s main sources of revenue, which, in its turn, has made Afghanistan the world’s largest producer of opium.
The opium trade is in full swing, still helping to maintain the warlords and their armies, and that is one of the main problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first, may I apologise to the House for missing much of this debate, but unfortunately I had to be present at the STOA Panel to vote to try and prevent the suppression of a scientific report at the behest of Europe's chocolate multinationals on inedibles in food.
I was privileged to be part of the delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to Afghanistan in June 2003.
The occupying coalition troops and the United States sit out their days in their fixed and mobile fortresses, when on the streets they exhibit the same heavy-handed style currently displayed in Iraq.
The rest of the country is effectively abandoned to feuding warlords who monopolise revenues and dispense arbitrary justice in their private prisons, making President Karzai at times little more than the United States-backed mayor of Kabul.
After the marines killed three Afghan national army soldiers in a friendly-fire exchange, ISAF stepped in to broker peace between the two groups, ostensibly on the same side.
Yet for many in the Afghan national army, the ISAF and the United States troops are merely all flowers from the same garden.
In the south the main targets for the remnants of the Taliban are foreigners, but without reconstruction work, the temptation for the local population is to see the situation as no better, if not worse, than under the Taliban.
Human rights is important, particularly the situation of women.
While the international community works to prevent drug abuse, Afghanistan’s illegal opium production discourages individual governments in the surrounding area from contributing financially to the reconstruction of the country.
According to an investigation by the UN body for drugs control and crime prevention, Afghanistan was responsible in 2003 for three quarters or 75% of the world’s total production of illegal opium.
The second point concerns the position of women.
The regime introduced a gender apartheid that totally denied women’s identity.
The country’s authorities, the international community and the EU must therefore make every possible effort to change this view.
Another first that I now count is the fact that I was sitting having tea with some of the biggest drug dealers and drug producers in the world.
The total value of the poppy crop at the farm gate in Afghanistan is estimated at EUR 700&#160;million.
We need an alternative development approach for Afghanistan which integrates EU drug policy into its development policy.
We have to offer the rural population economically viable and steady means of earning an income.
A similar exercise could be done for the poppy crop in Afghanistan, and I would like the honourable Member to take this on board seriously. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We have designed a coherent strategy maximising the use of all our instruments to promote respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights in a region that poses formidable challenges in this respect.
Crucially, it invites our Mediterranean partners to develop nationally owned human rights strategies.
Yet, as we all know, the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of human rights and the rule of law rests with governments.
Any strategy that ignores this fact is doomed to failure.
No real progress will be achieved without a freely functioning, vibrant civil society.
In addition, a substantial proportion of the extra EUR 17.5 million, which this House voted to the European Initiative at the end of last year, will be used to reinforce support to grass roots organisations working to defend human rights and democratisation in this part of the world.
The communication has already produced encouraging results, in Morocco and Jordan in particular.
The full support of the European Parliament will be crucial to the success of this, which is, I repeat, a ground-breaking approach, in one of the most difficult regions of the world with respect to human rights and democracy.
Parliament's resolution also takes up aspects of the management of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights and Parliament’s role in the shaping of the initiative.
In this context, I would like to recall that we have come a very long way since 1994.
Five years later in 1999, implementation of these budget lines was put on a firm legal basis with two regulations, one for developing countries and one for ‘other countries’ – Wider Europe, MEDA, the Balkans and others.
The European Parliament was fully involved in the making of these regulations.
The Commission has always kept Parliament fully informed of our thinking.
Our communication of May 2001 on the European Union’s role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries, which proposed a more strategic approach for the Initiative, was welcomed and fully supported by the European Parliament.
But I am fully committed, and my services are ready, to continue the fruitful dialogue we have had so far on all issues concerning human rights and democratisation, including the strategy and objectives of our assistance to third countries.
The work we are doing in the field of democratisation and human rights in the wider Middle East is crucial not only to the sustainable economic and political development of countries in that region, but also to the relationship between Europe and the Islamic world, particularly those parts of the Islamic world which are closer to our own geographical borders.
I recently read the statements by a very distinguished American public official about what was required in order to develop a more stable, secure and plural region in the Middle East.
It stands to reason that we should listen very carefully to their views on the institutional arrangements that we need to put in place and on how we can sharpen up our performance and ensure that what we do is better focused and more effective throughout the region.
As the Commissioner has said, this is about the integration of the Barcelona process with the ‘Wider Europe’ strategy and the issues related to the funding of MEDA and other programmes.
These, I believe, must also include human rights and democracy, for lasting peace can come into being only if the state, civil society, the political forces and parties guarantee, in the long term, deep roots for democracy and the rule of law, which always provides the greatest certainty of peaceful development.
This is of enormous significance for us, not only because of human rights, which should be guaranteed by other means, but also because stabilising regions like this on the basis of democracy and the rule of law is the best security policy we can pursue in our own interests; we should indeed ensure that stability prevails there in such a way that people have a future and do not fall prey to fundamentalism, as they would otherwise be justified in doing.
It strikes me as important that – as was previously the case in Central and Eastern Europe – such democracy programmes should increasingly draw on the experience of the European Parliament and of its MEPs, not only by consulting them, but also by involving them in the decision-making process.
I believe that many agreements should be linked to the establishment of human rights, and that much funding should be linked to the development of democracy, in order thereby to establish checks and balances that make possible the practical application of democracy and human rights, on which stability depends, and saves them from being merely fine-sounding words. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Patten, it is important that the issue of human rights and democracy is once again brought to the centre of the debate on relations between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries.
Almost ten years on from the Barcelona process we note that there is still a serious lack of democracy in these countries, which has also been pointed out in numerous United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reports.
Indeed, we must ask ourselves if the policy that we have implemented to date and, above all, the instruments put forward in this area, were adequate given the ambitious objectives of the Barcelona strategy.
I am, however, asking a more complex question: are bilateral agreements adequate instruments for promoting the development of human rights?
Nevertheless, I would like this instrument to be more consistent with the rest of our policies, otherwise there is a risk that it will be a way to legitimise the other policies, which are essentially .
For example, Commissioner, why not try, with these countries, to have a multilateral convention on human rights, which is also based on institutions that are able to guarantee these rights?
Therefore, as regards financial procedures, should the Commission not have instruments that are adapted to implementing these objectives? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, democracy and human rights in Mediterranean countries are still in a wretched state, the main cause being that the authorities never relinquish power and do not even want to share it.
The Commission communication, with its ten priorities, is truly excellent.
Many of the proposed actions are in line with the specific suggestions I made in my report on human rights last year.
The intentions and approach are good, but, of course, results are by no means guaranteed.
Many regimes say that security is more important than democracy.
It is precisely a lack of democracy that makes the situation hopeless and dangerous.
Anyone striving for security and prosperity must first safeguard democracy and human rights.
I should like to hear answers from the Commissioner to my questions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, what is making things so very complicated, I believe, is the fact that we can never be sure of anything.
For my part, I have just read the very recent report of the IFRM which was presented yesterday and which demonstrates the extent to which 11 September has had devastating effects in these countries, taking the form of many arbitrary imprisonments all over the place, which clearly represent a genuine violation of respect for human rights.
The situation in that region remains volatile.
Indeed, aid must not be misused for further tolerating conditions or for keeping regimes in power that have been violating human rights for years.
I thank the Commissioner, whose work as Governor of Hong Kong ensured the continuation of the democratic life of that territory, which I hope will spark changes in the wider China.
It is my pleasure to be rapporteur on the communication 'Reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners'.
We welcome the communication and its ten points for action.
Since that time, the MEDA process has taken on a new lease of life, with the agreements in December to establish the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forum.
I am also rapporteur on the two regulations dealing with the continuation of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights in 2005 and 2006.
While endorsing the communication on 'Reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners', we are also examining these two regulations.
The Commissioner's references to the UNDP report underline the importance attached to it by the Commission, but unfortunately the Commission needs to put its money where its mouth is.
We need to examine very closely the way in which the European Union is funding programmes in this region.
But of this, only EUR 7 million is currently budgeted through the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
Reference has been made in this House this morning to forthcoming elections in Algeria and Tunisia, where very little money is getting through to the NGOs and activists who are looking for a free media and the development of human rights.
This debate will continue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are in favour of and support the Commission's communication on reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation in the southern and eastern Mediterranean.
As the Commissioner has said quite rightly, there is a strategy which will soon be ten years old – that of the Barcelona process – and all we have to do is remember that, since Barcelona is an Olympic city, the entrance to the Commission's offices should display the motto '' for the development of our Euro-Mediterranean policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, what is termed the Barcelona process certainly has all the sympathy of men and women of good will.
The capital of the Catalan nation was indeed worthy of being the place where a policy aimed at building bridges across the Mediterranean was launched.
I must mention here in passing the memory of two illustrious Catalans who anticipated this policy each in their own way in the Middle Ages: Raymond&#160;Lull and Anselme Turmeda.
I welcome the intelligent and understanding effort implemented by this policy, and in particular in the documents which are the subject of our debate.
The criminal war waged by the United States against Iraq was subject to the active or passive complicity of the majority of Member States of the enlarged Union.
If we are not careful, the obsession with security and the hijacking of the war against terror for partisan ends will undermine this policy, and many others, despite all the intelligence and good will of those who will try to implement it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we want to implement a policy in this area, it is important to know what is happening in the Mediterranean and in the Arab world.
From this point of view, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must stop being excessively prudent because our actions must have credibility.
Well, it is important because of the format of the Conference: governments and non-governmental actors have for the first time found themselves on an equal footing in discussing and wrangling, but also in creating a final statement that, in my opinion, creates the requirements for a consultation process, which perhaps our US friends are less prone to emphasise and less inclined towards.
I believe that this merits a very solid follow-up. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I can sympathise a little with Commissioner Patten who has to listen to one speech after another without being able to make comments after any of the speakers.
The second thing the Commissioner said concerned the links between our financial support and behaviour at what he called grass roots level, that is to say how matters appear out in the cities, towns and villages when it comes to observing human rights.
As the Commissioner said, our relations with the Islamic world are an extremely sensitive area, both internally in the European Union and in our various Member States.
I mean that religion and freedom of religion are of fundamental significance for the development of human rights and, ultimately, of democracy.
I believe that the types of solutions that exist in certain countries, for example in Iran where an Islamicist Council of Guardians says who may stand in elections and who may not, is completely unreasonable.
The value of being free to conduct missionary work, irrespective of whether the country concerned is predominantly Christian, Muslim or Jewish, was also emphasised.
I believe that the conversation about the significance of religion for the good society and for combating the misuse of religion itself to issue threats, perpetrate violence and oppression and justify terrorism and discrimination against people is an important and fundamental part of our relations with the Islamic Mediterranean countries.
Let the dialogue about religion and the good use of religion in the proper sense of the word be an important part of our relations with countries around the Mediterranean. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the importance attached by the European Parliament to respect for and the safeguarding of democracy and human rights everywhere and always is a known fact and is non-negotiable.
As a general principle, it has become our prime concern to demand the same respect and the same application from all our partners, without wrongful interpretation, differentiation or a selective approach.
The linking of European financial aid with compliance with absolute respect for the above rights is also uniform for everyone, everywhere.
Deepening political dialogue on issues of democracy and respect for human rights at all levels certainly helps to consolidate our bilateral relations and transactions and to further deepen them.
The exchange of information, knowledge and experience by all the partners, as the motion comments, helps to further serve the desired approach on the basis of principles and rules which are common to and respected by everyone.
This political dialogue will help enormously to resolve possible problems or misunderstandings and to support the procedure of rapprochement and cooperation, which will serve stability and the peaceful development and coexistence of the entire Mediterranean area.
Let us hope that those developments in the Israeli-Palestinian dispute, which are still obstructing an unimpeded approach, come to an end as quickly as possible, without walls and divisions, for the good of the entire area and its inhabitants. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is a fact that the countries of the south-eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East as a whole are an important field of action for the foreign relations of the European Union and the present Commission communication confirms this.
It is true that women in Mediterranean and Arab countries, despite a certain improvement in conditions over recent years, continue to be the victims of sexual discrimination and inequality.
Worst of all, however, is that women are the main victims of religious and political fundamentalism, ultra-conservatism and autocratic regimes which base their power to a large degree on controlling the sexual conduct of women, their way of life, their reproductive functions and even the way they dress.
However, I should like to respond to one or two questions from what has been an important and useful debate.
The fairest diplomatic answer is that the ideas have been received rather cautiously in some countries but much more positively in others – Jordan and Morocco spring to mind.
Whatever the response, the ideas that we have put forward are now a central part of the debate, a central part of the dialogue with these countries.
We are talking about setting aside part of our MEDA funds each year and allocating them to those countries which enter into specific partnerships with us to develop democracy and human rights.
That is an important shift of emphasis and an important way of trying to use our development assistance and cooperation to promote political objectives which we all know are crucial, not only to the stability and wellbeing of societies, but also to their long-term economic development.
I hope that we do not lose sight of the fact that this is a long-term process and I hope that, as the honourable Member said late in the debate, that we do not lose sight of the relevance of the Middle East dispute, of the relationship between Israel and Palestine, to the discussion about democracy in the wider region, because at the moment undoubtedly some in the Arab world doubt our credentials and goodwill because they do not think we are doing enough to resolve the problems of Palestine.
We recognise the experience and the wisdom of Parliament and we are sure that together Parliament, Commission and Council will be able to frame a policy which will not only continue to command the attention of the whole House, but will actually lead to the sort of beneficial consequences that we wish to see. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Patten, for your contribution and your efforts in a climate which has not always been very easy.
The debate is closed.
A high-quality, wide-ranging debate must be held regarding audiovisual policy at European level, before decisions can be made regarding the bases of any future programme.
These form the Community support mechanism for the audiovisual sector and replace the MEDIA I and MEDIA II programmes, which were launched, respectively, in 1991 and 1996.
I also fully support the proposal that the European Maritime Safety Agency should be involved in recognition of certificates of competency for seafarers and hope that the Agency will prioritise this particular area with a view to ensuring greater safety for workers and citizens.
Most importantly, it assigns complementary tasks to the Agency to support the Commission’s activities in the fight against terrorist acts on ships and port facilities, in training seafarers and in the fight against marine pollution.
There is already a legislative framework in place that establishes a system of cooperation in the area of sea pollution, and a Community mechanism designed to encourage closer cooperation in emergency interventions in the field of civil protection.
The European Maritime Safety Agency must have the competences and the means to prevent and combat pollution caused by ships and other vessels.
I have therefore voted in favour of the Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado report.
I believe that in response to the accident involving the there is a clear need to ensure that full and swift payments can be made to victims of future oil spills, notwithstanding our obligation to do everything possible to prevent such incidents from happening in the future.
Additional funds should allow for effective, quick and fair compensation for victims of future oil spills.
This is why the Member States must sign or ratify the protocol on this fund as quickly as possible.
This proposal arose following the Council’s decision authorising Member States to sign or ratify, in the interest of the European Community, the Protocol of 2003 to the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage, 1992.
The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) protocol increases the funding available to compensate the victims of oil spills.
I share his opinion that maximum levels of compensation in this fund are insufficient to guarantee adequate protection for victims of any future large-scale oil spill.
The protocol establishes an International Fund for Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage, 1992, to ensure that victims of damage caused by oil spills from tankers will be paid compensation swiftly and in full.
Time and time again workers and pensioners have lost out in the wake of corporate scandals so none of us can be in any doubt that there is an urgent need to improve corporate governance and strengthen our defences against corporate malpractice.
Good company law and good corporate governance are essential to the job security of all employees and to the protect the future of members of company pension schemes.
The financial services industry must certainly put its house in order and ensure ethical conduct and diligence to protect the jobs and savings of millions of people.
It is outrageous that no warning signals were sounded while Parmalat funds were being embezzled. &#160;&#160; .– The Parmalat company has been presented to us as an example of the success of liberal globalisation.
Since 1974, it had multiplied its subsidiaries and created shell companies in tax havens.
The system lasted until 11 November 2003, when the auditors expressed doubts about a EUR 500 million investment in the Cayman Islands.
Parmalat – like Enron, Tyco, World Com or Ahold – is nothing but a prototype for this rogue capitalism.
For 30 years, Parmalat’s bosses have received public subsidies, disguised their accounts and announced fictitious profits.
Furthermore, employees and their organisations must have the means for effective control of accounts.
Finally, all tax havens in the EU (San Marino, Monaco, Luxembourg, and others) must be eliminated. &#160;&#160; . – At the end of yesterday’s debate, Commissioner&#160;Bolkestein neglected the two key problems: legal tax havens and the impact of fraud on employees and small savers.
What I now find the most worrying is that European countries are offering companies the opportunity of bypassing rules laid down by other countries.
I had always thought that the problems of banking secrecy, letter-box companies and tax havens were confined to Luxembourg, Austria and the Swiss cantons Zug and Schwyz, but it now emerges that thousands of billions of Parmalat’s property was kept in the Netherlands with the help of 181 trust offices, five private companies and one foundation.
I agree with the rapporteur that in this field it is preferable for the provisions concerned to be directly applicable in all Member States instead of being subjected to the uncertainties stemming from the transposition of a directive.
That is why we have voted in favour of this report.
More than two years on, it is clear that the war did not solve the underlying problems of the Afghan people, nor did it help to support the country’s move towards democracy.
As the report says, ‘the deteriorating security situation is the main threat to the population of Afghanistan and to the efforts of Afghan and international NGOs supporting reconstruction, rehabilitation and development initiatives and to the peace process in general’.
Events today in Afghanistan, and indeed in Iraq, clearly demonstrate the complete mistake of going to war.
The Bush Administration should be condemned for the appalling situation in these countries and for the terrible suffering of the majority of the population. &#160;&#160; . – There is a great difference between the reality within Afghanistan and the way it is regarded by outsiders.
Although Tajiks, Uzbeks and Baluchis also live in neighbouring countries, the issue of whether their languages should be prohibited within Afghanistan is being discussed as part of the establishment of the Afghan constitution.
The outside world is imposing a supreme president and a central army on the country with the task of achieving unity, whereas, in practice, the President and the army do not have any power outside the capital.
This kind of illusion of unity will induce the outside world to retain a permanent military presence in the struggle against peoples who have no desire for such unity.
I agree with the rapporteur that concern must be expressed with regard to the difficult situation facing women in Afghanistan.
It is true that some progress has been made, such as the ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women by the Afghan Transitional Authority (ATA) and the reference to equal treatment for women and men in the new constitution adopted on 4 January.
It is essential that the ATA condemn consistently, publicly and unequivocally all acts of violence perpetrated against women and children.
First of all, we condemn the lack of transparency, and also of respect, towards civil society and Parliament.
The Competition DG has produced a package on financial compensations, which I only know about through journalists, and essentially these texts completely ignore the advice and requests of our Parliament.
Therefore, in the White Paper, which it must publish before April, the Commission must give a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to this demand for a legislative act.
The resolution we adopted on 14 January of this year states that 'the task at Community level for services of general interest is to guarantee their exercise within the internal market and, notably, to ensure that competition rules are compatible with public service obligations'.
It is therefore entitled to prepare a decision and a framework, but these executive acts depend, as we all know, on the interpretation of rules.
I would now like to draw your attention to the substance of the Monti proposals, which contradict our resolution.
So I want at the outset to state as clearly as I can that the Commission does not intend to adopt any final package before drawing political conclusions from the broad public consultation on the Green Paper on services of general interest.
The public consultation has clearly confirmed the need to increase legal certainty and clarity with regard to the application of the state aid rules in this area.
In conclusion, I re-emphasise that the Commission will not draw any definitive conclusions in the area of services of general economic interest before it has presented its conclusions on the consultation on the Green Paper, which it intends to submit during the month of April, which is exactly what Parliament has requested. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start at the end.
We have called upon the Commission to present, by April at the latest – and we now hear that it will take all the time it has been given – a follow-up document, in which it will show what it has learned from the consultations on the Green Paper and make it clear where it stands on the possibility of a legal framework and what it proposes to do next.
That is why the way we handle services of general interest is closely tied in with public confidence in our policies on competition and the internal market and in Europe’s competences – and that is why we, the public’s representatives in the citizens’ parliament, who have to deal with this permanent antithesis on a daily basis, want to be involved in deciding and determining what is to be done.
My next point is that it is important that the principle of subsidiarity be maintained in view of the differences involved – differences in definition from one Member State to another, differences in geographical situations, differences in the problems of demographics and those affecting social and health policy.
The fact is that we need services of general interest only where the market is unable to guarantee these services on a universal basis, at affordable prices and to a high standard of quality. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I have to admit that I prefer to discuss foreign policy with you, because that is where your heart lies.
I believe it is also supported by the majority of the European population, who see services of general interest as something different from the other goods and services that are on offer.
We can still discuss the precise details of the legal framework, but there must be a legal framework that takes account of the special nature of services of general interest and the needs they are designed to satisfy.
I have heard, for example, that no fewer than 28 companies are operating on bus routes in the city of Manchester following deregulation.
In all other respects, just as the clamour was once for freedom of thought, I would now appeal for freedom of structure, for the right of local and regional communities and authorities, which know best how to provide the services that people actually need, to structure public services as they see fit.
The Commission should commit itself to this approach. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have on a number of occasions expressed our disagreement with the Commission’s strategy concerning services of general interest.
Firstly, however, the Commission must refrain from implementing measures that, in practical terms, may result in further erosion of quality public services in the various countries of the EU. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that in this debate our problem is not so much to reopen all the discussions we have held time and time again on the meaning and the nature of services of general interest, but to deal with the issue of security and the framework, and more precisely that of the democratic security and the democratic framework, within the context of the debate on services of general interest.
Moreover, the concept of a legal framework which respects subsidiarity, which was invented by the European Parliament, is even more ambiguous, or even contradictory, because real subsidiarity in this matter would consist in admitting that public services, which are actually essential to life in our societies, must be defined, organised and managed at the closest possible level to the public within the national framework.
The corollary to this rule is that public service obligations should take priority over Community competition rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I hear the discussion in this Chamber, I start to wonder what we are actually debating.
For two years, Parliament has been demanding more legal clarity, and Commissioner Monti wants to create legal clarity on key issues.
The fact is, Mr&#160;Herzog, that we spent months discussing that, and you did not obtain a majority for your proposals.
All I can say is that you either have no idea what Mr Monti is trying to do or you are seeking to overturn your defeat of four weeks ago.
He is acting to ensure that subsidiarity is strengthened, and he is acting to ensure that legal clarity will prevail in important areas by the end of the current legislative term of the European Parliament.
I can only heartily welcome the fact that greater legal clarity will finally prevail in these matters before the end of this parliamentary term. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for straying away from your usual subjects in order to take an interest in the problem of services of general interest, which is so important to the citizens of Europe.
Do people realise, however, that in other countries, both Member States and third countries, the evidence may show that there are national public services which have operated very efficiently up to now?
It is this that is the subject of our discussions among ourselves, but it should also be the subject of a discussion between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, on a sector-by-sector basis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating Commissioner Monti, because I believe he is looking after the rights of consumers and of the citizens of Europe, and they are entitled to obtain a decent quality of service and, more importantly, to obtain it at a reasonable price.
In Sweden, for example, we have seen that many towns and cities, often administered by one and the same political party, compete with each other in a bid to provide the best possible services and that a town or municipal administration offering the best deal to the public, to the consumer, is awarded the franchise to provide its services in other towns and cities too.
If, for example, a railway service is being put out to tender, a public authority can say that there will be three people at six in the morning, twelve at ten o’clock in the morning and three again at midnight.
There are 18 million businesses here that can bid for a franchise to provide public services for the benefit of consumers.
The small and medium-sized businesses pay 80% of total tax revenue; in other words, they ultimately provide the money that enables us to afford these social services in the general public interest.
What we want is the best service for our citizens.
That can only be provided in the framework of fair competition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to take this opportunity to say that I share the opinion that the market and free competition are important values.
Mr Patten, you are a diplomat and you know the meaning of words.
There will be greater certainty, but in the final analysis there will be fewer possibilities for funding public services.
All services of general economic interest are social in nature.
It is a very real issue and one that will continue to be of serious moment for years to come.
Those 63 people did not become names under the present regulatory regime, but in the pre-2001 period.
Those 63, the petitioners to this Parliament, and thousands of other names from many European countries have one simple question, the question put in our resolution of last September and reiterated today: did the United Kingdom, between 1978 and 2001 implement, fully and correctly, Directive 73/239/EEC relating to Lloyd's?
The dossier presented to Parliament in December in response to our resolution of September 2003 is totally inadequate and conspicuously fails to offer any answer to that central question.
Commissioner Bolkestein, who launched two sets of infringement proceedings against the UK Government over the regulation of Lloyd's, regularly tells us that his responsibility is only to bring a Member State into compliance.
Allow me to remind the Commission that it has a Treaty obligation, under Article 197, to answer questions posed by Parliament.
The Commission has a Treaty responsibility to ensure that EU rules and directives are properly respected.
Policy-holders of Lloyd's have a right and need to know whether the solvency rules were being respected.
People who invested in Lloyd's names also have that right.
After issuing a supplementary letter of formal notice in January 2003, whose purpose was to clarify the concrete functioning of the new regime, the Commission concluded in October 2003 that all aspects of the Lloyd's regime under examination now comply with the requirements of the relevant European Union insurance directives.
As regards the regime applicable to Lloyd's prior to the entry into force of the Financial Services and Markets Act, the Commission has consistently maintained, in full accordance with ECJ case law, that the objective of infringement proceedings under European Union law is to establish or restore the compatibility of existing national law with European Union law and to rule on the possible past incompatibility of national law, which has been in the meantime brought into compliance with European law.
I therefore believe that the Commission, at this time, has fully complied with its obligations and we in the European Parliament cannot demand that it act in any other way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his very careful reply, which he relates very much to this particular question, the issue of Lloyd's.
However, if it takes a Member State over 20 years to implement a directive, and a Member State can carry on without doing that for such a long period of time, then common sense tells us that something is not right.
Parliamentarians do not have to refer to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 in order to gain access to documents.
Mr Perry voted for the suppression of a public document.
Representatives of the two largest groups and of one of the other groups in this House recently paid separate visits to Iran.
I can see that the groups are largely in agreement in their assessments of the current situation and in the political conclusions they have drawn.
Sadly, we are compelled to note that the process of democratisation has received a severe setback, in that this forthcoming election will be less democratic than the previous one.
I have to ask the Commission whether, in view of this setback, it simply plans to turn its attention to other matters.
We must not only talk to those in the reformist camp; it is also particularly important that we seek dialogue – and it will be a difficult dialogue – with those who exercise power in the judiciary and in the Council of Guardians and make it clear to them that, if they continue to pursue their present policies, they will make poor use of their country’s potential, obstruct progress towards a Trade and Cooperation Agreement with the EU and, above all, thwart the hopes and expectations of the Iranian people.
That is why I make this appeal to those who hold power in Iran: change; turn about, before it is too late.
Perhaps you can indeed put the domestic dialogue back on track, so as to foster the growth of democracy in Iran. &#160;&#160; – The ayatollahs on the Council of Guardians are doing everything they can to hold on to their religious, political and economic power.
Whilst large sectors of society, young people in particular, want modernisation and freedom, the hard core in power is clinging to medieval ideas and repressive practices.
The younger generation constitutes the vast majority of the population in Iran.
The conflict between reformers and conservative clergymen is increasingly coming to a head.
The human rights and democratic situation in Iran is still extremely worrying.
Iran is a potentially rich country with an ancient civilisation, and has the potential to play an extremely important, constructive role in the region.
It will not become a new civilisation, however, whilst the ayatollahs continue to abuse their unrestricted power, but will instead be doomed to remain an international pariah. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, today in Iran the conflict between conservatives and reformists threatens once again to throw an entire nation of this great Middle East into obscurantism and fundamentalism, into a pernicious and despairing arbitrariness.
More than ever, therefore, and certainly more than in the past, our Community institutions must make their presence and influence felt among the conflicting forces in the Iranian Parliament, in President Khatami’s Participation Front and in Ayatollah Khamenei’s Guardian Council, in order to defend the universality of the values of the rule of law, democracy and human rights.
These fundamentals should serve as a basis for negotiations and exchanges between the two factions, without which there is a risk of ending up with a State in which there is no rule of law, and to push that State or to push the cohesion of Iranian society and the geopolitics of this tormented region towards even worse scenarios.
The time has come to defuse the Council of Guardian’s attempts to disqualify reformist parliamentary candidates in the forthcoming general elections.
The creation of a special parliamentary delegation to Iran proves this, the signing of the additional protocol on safety controls for nuclear materials confirms it, and the preliminary discussions between the European Union and Iran on human rights should convince us of it.
These first signs must support and encourage the European Union’s approach to the Iranian authorities with a view to sending, right now, a party of observers to examine the electoral process and cooperating, right now, in judicial reforms and in the control of drug trafficking.
At the present time, history is being made in Iran, and Brussels has learned enough from Munich in the past to be aware that it cannot refuse to make its voice heard now in Tehran. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Europe and the United States of America have long been striving to achieve considerable influence over developments in Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan.
Muslim fundamentalists in Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq owed their survival not so long ago to support from the West against others.
Twenty-five years ago, a popular uprising put an end to a regime that had always sought military and economic cooperation with the West.
The outside world has never trusted the new authorities.
Following a few years of great enthusiasm, social policy and democratic experiments, this regime, too, incurred hatred within the country.
The United States was hesitant, but seemed to be doing the same after Iran suffered the earthquake in Bam and showed readiness to have its nuclear projects inspected.
My group hopes that Europe will learn from this and take the side of the Iranian people and their resistance organisations from now on. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a clear signal from Tehran is always welcome, and yesterday President&#160;Khatami gave one personally.
I think that this is spot on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when a delegation from our parliamentary group recently visited Iran, we were actually surprised at the degree of discussion that took place there as well as at the willingness to engage in dialogue which was shown by the many young women who constitute the majority of the student population in Iran.
That, however, is precisely what the Council of Guardians wants to prevent.
I am also thinking of the situation in the Middle East, where we need Iranian support.
These are very high numbers in a country with a population of 60 million.
This is why I am particularly grateful that the head of the Supreme National Security Council has made an offer to the European Union to work with him and his organisation to stop this flow of drugs from the war lords in Afghanistan.
Similarly, the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, the promotion of cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises in Iran and those in the European Union, is a means of strengthening democracy.
I believe that the business contacts in this domain could point the way to more fruitful cooperation in the domain of dialogue and democracy.
Nonetheless, it would appear that above President Khatami and the democratically elected representatives of the people stands the all powerful Revolutionary Council, which is endeavouring to deprive the parliament which will come out of the elections on 20 February of any democratic voice or powers of reform.
It is a fact that Iran, a country with a long history and an important geopolitical position, can play a strategic role in the stability of the area, especially in relation to Iraq and Afghanistan.
It should be crystal clear that President Khatami’s decision to call a general election in February has crushed any hope of his intending to implement reforms in Iran.
The EU should now support those forces that really want to see a pluralist and democratic Iran.
As a first step, the EU should ensure that members of the Mujahedin are not handed over to Iran and certain death, and it should, as quickly as possible, see to it that they are removed from the EU’s list of terrorists and support their demand for a referendum in Iran. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, anyone with an interest in democracy is seriously concerned about the recent political developments in Iran.
The constant flagrant undermining of the reform-minded forces constitutes a threat to a new revolutionary movement.
Most urgently, the Mujahedin currently in Iraq should be removed from the terrorist list and should not be extradited to Iran.
It is through dialogue with those who genuinely want democracy, with secular forces, that we will be able to see the situation change towards democracy in this most important of countries, as all those here recognise. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Islamic Council of Guardians operates as an unelected organisation consisting of Islamic theologians whose task it is, in accordance with Islamic principles, to preserve the heritage of the revolution of 25 years ago.
The issue is that of whether this Council of Guardians does not instead discredit religion in itself, the role of priests and theologians in society and what is, in this case, the entirely dominant religion, namely Shi’ite Islam.
These are the consequences for the Islamic revolution in Iran of the activities of the Council of Guardians, of the legislation they have promoted and of other legislation they have prevented.
It is completely unacceptable for theologians to be able to prohibit people from both voting and standing as candidates. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Iran makes us face up to our own contradictions.
Someone said during the debate that we should talk to the judges and others: I have.
I have to say – and I hope this does not sound too much like the leader of a Boy Scout troop – that you cannot halt the democratic process in Iran indefinitely.
I hope that in the course of the next months and years we will see Iran making the difficult transition to an Islamic democracy which can play a constructive leadership role in the affairs of its region. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Chea Vichea, a founder member of the party and president of the free trade unions, was shot on 22 January.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats utterly condemns these assassinations but also condemns the slowness of criminal investigations.
Cambodia needs vigorous political leadership.
All that stands in the way of its creation is the ratification of the agreement by the Cambodian Parliament, and that must be done without delay.
In the elections the Cambodian population showed greater political and democratic maturity than was demonstrated by the country’s leading political forces.
In other words, rather rough customs prevail, and the normal rules of etiquette for dealings between Government and Opposition are not observed, which means that anyone who has made himself unpopular for whatever reason is in grave danger.
Mr Chea Vichea, trade unionist and member of the Cambodian opposition, was shot and killed on January 22, beside the road in Phnom Penh, in the middle of the day.
The European Parliament must condemn not only this killing, but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that Cambodian authorities allow to persist.
The fact that the police or the Cambodian Government did not take action when threats were made against him is understandable, in the light of the collapse of the rule of law and of democracy in Cambodia.
I would also like to point out, Mr President, that it is essential to put an end to the unacceptable, intolerable forced labour involving children, whether it is the children working on the Phnom Penh garbage dump, of whom we are all well aware, or those who are sold into prostitution, or those who are the victims of trafficking in human beings, thereby feeding one of the most vile of all networks.
Although it is a matter of urgency, Mr President, that an ad hoc European delegation be sent to Cambodia as an initial measure, we must not forget that the fundamental duty of the European Union is to continue to provide permanent and voluntary assistance to Phnom Penh, side by side with all the people involved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the killing fields of Cambodia the Khmer Rouge murdered millions of their own people, and now the country is struggling to find stability and equilibrium.
We also know that the Cambodia of today is no richer than the Cambodia of ten years ago, and that for ten years the European Union and the international community have poured millions and millions of euros into the country.
We all want to see the formation of such a government as rapidly as possible.
Parliament rightly continues to take an active interest in the affairs of Cambodia and I will ensure that this interest is reflected in what I say to Council and in the work of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Patten.
We are calling for humanity, logic and legality to prevail at long last in this affair and we are depending on the efforts of Commissioner Patten next week in Islamabad. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to add a few things on behalf of the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece and the whole Confederal Group of the European United Left who, with other groups, have signed and are supporting the joint motion calling for the immediate release of the members of the crew of the ,who have been held illegally in Karachi by the Pakistani authorities since July 2003.
Besides, the ship ran aground when it was under the responsibility of the port authorities of the local pilot.
We call on the European Commission and the Presidency and the Greek Government to intervene decisively and demand the immediate release of the seamen being held in Karachi.
According to media reports, they have been under house arrest since October 2003 and are not allowed to leave Pakistan.
International law actually covers unresolved compensation issues.
In the domain of oil pollution there is an International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, to which 124 nations have now acceded.
Heads of our European Union Missions in Islamabad have discussed the issue on several occasions with the Pakistani authorities, including Mr Kasuri.
It would obviously be admirable if things could be sorted out even before next week.
I repeat, this deplorable situation has gone on for far too long.
The text refers to Greek and Filipino sailors, but the title refers only to Greek sailors.
