Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Thursday 5 July 2001.
José Javier Múgica Astibia always stood up for freedom and democracy and he refused to bow down to terror.
You have just shown how, in this case, justice is surely not going to be done in relation to one of the Members of the European Parliament, apart from the fact that the requests for waiver of immunity must also give the Members of the European Parliament the opportunity to defend themselves, something which has not been possible in this case for a year now.
I would like to point out on behalf of my group that we - independently of the electioneering considerations we have been accused of - have believed that this issue is important for the European Parliament, for our dignity, and we believe it is a step forward that the Committee on Legal Affairs is aware of this.
However, given that the Presidency' s interpretation is in direct conflict with the integrating nature of Community law, I would ask you, Madam President, having become aware of this case, that we might resolve the issue of how we deal with waivers of immunity in this House in a positive manner and according to the integrating nature of European law.
Therefore, I would ask you once again to approach the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that it may make a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure which would clearly establish how we should act, not only in cases such as this, but in all cases of waiver of immunity. (Applause from the PSE Group) Mr Barón Crespo, you are well aware that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already been working on a report on this issue for several months.
But, Mr Barón Crespo, it has already been decided that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market shall deal with this.
Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
We have of course enquired as to why the Conference of Presidents has not placed these two reports on the plenary agenda already.
We are anxious to know quickly because we need to know what will happen to these reports before we move to the general revision of the Rules of Procedure scheduled later this year.
Madam President, that is the proposal formally put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
If it is not placed on the agenda this week this is clearly going to cause difficulties for the committee in question.
I would ask Mr Corbett to show the office of vice-chairman in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs this minimum respect in future. (Parliament rejected the request) President.
The Socialist Group proposes that we begin at 9 a.m.
Madam President, I believe that this amendment of the agenda resolves an issue which remained somewhat in stalemate at the Conference of Presidents.
Mr Schmid has done an excellent piece of work with his report on Echelon and it is something which must be voted on by the whole House as soon as possible.
I have another request relating to Wednesday from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, from the Group of the Greens, from the Confederal Group of the European Left, to end the debate on the conclusions of the G8 meeting at Genoa by tabling a motion for a resolution.
Because the European Union participated in the G8 summit in Genoa - and I refer to the graphic testimonials if anybody has any doubt.
I would also like to point out that my group proposed - and there is agreement on this in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs - that, in relation to possible violations of the fundamental rights of European citizens and the management of public order during the summit, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms should produce a recommendation with a view above all to learning from past mistakes, in the light of the Laeken Summit.
Madam President, my group fully supports the suggestion to conclude our debate on Genoa by a resolution.
I do not propose, however, that we should enter into a debate on the content of this resolution.
My group believes that Parliament must deliver an opinion on the results - or the lack of results - of the G8 summit, as well as on the extremely serious events which took place during the summit, and on the extraordinary success of the initiatives of the Genoa Social Forum, which also concern us at a time when we are involved in a far-reaching debate on the future of the European Union.
Madam President, I did not wish to speak at all but since the President of the PSE Group appears to be upset that I am doing too little to promote liberalism in Europe by not having a resolution, I should point out to the honourable Member that in my group we looked at the precedents.
The groups will negotiate the content of the resolution.
I shall therefore put to the vote the motion to table a resolution following the debate on Genoa. (Parliament rejected the request) Relating to Thursday: With regard to Thursday and the topical and urgent debate, I have a request for amendment from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to replace the item 'Foot-and-mouth disease' by the sub-item 'Afghan refugees seeking asylum in Australia' , which is currently under 'Human Rights' .
Mr Baron Crespo, I do not know who is due to speak in favour of this request.
Given the new measures enacted in the United Kingdom in connection with the current spread of foot-and-mouth disease, we consider it vital that this matter be discussed.
Madam President, from what I have heard, there have been two interventions against and none in favour.
The situation of the Afghan refugees requesting asylum in Australia is already on the agenda, under 'Human Rights' .
I shall put to the vote the request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. (Parliament rejected the request) Regarding the sittings of 19 and 20 September in Brussels: There are no amendments.
Mrs Maes, the response that I am going to give you will, I believe, exceed your expectations.
I am in fact going to visit Macedonia in a few days' time, at the very request of all those people who are involved in this matter and who hoped that the President of the European Parliament would go to Macedonia, because this Parliament, I think it is true to say, is very well regarded and this certainly is a most encouraging sign.
In my view, setting fire to oneself is extremely serious and it is a very clear sign that the situation in Vietnam is deteriorating and I believe that our delegation should pay an urgent visit to Vietnam, as Parliament had already decided.
Madam President, although I am sure that you will have done so already, seeing as this is our first sitting after the summer I would like to remind all the Members that, a few days after the last part-session in Strasbourg, a tragedy occurred in this city: a huge tree near Parliament fell on some people who were attending a concert and many died, including a number of young people.
Of course, Mrs Napoletano, as you already said, I immediately expressed our heartfelt sympathy and sent our condolences to the Strasbourg authorities as well as to the families of the victims.
then I went for a swim! 'Hand in hand for peace' : that was the theme of the Adep demonstration scheduled to take place on 1 September in Ankara.
I ask you to do what you can to see to it that the 500 people still in prison are released immediately.
We have studied this matter very closely, in a strict manner, and, of course, the opinions of our legal service were absolutely firm on this point.
Madam President, a number of people have already raised issues relating to breaches of human rights and I also wish to raise a question of a serious breach of human rights.
It is an appalling situation and I would appeal to you to write to all the parties concerned.
While I am on my feet, may I also make the point that there has been an historic breakthrough in Northern Ireland.
The SDLP - the party led by John Hume who is in this Parliament - has given its support for the first time in the history of Northern Ireland to the police service there and they should be congratulated for that.
That lady you mentioned, was Maria Eraunzetamurgil, but you said that nobody knows who did it.
Six people have died as victims of the unofficial dirty war that has already killed 66 other victims since 1977.
Mr Segundo Marey, who was kidnapped in error at the beginning of the socialist period of the dirty war, also died last month in Hendaía.
Those that were condemned as responsible for the kidnapping - high officials of the Spanish government and police - were released after only a few days in prison.
All those victims also deserve our sympathy and respect.
Madam President, the position taken by Mrs Morgantini and Mrs Uca on the situation in Turkey has our full backing.
The most recent victim was Hulya Simsek, who passed away on 31 August.
This Parliament also knows that the person who spoke previously is an example of this because he has been able to take part in free elections, in which he has been able to express his opinions.
This Parliament also knows that when there have been violations of legislation in the fight against crime, those violations have been tried by ordinary courts with every judicial guarantee and there are currently people belonging to the State apparatus in prison as a result of those violations.
I cannot say the same about many colleagues from my party, from the Socialist Group or from other parties who, because they disagree with the opinions that have been expressed, have purely and simply been murdered.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of creating a European form of company obeying the same supranational rules in all Member States is almost as old as the European Union itself.
Finally in Nice, political agreement was reached on a Council regulation on the statute and on a directive on worker participation.
Article 95 is just as appropriate a legal base for the regulation as Article 308.
The capital of the SE must be at least EUR 120 000.
Hitherto, company law of the Member States has been such that national companies can only transfer their place of business if they are dissolved and re-formed in another Member State.
With an SE, a transfer will not result in the company being dissolved or in a new legal entity being created.
The precise nature of the SE will, naturally, be determined in part by fiscal legislation.
Mayer has already outlined these: a regulation on issues of company law - the statute - and the directive concerning the position of workers in the limited liability company or SE.
Whichever way you look at it, this was a breakthrough because it fell back on the recipe for success established by the Directive on the European works council, a subject which we shall touch upon again in the next item on the agenda.
The Davignon Report calls these reference rules.
The report from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs proposes two significant amendments to the Council' s draft.
The designated body representing workers is nothing more than a special European works council for the European limited liability company, incidentally with better legal powers, something which we should remember when amending the Works Council Directive.
The regulation and directive in question have retrieved the European limited liability company from the frozen depths of European legislation.
We hope that the evaluations will follow promptly and believe that the market will eventually determine the European Statute a few years following those evaluations.
We started off with Article 95 as legal base and we have moved on to Article 308 because it suited certain people.
Workers should be informed at the very start about the situation pertaining to their jobs because they are part and parcel of that company.
That is why I congratulate Mr Menrad on taking this small step on the information and meaningful consultation of workers because it is a step in the right direction.
Therefore, by a large majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have amended the legal base and re-established the correct legal base, in other words Article 95 and Article 137.
It still wants only to decide on matters unanimously, and if there is a legal base for doing so - in this case Article 308 - all the better.
Now that we have come to grips with the European limited liability company as it were, I would like to remind you that other company forms are next on the list: the European association, the European mutual society and the European cooperative.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to speak in this debate dealing with a key proposal for the process of European construction.
The possibility of having a genuine European limited liability company is in line with the thinking which has led us to a European internal market, to a monetary union and to the last phase of the full use of the euro, which we are now approaching.
Nevertheless, as one of the rapporteurs has pointed out, it has taken us thirty years to arrive at this thinking - a little more than thirty years - from the first proposal, in 1970, until now.
There are various options and the possible varieties of European company may even arise within a single Member State.
We have therefore also presented a series of amendments on behalf of the Liberal Group aimed at consolidating this key figure for the Economic and Monetary Union and we would very much like the Council to accept them.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Greens, I should like to say a few words on this subject.
Immediately before the summer recess, we experienced the difficult situation involving the Take-over Directive, the social aspect of which, in particular, appeared unacceptable to a majority of this House.
If we now compare the European works council, as it exists at the moment, with the legislation under discussion with regard to information and consultation, then this comparison works out in favour of the current model.
Finally, I would draw your attention to the fact that I especially support Mr Menrad' s Amendment No 7 concerning the definition of 'participation' .
Mr President, after 30 long years of negotiations, the Employment and Social Affairs Ministers managed to reach agreement last December on a statute for a European company.
The Union can achieve a great deal in the creation of a single market for goods, services and capital.
Members of this Parliament hail from 15 different sovereign states and are aware that company law differs widely from one Member State to another.
Member States' company law allows for two different systems of company management.
A European company without participation in some form is unthinkable.
In conclusion, the scale of employee participation will be decided through free negotiations between the companies concerned and the workers.
It is entirely pragmatic and practical that we will initially have a proposal that will be subject to governments among the 15 Member States.
I want to say to the Commissioner that considerable attention has to be given to ensuring that the rules for this new company statute are consistently implemented across the Member States.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive on the involvement of employees in the European company gives us our first opportunity to establish at Community level a precise definition of what is meant by the right to information, consultation and participation of employees in all companies.
The proposal determines the registration to a trade regime by companies which may choose this new statute following a negotiated agreement on employee involvement.
You are aware that this directive will in future only apply to the employees of companies that choose this new statute, in other words, a small minority.
The co-decision procedure must be used in order to perform this legislative work under conditions which guarantee a genuine debate, involving society and citizens.
It is therefore logical - and I am referring essentially to the social aspects - that there be particular study, analysis and regulation of the involvement of workers in the European company statute and that in a dual system, with a general council and a management and supervisory body, or in a single system, with simply an administrative body, the feelings and knowledge of workers be taken into account, listened to and accepted by means of their representatives, and that workers understand the progress of the company, the risks, the vicissitudes and the objectives it is pursuing.
I do not have time, and I believe it is unnecessary, to refer to the methods and degrees of participation, to the negotiating body or to the role of the European company in the structuring of European social life.
Also important are the transitional period of three years, a high degree of uniformity in the application provisions of the regulation and the transposition of the directive, which would endorse the raison d' être, facilitate the nature of the European company and help to create more Europe, to the benefit of companies, employment and consumers.
The numerous failed mergers and events at Renault Vilvoorde, Danone, Marks &amp; Spencer and in other companies in the past are, in our opinion, good evidence of this.
I would like to extend my thanks to Mr Menrad for working rapidly and constructively with us in the Committee on Social Affairs to bring this report to the vote.
Finally, I would refer to the appeal to secure a majority of votes tomorrow to enable this ship - as one member put it - to be launched on its maiden voyage, despite some reservations and also in spite of some inconsistencies, which we could not allow to go unmentioned.
Mr President, legal doctrine and politics talk a lot of the European social model and it should be pointed out that, at least in terms of the collective rights which regulate industrial and labour relations, European company law, as we are seeing this afternoon, is experiencing the trauma of a very difficult birth, after a pregnancy which has lasted thirty years.
I would also like to point out that, in light of the Treaty of Maastricht and the Social Protocol, since 1974 there has only been one legislative instrument adopted at European Union level.
However, Mr President, the least we can say is that we are going too slowly and with so many preventions and precautions (with regard to certain countries represented in the Council, including my own) that, in the end we have frankly witnessed an anticlimax.
We should be happy about what it does do, which is to enable a European company statute to come into force after 30 long years.
On that basis I did not table any such amendment here but would highlight Amendment No 16 in the Hans-Peter Mayer report which specifically covers all issues, therefore including consultation issues.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate and thank Mr Menrad for his tenacious and efficient approach to the dossier on employee involvement which has been a stumbling block in negotiations on the Statute for a European Company for several years.
Although the first proposal for a regulation dates back to 1970, we had to wait for the Nice European Council before we finally reached an agreement on a draft directive on employee involvement, which supplements the draft regulation on the Statute for a European Company.
The same applies to Amendment No 7 which seeks to remove the exhaustive list of rights held by the body representing employees in the participation process, which, in practice, leads to a participation system that disregards specific national characteristics and casts doubt upon the safeguard mechanism of rights to participation, set out in the Annex to the directive.
Key players in the economy and society have been waiting for the Statute for the European Company for more than 30 years.
We must therefore ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that we fulfil the need expressed by companies for simplicity and flexibility and that we do not, as a result, complicate this statute by incorporating new restrictions which would discourage the companies concerned, and particularly small and medium-sized companies, from using this new tool that is at their disposal.
Mr President, may I begin by thanking the rapporteurs and others who have spoken in the debate this afternoon in the support of the Commission's proposals relating to the European Company Statute.
As we all know, this has been one of the most laborious and long-standing matters which we have dealt with in the European Union, with over 30 years of painful and intricate debates.
The texts which were finally politically agreed by the Council following the Nice Summits reflect most, if not all, of Parliament's concerns.
Those texts are not perfect, but they do translate the broad consensus which now exists within the Council of Ministers and Parliament on the rules which should govern this new form of company.
We are aware of Parliament's reservations, as voiced by many speakers this afternoon, about the legal basis chosen unanimously by the Council.
Even though the Commission did in the past consider other possibilities, we recognise that the Treaty as currently worded makes it difficult to use a qualified majority codecision legal basis in this context, especially with regard to the proposed directive.
The Commission proposed, for both the regulation and the directive, two legal bases allowing for the adoption of the acts by qualified majority voting within the Council.
But at the end of last year the Commission was confronted with the fact that the Council had unanimously changed the proposed legal basis of both texts to Article 308 of the Treaty, which requires unanimity.
In addition, from a strictly legal perspective, the Commission can understand the reservations expressed by the Council on Article 95 as the correct legal basis for the regulation, since the regulation is not aimed at harmonising national company laws.
Turning to taxation, which also has been mentioned by a number of Members of Parliament, you may know that the Commission originally proposed specific tax rules for inclusion in the European Company Statute, but the Council insisted on deleting them.
The Commission will probably be producing its analytical study of company taxation in the internal market and a related policy of communication next month.
In particular, I believe that serious thought should be given to a comprehensive solution for the current company tax problems for businesses active in more than one Member State.
In the aftermath of the study I alluded to just now, the Commission intends to launch a broad debate on the future of company taxation in the internal market and the need for fundamental reform, not least in order to achieve the EU objectives of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, as agreed at the Lisbon European Council of March 1999.
Bearing in mind the specific issues involved here and the intention companies have expressed of creating European companies, I am confident that Parliament will support final adoption by the Council without further delay and I thank Parliament in advance.
The Commission report demonstrates that the Directive on the European works council was the main driving force behind this development.
The directive has its weak points, and the Committee for Social Affairs is pressing for a revision.
The report is in favour of an enhanced consultation procedure with a view to reaching agreement.
We should note that, even before the adoption of this directive, the Court of Justice in various cases held that works councils were parties concerned for the purposes of merger control proceedings.
Article 27 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights says that workers should be guaranteed information and consultation 'in good time' , which is a rather more strict interpretation than 'as soon as possible' .
The second point, which is related to this amendment, is that of sanctions.
However, it should be noted that certain countries only implemented this directive last year and that at least one country has not yet implemented certain provisions at all.
It is clear that companies and their employees still need some time to complete the learning process involved in establishing European works councils.
I still believe it goes too far in reference to sanctions in reducing thresholds in terms of sizes of companies and - frankly - in pushing the trade union agenda as an end in itself rather than in promoting the interests of employees.
For these reasons, I have tabled four amendments, for which I have already secured some cross-party support and I also propose to vote against Recitals 5 and 7, as he knows.
Having said that, I thank the rapporteur for accommodating some amendments in committee and I confirm that I am still willing to vote in favour of his whole report, despite my serious concerns, if the PPE-DE Group supports two of my amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 1 and 3, as we have already discussed.
I would, in particular, like to focus on three elements which, in addition to those cited by other Members, I feel are the most sensitive points and those which require swift action to be taken.
Firstly, the information timeframe: there is no clear stipulation in the directive regarding the timely provision of information and, in recent years - we have often discussed the matter in this House - we have adopted resolutions but have, I regret to say, had a great deal of negative incidents such as workers learning of their fate from the press or being presented with a final decision by companies.
In this regard, we could cite cases such as Ahlston, Adb, Marks and Spencer and many others.
It is strange that it is only in the area of work and social rights that this is almost the norm!
Mr President, the relevance that employees and citizens give to European social policy is being distorted further with each passing day, because of numerous cases of restructurings and redundancies.
Mr President, as thousands of employees in Europe are faced with a wave of restructurings, redundancies and redundancy programmes, the Menrad report on European works councils, although it will not radically change the situation, will at least provide a new source of support for employees to enable them to cope with extremely difficult situations and to have some bearing on the decisions being taken.
Using these meetings as a basis, the Menrad report was able to make a reliable assessment of the situation by showing the need for considerable amendments to the content of the directive.
I support many of the proposals made in the report.
This right, which is an expression of social justice and democracy within a company, also guarantees efficiency for the economy and society.
Overall, the progress made in implementing the Directive on the establishment of a European works council has been positive, since there are now approximately 650 European works councils, most of which were set up on the basis of pre-Directive agreements, in other words, on a voluntary and agreed basis.
The debates which took place in committee were useful and I would also like to congratulate Mr Menrad for his preference for dialogue and the work he did to achieve conciliation.
Nonetheless, the broad consensus which existed within this committee on the need to develop information and consultation, on both a European and national level, must not hide some differences in approach which my colleague, Mr Bushill-Matthews pointed out.
This is a very important provision which particularly refers to cases where timely information and consultation of workers, which is perfectly natural, could conflict with the law by virtue of the legislation on the securities market.
I should like to highlight the rapporteur' s comments about Article 127 of the Treaty, which lays down clear rules, which apply to both competition and social legislation, specifically on informing and consulting workers.
The truth is that the damaging examples of this much sought after mobility of companies and employers are still shocking public opinion in my country even today.
It is important to bear in mind, given what we heard already this evening, that Lisbon was not about competition, but social cohesion as well.
The report points out a number of ways in which a revised directive could make works councils more effective and prevent some of the problems and breakdowns we have heard about: regular meetings, not the token annual meeting that is all 85% of them manage; increasing the representation of women, who are virtually invisible in many of these bodies, just as they are in too many boardrooms; training to improve the quality of representation and communication; and the facilities and safeguards to ensure that works council members represent all sectors effectively.
The current directive must, therefore, be fundamentally changed, particularly in terms of the procedures for informing and consulting workers and of the possibility of intervention by the European works councils, specifically through additional sanctions and a suspensive veto in cases in which restructuring, relocations and mergers do not take account of the reasonable rights of workers.
It is crucial that the Commission presents proposals for amendments to this directive, as we have already requested on numerous occasions, and that it at least includes the improvements contained in the Menrad report and approved by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, in addition to the proposal upon which our group insists.
It is essential that there should be a robust and timely consultation process for all workers and the possibility of the right to a suspensive veto on a decision that may have harmful consequences for workers, in such a way as to allow negotiations to take place and for these harmful consequences to be avoided.
It is equally important, as the Menrad report states, that companies that do not satisfy workers' rights regarding their information and consultation and all other aspects of the directive, with the new amendments that we ourselves are proposing, will not only not receive any financial aid from Structural Funds and be obliged to return any Community or national aid that has been granted them, but they will also be excluded from public contracts and subsidies.
I also agree with him when he asks for the role of these participation, information and consultation bodies not only to be relevant at times of industrial transformation and crisis, but that they should be of a permanent nature in a global economy in which we see symptoms and characteristics of globalisation, and, furthermore, that the exercise of these rights be enshrined at the appropriate procedural moment.
What we are doing today and what we shall hopefully do in the future by means of a new directive is, in a very practical way, to make the market a little more democratic.
When the Employment and Social Affairs Committee held the hearing in April this year and workers' representative from Corus European works council told us that in many ways it was a model works council.
Mr President, I shall not vote against the report, for the sole reason that some trade unions are hoping that it will be adopted, whatever my views may be on their policy.
In fact, in order to counteract a limited increase in the rights of European works councils, the report calls upon us to approve competition rules and the confidentiality of information.
Works councils have been rendered powerless, such as when Moulinex, Aventis, Danone and many other companies made unacceptable redundancies, or they are tricked into approving the employer' s decisions, or even into nominating the victims of redundancies, as was the case at AOM-Air Liberté.
Therefore, the only right which would, in truth, be a right for workers would be the right to employment, or a ban on redundancies, in other words, at least in companies that are making profits.
Mr President, the Commission was entrusted with the task of investigating the effectiveness of the European works council.
The European works council has become more and more important: in 1994 there were 40, and in 2001 there are 650.
In this respect, the European works council has promoted a European awareness outstandingly well and has furthered the interest of employees in transnational measures and in acts of solidarity in exactly the same way.
Indeed, he knew how to build bridges with us in the Committee, and 38 out of 38 were in favour.
Currently, 90% of the members of the specialist negotiating groups and of the European works councils are men.
Lastly, I wish to emphasise that the procedure for informing and consulting workers can lead to a deepening of the relationship between employers and workers in all Member States, thereby contributing to the development of a form of European consciousness.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2000 the Commission presented a report on progress in the implementation of the 1994 directive on the institution of a European works council for Community-scale companies.
The report has a relatively positive outlook, for today more than a third of the companies affected have implemented these works councils, yet it must be said that recent history surrounding certain redundancy programmes have made this process of informing and possible consultation more necessary than ever.
Firstly, the inclusion of measures so that, within a reasonable time, the majority of companies involved would have a European works council.
It must be said that codetermination, a management technique favoured in Germany but in that country alone, has led him to accept socialist amendments from our fellow Member Mr Harlem Désir, amendments that our group had, upon my initiative, rejected in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
I am also conscious of the time that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has devoted to this issue and in particular the extremely useful public hearing which the Committee organised earlier this year, giving all actors the opportunity to express their views.
The report acknowledges the overall success in the operation of the directive, while identifying a number of weaknesses.
Because of the inherent flexibility of the directive, this has been achieved notwithstanding the wide variation in employee participation and industrial relations systems in the Member States.
In acknowledging the directive's success, I should also like to acknowledge, as the report does, the role played by the trade unions, in particular the trade unions at European Union level.
The Commission's report to Parliament and to the Council in April 2000 identified a number of legal and practical problems relating to the application of the directive.
The report highlights some of the cases where, regrettably, employees have not been properly informed or consulted on major decisions affecting their livelihoods.
Since I share Parliament's concerns on this issue and since I am determined to do all in my power to meet those concerns, I was extremely encouraged by the decision of the Employment and Social Policy Council on 11 June to adopt unanimously a political agreement on a common position on the draft directive establishing a common framework for informing and consulting employees.
The common position was formally adopted by the Council on 23 July.
As Parliament may be aware, the Commission's proposal for this directive contained comprehensive provisions on information and consultation both as regards content and timing.
I am pleased to see that Parliament's report has references to the Commission's proposal as a benchmark in this regard.
Notwithstanding this, however, I believe that the political will now exists throughout the institutions to reach final agreement on this text quickly, thus putting in place a comprehensive framework for information and consultation throughout the Community.
Just as some of the issues raised in Parliament's reports relate to the information and consultation draft directive, so others - such as the role of trade unions, the issue of training for employee representatives and the length of time allowed to negotiate agreements - are touched on in the context of the draft directive supplementing the Statute for a European Company with regard to the involvement of employees.
Parliament's report acknowledges - and it will be clear from what I have just said - that the revision of the European works council directive is closely linked to these two legislative texts currently under consideration, that is to say firstly on information and consultation and secondly on employee involvement in the European Company.
The first step would be consultation of the social partners which, if conciliation on the information and consultation text is completed by the end of this year, could be launched early next year.
The Commission has consistently taken the view that the timing of any revision of the European works council directive is inextricably linked to adoption of both the information and consultation directive and the final adoption of the European Company statute proposal.
In conclusion, may I once again thank Parliament very much indeed for its in-depth and knowledgeable reports which will provide crucial input into, not only the Commission's thinking, but also the thinking of the other actors in this important issue.
Thank you, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
A citizen from one country who goes to work in another country and has trouble getting his professional qualifications recognised feels like a foreigner, not a European.
I have read several previous reports containing interesting suggestions.
The number of reasoned opinions, which constitute the second stage, was fairly small, proving that this procedure is effective for certain countries and extremely effective for others.
Firstly, something that should be of concern to all of us - in the Commission and in the Council - and that is the transposition of directives, because it is precisely in the social sphere that a very low percentage of directives is transposed when compared to other fields or to transposition in general.
Mr President, our debate today is somewhat absurd.
Mr President, I wanted to speak in this debate on compliance with Community law because, as a member of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Petitions, I am familiar with non-compliance with that Community law, above all, as previous rapporteurs have said, in the social and environmental fields.
It is true, as my Spanish colleague said, that there is a low level of transposition in the social field of only 71% of directives, but it is even truer that in the Commission, on environmental issues, there is not only poor transposition, but flagrant non-compliance, which is the worst thing: lack of application.
We therefore believe that in the annual report a section should be dedicated to petitions, as the rapporteur rightly says, because it is in that committee that a real contribution to compliance with Community law is made.
It did this in 1979 with the 'conservation of wild birds' directive and more recently, without any legal foundation, on the status and financing of European political parties.
Mr President, the application of Community law is the cause of an ever-growing number of problems, for according to the Commission' s own report, it has opened 2270 files on this subject since 1999, compared with just 124 in 1978.
This rapid increase is caused on the one hand by the constant proliferation of Community Law, and on the other hand, from the increased severity of a Commission that has at its disposal, since the adoption of the Maastricht Treaty, effective instruments of oppression, notably Articles 226 and 228 of the EC Treaty.
Second cause of non-application: the unsuitability of certain parts of Community Law, such as the 1979 Directive on the conservation of wild birds, toughened further by the Court of Justice behind the back even of the Council.
In a case such as this, which, take note, is from a unanimously adopted directive, what is lacking is the opportunity for an automatic revision to be made after a ten year period, at the request of a single Member State.
Finally, the third cause of non-application: certain directives are still not transposed or are badly transposed because the governmental representatives sitting on the Council wanted to turn over a new leaf in relation to Europe by closing their eyes to future difficulties that they of course knew would be inevitable.
This is for example what has taken place in France with Directive 98/44 on the patentability of living matter, which now proves to be non-transposable because it is contrary to several essential parts of our own law.
Mr President, the rapporteur should be congratulated on his wide-ranging and important report and he has rightly identified the problems of transposition and application of Community law, mainly with regard to directives.
They are fundamental to our citizens and also to the rights of this Parliament as a co-legislator, not to mention their possible fragmentary effect on the achievements of the internal market if they are not very carefully monitored by this Parliament.
Mr President, as has been said, the application of Community law does of course constitute nothing less than the decisive turning point in the European Union.
Community law, the 'acquis communautaire' and European unity are based upon European law.
There are a number of structural, or what might be called cultural, differences, and that is also transparently obvious from this report.
It might even be imagined that, as previous speakers have suggested, integration and supranational regulation have consequently gone too far, but that is not the conclusion.
As is made clear, using almost military technology, on page 11 of the report, the conclusion is that we must establish a system leading to the 'elimination of national opposition' .
These reports give, as the House knows, an annual record of the work of the Commission in discharging one of the most vital parts of its role as guardian of the Treaties by taking action against infringements under Article 226 of the Treaty.
Every year, each of the two periodical reports on suspected infringements produced before infringement proceedings are open and each of the two reports on established infringements that are produced after notice has been given to the Member State concerned cover some 2 000 or so cases investigated by the Commission.
The bulk of these are individual cases of incorrect application of Community law by the Member States' authorities.
Clearly it is only possible to deal with such a caseload with a procedure which combines the advantages of individual examination of cases, speedy processing and compliance with the principle of collective responsibility applied in the Commission.
For this reason a single management database has been set up, covering all infringement files opened by the Commission and covering data on the transposal of directives by Member States.
The development of an efficient computerised system will also make it possible to report in greater detail to the public on the action taken by the Commission to monitor application of Community law whenever a decision has been taken to issue a reasoned opinion or to refer a case to the court.
The peer pressure exerted by this greater transparency of decisions that relate to infringements by Member States may also help to promote more rapid conformity from Member States as they all now learn immediately of the decisions taken against each of them.
The report adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market - which is the basis for the motion for a resolution before the House today - contains several findings and recommendations.
In addition, topical events in any given area of the Community law can also trigger an increase in complaints to the Commission and cause the Commission to step up its action to satisfy the needs of the political agenda.
The various stages in the completion of the single market were a good example of that.
The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market refers to the need to shorten the time taken to deal with complaints.
I would also stress that specifically in response to Parliament's concern, the 18th Annual Report relating to the year 2000 will contain a specific section on the management of exceptions to the harmonisation which Member States enjoy under Article 95 of the Treaty.
The Commission also notes Parliament's concern about the need to improve cooperation between the Commission and the national authorities responsible for implementing secondary legislation.
However, the Commission is also looking at ways of improving the procedure for the notification of national implementing measures as an extension of the IDA programme for the interchange of data between administrations.
That work involves the networking of Community and national legal databases covering directives and national implementing measures and will also give the public easier access to Community law and assist with the training of lawyers in Community law.
The network will also provide direct access to the reports on domestic application of Community law produced by specific national authorities.
The active interest of this House in such activities is invaluable and we are therefore grateful to it for its continuing support and understanding.
Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
Mr President, on behalf of all my colleagues I would like very much to welcome Mr Kinnock here to discuss the reforms.
You will know from the support for my report last year that colleagues have taken a very deep and intensive interest in the whole package of reforms and we have given you strong support for them.
On the other hand when you send us the elements of the Staff Regulations, as legislators we need to make sure that those changes to the rules are going to work in favour of good administration and not against it.
The question we have tabled tonight goes to what we regard - and I hope that you will share our opinion - as the very heart of the reforms you are putting together.
They should know that they work in an organisation in which appraisals of their performance are not bureaucratic exercises that are carried out every two years and put in a filing cabinet and not referred to again, that the appraisal process is part of the overall quality of management and processes within the Commission, part of giving all members of staff the feeling that it is part of their personal development.
It is clear that appraisal and career structure are inextricably linked together.
My colleague, Mrs Guy-Quint, is going to cover all the detailed budgetary questions with her considerable expertise in that subject, but I would just like to mention two final elements of our questions, to set them in context.
The first is one that we have specifically asked you about as an aspect of a modern public organisation: a policy for whistle-blowing - and the English terminology is now being widely accepted as a very good way of identifying a policy where officials believe and are confident that if they find wrongdoing they can report it without fear of recrimination or their careers being affected.
The second links in with a debate we will be having later this week on the code of administrative behaviour: how do you see that as an integral part of the overall reforms?
We hope you will also identify ways in which you would like more support from this House in what is for us an absolutely crucial development for the future of the Commission and indeed for the future of Europe itself.
It is my personal wish that a realistic and modern proposal will be found through your negotiations.
In fact, in March we heard talk of EUR 500 million.
In addition, further measures proposed and the demands of other institutions have put a large strain on the funds required for the balance of category 5, hence our concern.
Another element of doubt that makes the 2002 budgetary decision more complex is Council' s failure to respond to the 2001 letter of Amendment No 1 on the implementation of early retirement schemes.
If the Council still insists on its proposal to raise the age for early retirement, we have a question: what will be the consequences for your draft, and, more importantly, do you think that it would be wise to continue under these conditions?
The solution: should category 5 support the two largest projects - enlargement and the cost of reform - on its own?
I first report, without any complacency, that in the five months since the Commission adopted the detailed consultative document on reform and modernisation of human resources policy, progress has been sustained and progress has been satisfactory.
In consultations and negotiations on the complex matters of personnel policy, it is natural of course that some delays have been experienced.
Against that background, the Commission adopted a document on 18 July entitled 'New orientations for the reform of personnel policy'.
By the end of this year the Commission will be in a position to adopt finalised decisions on all issues that do not require changes to the Staff Regulations and also to present a formal proposal for a revised set of Staff Regulations to the interinstitutional Staff Regulations Committee.
The Commission appreciates the supportive purposes of honourable Members in their reference in this oral question to implementation of the new career development policy ahead of formal agreement.
In any event, as the July timetable shows, discussions with Commission staff representatives will be concluded in the near future and many substantial changes in personnel policy that do not require amendment to the Staff Regulations will then be decided by the Commission and implemented immediately.
Changes in detail made as a result of negotiation and consultation have, I am glad to say, produced improvements in the proposal.
Firstly I note the reference in the question to EUR 600 million as 'a cost reform' and I must say that the House is in danger of accidentally misleading itself.
It is essential to stress with maximum emphasis that a clear distinction must be made between the costs of meeting the Commission's carefully measured request for 717 new posts including 118 posts in Delegations, submitted in the amending letter last September, and the far smaller gross costs of investing in reform.
The new posts needed to enable the Commission to fulfil its policy and operational obligations to 2006, set out in fine detail in the amending letter and accompanying documents, will cost around EUR 542 million.
The gross cost of personnel policy reform to 2006 will be around EUR111.9 million.
The largest part of additional human resources spending is therefore not related to any significant extent to the design and implementation of the reform strategy.
The fact remains that, as things stand at the moment, any danger of breaching Heading 5 of the financial perspective emanates entirely, solely and completely from the ambitions of institutions other than the Commission and has absolutely nothing to do with the modest and temporary proposals that we make for additional investment associated with reform, which is a fundamental mission of the Prodi Commission, given to us by the overwhelming majority of this House and the unanimous decision of the European Council.
Although discussions with staff representatives are not yet concluded, the Commission wishes to emphasise that as examination of all relevant figures will show - and the relevant figures are in the documents that I have circulated today and in the document adopted by the Commission on 18 July - the increase in yearly expenditure under Heading 5 generated by Commission reform will be modest and temporary.
The figures published in the new orientations document in July show the maximum yearly increase due to reform - if the measures were adopted by all institutions - would be EUR 34.3 million higher in 2005 than in 2001.
Taking those factors into account and in specific answer to the question before the House, the Commission considers that our reform strategy does not require that we request a revision of the ceiling of Heading 5 and we will not make such a request.
At EUR 111 million, over four years, with investments that would result in actual cost savings, as we have demonstrated, none of the reform investment is expensive.
It is clear that negotiations on modernisation of the career system have led to a consensus about the objectives of changing the system and also about conditions for reforming the system.
It is realistic to anticipate that by the end of October the Commission will be in a position to take a final view of the whole of the human resource policy reforms, including a career structure that is more linear and in the best professional interests of the permanent and independent European public service.
To turn such proposals into reality the understanding and support of Parliament, both as a democratic assembly and as an employing institution, will be essential.
Negative attitudes would frustrate the will of this House that was clearly expressed by a huge majority in September 1999, in November 2000 and on several other occasions.
You have a very difficult task and I have the impression that, in order to progress from intentions to actions, you must put your foot down and take risks, as President Prodi promised us when he began his five-year mandate.
I remember that, a year ago, you told us that eighty officials were expected for the central auditing service to begin work in full in April on an evaluation of the management and control system.
We do not know whether specific prior controls are operating, on the basis of a risk analysis and according to the wishes of the authorising officers.
Mr President, when we embarked on this exercise all of us knew that the reform of the Commission was never going to be easy, it was never going to be smooth and it was never going to be quick, because we had 40 years of entrenched views and in trying to change that we were always going to have to overcome some problems.
She did argue again for a more protracted period of reform, but as we said, if we spin it out longer and longer it impacts upon the morale of the staff and that impacts on the performance of the staff.
If obstacles do occur, we can then start trying to tackle them, here and in the other institutions as well.
Moreover, it is precisely the electorate that has a lot of difficulty understanding why the EU' s institutions maintain such a rigid and old-fashioned personnel policy in which promotions are made on the basis of very formal criteria rather than on the basis of effort.
Mr President, I have not so far received a report, either in Italian or English.
Mr Kinnock, two years ago, in September 1996, Parliament conferred upon the Prodi/Kinnock Commission a very clear mandate: reform.
Two years have passed since then, Mr Kinnock, and - as far as I am aware - the only reform which you have implemented is to take the gold medal for 20 years of service away from civil servants, which, in all sincerity, does not seem to amount to much.
I am not going to defend them as a corporation, but I will say that this matter is serious because it was the task of this Commission to reinvigorate the European public administration.
Mr President, we all know how difficult it is to reform an administration: it is basically a case of replacing the current equilibrium, which is grounded in the inertia and routine of years and of habit with one that is different; excellent in principle but uncharted territory and always experimental in practice.
The proposal has been made in detailed form.
We are now seeking the cooperation of the Council and Parliament in the course of consideration of the modernisation of the Staff Regulations next year.
The result will be that the European public service will have the best and most secure provision for safeguarding the interests of staff and the institutions and the European public of any public administration anywhere in the European Union.
I assure the House that the intention behind the reform generally, and specifically the intention behind the proposals we have made in relation to career structure, is not to try to emulate some form of private sector multinational.
I am very glad to say that in the Commission the staff unions, or a majority of the unions representing Commission staff members, have gone into these issues in the most thorough detail and have actually developed attitudes and ideas that can lead to significant improvements on the original propositions and options that were put.
It is on the basis of that constructive dialogue and negotiation, which has lasted over the past five months, that we are now putting refreshed and reconsidered options which I hope will recommend themselves not only to staff in the Commission but to the other institutions.
There is nothing to fear and there is everything for the staff, the institutions and the public interest to gain by the modernisation of the career structure of the European Union institutions from the inherited structure which is over 40 years old.
Can I say to Mr Pomés Ruiz that the answers to the questions that he has raised, for instance on audit, are available in a number of documents which have been conveyed to Parliament.
We have been told that, in the two years we have had as a Commission, the only reform has been to get rid of the medal for 20 years' service.
But when I look back over these two years I see that we have kept promises to establish, for the first time ever, an independent, professionally led and staffed internal audit service, a central finance service, audit capabilities in every directorate-general, an audit progress committee that bears comparison with any comparable mechanism in the private or public sector anywhere in the European Union.
We have drafted a new financial regulation which came to this House on time and to the Council on time and we are waiting for its enactment.
On time, in keeping with the promises we made on 1 March 2000 we have set out the most complex and extensive set of proposed reforms for personnel management and conduct in the European Commission and European public service comparable to the work that has been undertaken in the administrations of Member States over five and ten years.
It is a slur on the people who work in the Commission and the huge commitment that they have shown, in working 75 hours a week or more, month after month, to suggest that this Commission has done nothing in two years.
One group of people really does deserve credit: the civil servants of the European Union, both those who have contributed to the design and development of the reform programme and those who, in a time of turmoil, have shown patience, understanding and commitment in thinking up the ideas, considering the proposals being made, suggesting improvements and showing the goodwill that demonstrates a high standard of professional commitment to the cause of Europe.
The responsibility for failing to fulfil the mandate lies elsewhere - maybe with the very institutions that gave us the mandate in September 1999.
The Commission and its staff have committed themselves to that.
I read in La Stampa on 15 August that Mr Védrine and Mr Fischer had been complaining.
I wanted to make an understatement and, as the Commissioner has pointed out, it is difficult to make a joke in a language that is not one' s own.
My comment referred purely to the first part.
Thank you, Mr Dell'Alba.
