Groundwater is an important resource, which is used for drinking water, and by industry and agriculture.
It also has an important environmental value, given that it interacts with surface water and wetlands and, as such, forms an important part of the water cycle, which needs protection.
The protection of groundwater from pollution has been the subject of Community legislation since as far back as 1980; most recently, in the Water Framework Directive passed in 2000.
In addition, special measures are needed to prevent and control the pollution of groundwater.
This was acknowledged when the Water Framework Directive was approved, article 17 of which calls on the Commission to submit proposals to address the relevant requirements.
Within this framework, and following extensive consultations with the interested parties, the Commission submitted the proposal being debated today, which includes the main following elements: - a compliance procedure for assessing good groundwater chemical status, in order to limit the number of pollutants, where Community standards already apply; - criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater on the basis of environmental quality standards, which need to be adopted by the Member States at the appropriate national, regional or local level, depending on variations in natural groundwater conditions, the pressures identified and the chemical substances connected with pollution; - criteria for determining deterioration in the quality of groundwater and for reversing pollution trends and - measures to prevent or limit the direct and, more importantly, the indirect discharge of dangerous substances into the groundwater.
The proposal contains clear specifications which will ensure that the environmental targets of the Water Framework Directive are met in respect of groundwater.
Groundwater is, though, not just a vital resource for the extraction of our drinking water; it is also essential to agriculture, industry and our eco-system.
It is for that reason, and also because differing requirements in the Member States inevitably lead to distortions of competition for industry and agriculture, that the protection of groundwater is a task for Europe.
The primary task imposed on the Member States by the Water Framework Directive was the inventarisation of all waters by 22&#160;March&#160;2005.
If all the Member States have met that deadline – and perhaps Commissioner Dimas can tell us whether or not they have – then every one of them ought, by now at the latest, to know in what condition its waters and groundwater are.
We must also determine whether there is a need to enact rules on the indirect introduction of pollutants from point sources and diffuse sources.
The costs incurred in administering and implementing them, and in monitoring their implementation, must be tolerable, without making it less likely that groundwater will be maintained in a good chemical status in all 25 EU Member States, for that is our objective.
I think it very important, if we are to avoid distortions of competition and have a comparable standard of groundwater protection throughout our Member States, that we in this House should call for uniform European categories of this kind for the evaluation of groundwater as ‘good’ or ‘poor’, and so, with this in mind, I ask you to support Amendments 111 and 112.
Let me conclude by asking the House to support Amendments 89 and 90, which divide the list into indicators and pollutants.
I believe that this proposal for a directive to protect groundwater should come into force despite its shortcomings.
This will be a difficult issue throughout the Union.
Groundwater in Central Europe covers large areas, and these are being threatened by various chemicals.
This directive is needed.
It is worth making a combined effort to ensure that groundwater is properly protected.
Since something has to be done about this, we can, in principle, support the proposals in this groundwater directive.
The situation on clay soil is different from that on peat, or sandy soil, and one soil type can also differ from Finland down to the heel of Italy.
Secondly, the Committee on Agriculture wanted to take existing legislation into account.
Nevertheless, from the outset, we found ourselves, at least in certain sectors within my group and certain countries, in a particularly uncomfortable situation, because the directive did not fulfil all the objectives we had hoped for.
Finally, we must point out that we believe that many of Parliament’s amendments make the situation worse, because they are intended to standardise all aquifers and all controls of substances, although we are well aware that European geology is very diverse and that the concept of Europe's geological diversity must be a fundamental consideration of this policy, because sustainable development must be appropriate for each location.
We must therefore take the view that, given that the possibility of purifying an aquifer is very limited, control and prevention are absolutely essential in order to ensure that polluting substances do not build up in groundwater.
Furthermore, and given that the measures to prevent or restrict the introduction of pollutants into groundwater are a vital element of the proposed directive, it is very important, despite what the previous speaker said, that we approve the compromise amendment on Article 6, which we have presented jointly with other Members, in order to ensure that Member States control indirect dumping on the basis of best environmental practices and techniques that are sufficient to prevent such dumping.
Commissioner, I would like to point out that, in its proposed annex of polluting substances, the Commission has not taken sufficient account of the fact that, due to the geological nature of the existing sub-soils, there are certain substances, such as chlorides and sulphates, that occur naturally in many of the European Union's aquifers, and that, from a scientific point of view, it is arguable whether these salts should even be classified as pollutants.
It is essential that it is workable across 25 countries and it is essential that the subsidiarity principle is enshrined in our legislation so that we can achieve high standards that work at national level.
I am happy to agree with the opinion put forward by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which suggests that the Commission should analyse whether the Nitrates Directive can be repealed from 2008.
Legislation should be adequate and workable, but most importantly it should achieve its stated objectives.
The Nitrates Directive is certainly not doing this with 12 of the 15 Member States being taken to court over wrong or inadequate implementation.
But the essential points are that it does not take soil or climatic conditions into consideration and, most critically, that the goal of the Nitrates Directive should be defined at Community level but not the mechanism to achieve that goal.
One of the exhibits informed me that there are 28 different soil groups all over Europe and six of these soil groups are present in Ireland.
We all want clean water but the legislation we put in place must be adequate to achieve it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs&#160;Klaß’s report on groundwater is an extremely complex one.
However, the question we could ask today is whether the objectives of the Water Framework Directive and the objectives of preventing and controlling groundwater pollution will be achieved by the proposals contained in the report.
The protection of groundwater is indeed a crucial issue, since it relates not only to our own water resources today, but also to those of future generations, and to the aquatic ecosystem as a whole.
We attach exceptional importance to the compromise amendment which we have signed together with other political groups on Article 6, in which we state our wish for intensive protection.
The scope of Article 6 must not be confined merely to indirect discharges to groundwater.
At the same time, farmers need to be supported in their effort to achieve a cleaner environment through rural development programmes, so that the objectives both of the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive can be achieved.
We also propose that the Member States list and conduct a midterm assessment of measures taken to prevent pollution.
The emphasis on prevention, the strict protection of groundwater and measures to prevent its deterioration are both necessary and an investment for future generations.
I would therefore ask you to vote against Amendment 43, while Amendment 103 of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is acceptable.
That will depend on which amendments this House adopts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, groundwater pollution is caused by percolation from the surface, as a result of the use of chemical substances in agriculture, as a result of organic and inorganic pollution due to surface flows of waste water and sewage, whether free or channelled, and lastly, but no less importantly, as a result of the inadequate lining of waste disposal sites.
Illegal discharges, which unfortunately take place in various regions of the Union, both in the new accession countries and in the older Member States, like Italy, cause severe and uncontrolled groundwater pollution.
Moreover, groundwater is important for agriculture, industry and for drinking water.
On a different note, I have tabled Amendment 110 in relation to indirect discharges, with which Article 6 of this directive concerns itself.
It is our duty to prevent natural resources from being polluted and exhausted, and, as groundwater accounts for 60% of drinking water in the Netherlands, this is sufficient reason to do all we can to prevent pollution.
That is why we are opposed to Amendments 111 and 112.
What we are in favour of, though, is an emphatic common conduct standard intended to prevent or limit the contribution of polluted substances in groundwater.
According to the European Environment Agency, 87% of European groundwater does not meet the criteria for nitrates, while 10 out of 11 countries report a risk of water pollution from pesticides.
We need strict criteria for nitrates and pesticides and I therefore call on you to vote in favour of Amendments 101 and 102.
Another point is the ecosystems in groundwater.
The microscopic flora and fauna help to improve the quality of groundwater and the quality of drinking water.
Amendments 96 and 98 introduce groundwater protection zones, while Amendments 95 and 100 call for more research into groundwater ecosystems, which is why I call on you to vote for them. &#160;&#160; The issue of protecting groundwater against pollution in connection with supplying homes and industry is a serious one for every country and conurbation.
Furthermore, implementing measures such as legal rules and regulations need to be practical and workable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Nitrates Directive deals expressly with nitrates in groundwater.
Why, therefore, is it necessary for this groundwater directive also to deal with nitrates?
This is more demanding than the standards required under the Nitrates Directive in the nitrate-vulnerable zones.
I believe it to be important that these uniform standards, as proposed in various amendments, should apply to the most important pollutants right across Europe in order to avoid not only distortions of competition, but also environmental dumping.
According to the latest report by the European Environmental Agency, every groundwater body in the EU exceeds the threshold values for nitrates, and these make up 87% of the groundwater in agricultural areas.
If this amendment cannot be adopted, I would call upon the Commission to declare that countries in which non-purified groundwater is drunk directly can introduce a higher level of protection.
What that clearly shows is that drinking water is first among all foodstuffs, and that we must, of course, protect our groundwater throughout Europe, so that we do not end up in future turning our own tap off and sentencing future generations to a similar fate.
The increased value attached to organic agriculture as a consequence of the reform of the CAP was a step in the right direction, but if we promote such things as transport or trans-European convoys or the intensive use of insecticides in the cultivation of maize or tobacco, for example, we are also making it more likely that groundwater will be polluted.
For me, as a Member from Austria, a country with large reserves of drinking water, which are vital and precious to us, careful handling of water, particularly of groundwater, throughout Europe is important.
Furthermore, the farmers will be the main victims of these measures, because the tolerance levels of certain substances, in particular sulphates, which are generated by nature itself in many areas, depend on the characteristics of soils and crops, and there are examples of crops, such as rice, which endure higher levels of sulphates than other plant species.
It is crucially important for the Cohesion Fund to remain at the level initially proposed by the European Commission, as it is supporting the enormous task of protecting the waters of the new EU Member States.
Provision does need to be made for them, and I would ask the Commissioner and the European Commission as a whole to pay particular attention to this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposed directive is intended to ensure that groundwater quality is monitored and evaluated across Europe in a harmonised way.
This directive responds directly to Article 17 of the 2000 Water Framework Directive, and we have been waiting for it for some time.
Nobody can be allowed to pollute our groundwater or freshwater with nitrates or anything else.
However, a one-size-fits-all policy has proved extremely difficult, as colleagues have said, with 12 out of 15 of the older Member States currently in court for non-transposition or improper transposition of the Nitrates Directive.
Finally, let me congratulate Commissioner Klaß on this excellent report on the proposal for a directive, that after its adoption, will play a crucial part in the protection of groundwater after 2003. &#160;&#160; Mr President, everyone agrees with the objectives of this proposed directive.
Groundwater is a major national resource.
In Ireland groundwater and aquifers provide one quarter of our drinking water.
Equally, however, allowing for different threshold values in Member States to take account of these local natural conditions must not lead to unacceptable differences in the protection level or distortions in competition and trade.
I would like to urge this House in any event not to make the Commission proposal any more stringent, and certainly to vote against Amendments 43 and 94.
It is for that reason that the protection of groundwater must be among the Community’s foremost environmental priorities.
It is also often used to provide drinking water, and, if it is polluted, those pollutants can be a hazard to human health, which will in turn impose a burden on our healthcare systems.
By adopting the Water Framework Directive, we agreed that Europe’s waters should be of good chemical status by 2015.
These daughter directives which we are now to adopt must lay down procedures and parameters whereby this high quality standard may prevail throughout the Community.
Amendments 111 and 112 are intended to enact annexes stipulating the level of these parameters.
As for the demand for the revision and possible suspension of the Nitrates Directive, which is what is sought via Amendments 108 and 109, I am opposed to this principally on legal grounds.
That is why the Commission proposed a small number of quality standards at European Union level and took care to ensure that the Member States would adopt appropriate threshold values for other dangerous substances which are considered to be a risk to groundwater.
The term 'threshold value' was used purely and simply to distinguish the national standards in question from the standards at European Union level.
That is why we are prepared to accept in principle Amendments 17 and 57 and the related Amendments 30, 31 34, 69, 70 and 71.
Using the term 'groundwater quality standards' throughout the text clarifies at the same time that, for certain substances, the quality standards in question will be adopted at European Union level and that, for other substances, the standards in question will be adopted by the Member States.
The Commission likewise welcomes Amendment 65, which calls for the adoption of a common methodology in the proposal, so that groundwater quality standards are adopted on the basis of common criteria.
As far as the compliance procedure is concerned, the Commission is in a position to agree in principle with Amendments 28, 29 and 58, in order to allow some degree of flexibility when the good chemical status of groundwater is defined.
However, greater flexibility cannot mean compromise as far as environmental targets are concerned, and the text must be absolutely clear on this point.
Amendments 1 and 2 propose that it should be clarified that the directive concerns the protection of groundwater against chemical pollution and deterioration, a proposal which we can support.
Similarly, I am not in a position to accept amendments touching on matters which are already covered by the Water Framework Directive.
This applies to Amendments 7, 10 and 15 relating to the quantitative aspects of groundwater management, Amendment 16 referring to the characterisation of groundwater and Amendment 52 referring to the 'polluter pays' principle.
However, acceptance of Amendments 23 and 49, which propose a new definition and separate system for historical contaminated sites, cannot be supported, given that management of the sites in question does not come within the scope of the present proposal.
As far as monitoring is concerned, the Commission agrees with Amendments 14, 41 and 43 on the need to tighten up demands in relation to the requirements of the Water Framework Directive relating to the harmonisation of measurement methods and the compatibility and pertinence of the related data.
As regards preventing and limiting discharges to groundwater, the Commission is in a position to accept in principle the majority of the clarifications proposed in Amendments 19, 20, 43 and 48.
As regards determining and reversing trends in the quality of groundwater, the Commission agrees with Amendment 37 on the attention which needs to be given to increases in concentrations as a result of human activity.
Other amendments, including Amendments 38 and 39, concerning the reference to baseline concentrations and the special assessment of trends in relation to point sources of pollution, are accepted by the Commission.
Finally, Amendments 74, 75 and 79 concerning technical specifications are acceptable to the Commission, whereas others, such as Amendments 76 to 78 and 83 to 85, are acceptable in principle but require further clarification.
The directive on nitrates has helped to reduce pollution from farming and will continue to help in future.
The Water Framework Directive, the directive on nitrates and the present proposal for a directive on groundwater are complementary and mutually supportive.
To close, I should like to emphasise that many of the amendments are useful in clarifying the proposal and improve how it stands in relation to the Water Framework Directive and the previous directive on groundwater.
The Commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle Amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 91, 92, 97, 103, 106, 113.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 3, 4, 7, 10, 11, 16, 18, 21, 23, 27, 40, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 62, 80, 88, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0068/2005) by Mrs&#160;Handzlik, on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the internal market in the new Member States: situation, opportunities and lessons to be learnt. &#160;&#160; . &#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking all those whose valuable remarks helped to improve the quality of my report.
Ladies and gentlemen, your interest in this issue, which has been apparent from the amendments you have tabled and the numerous debates and conversations that have taken place, has made it clear that the subject of my report is of great importance to many of you.
The success of the internal market is closely bound up with cooperation between countries, and a concerted effort is the only way of achieving the results we all long for.
With this in mind, the European Council suggested a 1.5% limit for the transposition deficit of directives to apply to all Member States.
Secondly, the so-called Internal Market Scoreboard should be upgraded to become an official European Council document.
These new Member States should also create an environment that is more conducive to links between research institutions and business.
In many of the new Member States, the education system is out of date.
The services directive is also essential to the proper functioning of the internal market.
Before May 2004, certain critics stated that the European Union was being enlarged at an excessively fast pace and without adequate preparation, that the candidate countries were still not ready and that everything would end in disaster and tears.
The Commission would like to thank the European Parliament for this important own initiative report.
We are particularly satisfied with the motion for a resolution by the European Parliament on the internal market in the new Member States.
Almost one year after the enlargement of the European Union, the report by Mrs&#160;Handzlik comments, we are satisfied to note, with a particularly penetrating eye, on the – to a large degree – positive image of the operation of the internal market in the new Member States.
According to the most recent information, Lithuania is top of the league of the 25 Member States, with a transposition deficit of just 1%.
The conclusions of the resolution are absolutely in keeping with the Commission's position including, for example, on the need for more intensive administrative cooperation between the authorities of the Member States, as is already happening in the SOLVIT problem-solving network.
These procedures for resolving differences amicably satisfy the market players and make a positive contribution to the operation of the internal market in Europe.
One of these areas is the transposition of directives and other Community acts to their national legal systems with a view to building a functioning, barrier-free common internal market.
The report gives a concise overview of the state of the transposition of European legislation in individual Member States.
Although my country – Slovakia – often called the ‘central European tiger’ under the competent leadership of Prime Minister Mikuláš Dzurinda – belongs among the EU Member States that do not have the best track record of the transposition of European legislation, economic reforms have enabled the country to make big strides in implementing the medium-term economic strategy.
On the other hand, we need the directives that have liberalising effects.
For the new Member States, completing the Internal Market means proper functioning of the administrative system, while in the case of the majority of existing Member States, it includes meeting their own target of the 1.5% deficit limit.
A negative example, however, is that the forms used to differentiate between enterprises are still not available in all the languages of the Member States.
A politician once said, ‘people are not prisoners of their fate, but of their opinions’.
She must be a paragon of how people in the new Member States view the Internal Market and I think that her report also reflects this and draws on it.
They tightened their belts for years and, as the report states, have in many cases, been even more efficient than many old Member States in introducing the .
Indeed, it would be detrimental if we gave the new Member States the idea that despite their many sacrifices, and despite the fact that the old Member States welcome new markets with open arms, we do not appreciate any extra competition.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mrs Handzlik, for your report, and for your efforts in identifying the challenges faced by the new Member States, in particular, in the process – as yet unfinished – of completing the internal market.
However, we were under the impression that the internal market was part of the efforts of the European Union to remove regional disparities and offer a better quality of life to all European citizens.
However, even relatively recently, we heard concerns being expressed in all the countries that were then still EU applicant countries that the free movement of goods might be disastrous for economies experiencing the shocks of a change of economic system.
The most striking similarity in these debates is the way consumers’ interests are being ignored.
The first amendment tabled on today’s agenda, to reject the country of origin principle for services in the internal market, is in point of fact equivalent to a proposal to reject the internal market.
The country of origin principle is the ruling principle in European Union internal market legislation, and the decisions of the European Court of Justice have confirmed this.
The application of the country of origin principle to the provision of services would open up the European Union internal market to the most important service providers in the Member States, that is small and medium-sized enterprises.
Consumers wish to obtain goods and services of the highest possible quality and for the lowest possible price, but the best way to ensure this is a competitive market and the European Union internal ... &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Handzlik for drafting such an interesting report on the situation of the internal market in the new Member States.
Her report is important for us not only because, if I am not mistaken, it is the first report drafted by a female Polish MEP, but also because it concerns a particularly important issue, one that is crucial to the economic development of the European Union.
I refer to the functioning of a truly common and free market for services within the European Union.
There is no reason to fear enlargement or genuine competition within a market like this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you, Mrs Handzlik, for presenting this report, which adds up to a really good piece of work.
As she said, we are fundamentally very much in favour of a services directive being drafted, and of the services market being opened up; we do not, however, want it to happen any old how, but in a truly socially acceptable manner.
In paragraph 5, for example, it is stated that the new Member States have implemented the mutual recognition principle in their legislation.
These things are what matter to the public in the European Union, and I think that is what we have to achieve.
For that reason, too, I congratulate Mrs Handzlik, and I congratulate this our Parliament on having produced this report on the current state of play in the new Member States, and on the imminent report on consumer protection.
One such successful indicator was the Protocol on Conformity Assessment and Acceptance of Industrial Products, recommended by the European Commission to the candidate countries as an instrument for preparation to work under the conditions of the internal market.
One of the reasons for drafting this report was the fact that the new Member States are already teaching all of us a lot about how to deal with the internal market.
That is why we wanted to draw up this report, because the new Member States have so much to teach us.
As the shadow rapporteur I would like to say the biggest problem we face in Europe at the moment is unemployment.
Since 1999 the majority of new jobs in Europe have been created in the services business.
We can deal with the problems that are being raised, but we have to do the job properly.
On this side of the House we will lead the way in delivering an effective services directive and continuing the transformation of the European economy, with the new Member States coming with us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mrs Handzlik on drawing up the first report by a new Member from a new Member State in a new committee.
Recently, I have had the opportunity not only to go with the delegation to Poland, but also to go to Hungary in a business delegation with representatives of my own region.
We have heard today in the voices of Mrs&#160;Handzlik, Mrs Pleštinská and all our friends precisely what their ambitions are and why they should be supported.
I must say to our friends in the new Member States that to believe that raw capitalism will give you all you need and will be your servant is an error.
I am proud to say in the middle of the British general election campaign that we are right to have given free entry into our market to people from the new Member States.
I hope Mr Harbour will go back and tell the Conservative Party in Britain that it should take that same welcoming view. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, only a few short years ago most of the countries that joined the EU in 2004 were trapped in a different political system.
Many successes have been recorded, but the bitter words uttered in the course of various debates, such as the debates on discrimination in the internal market or on the methods of reciprocity suggest that much still remains to be done.
Attempts to circumvent directives or to burden the European Union with decisions detrimental to the interests of consumers are an everyday occurrence.
Regarding the amendment tabled by Mrs Kallenbach on the proposed services directive, I would just like to say that we should not use this excellent report as a vehicle to intervene in the current work on the services proposal.
This weekend we will be celebrating the first year of the European Union of 25 Member States.
The move from an internal market of 15 to an internal market of 25 is providing a new dynamic.
We should use this dynamic to move ahead in removing barriers and create further opportunities for our companies and our citizens.
Despite the fact that the Council had adequate notice, no-one from the Council turned up last night to respond to these questions.
I really do not exclude the possibility, on which the experts also agree, that this contraband can also reach the old Member States of the European Union.
Therefore, our suggestion is to also include in paragraph 12 the Kaliningrad region as a particular risk, thus urging a stop to the flow of contraband from this territory into the countries of the European Union.
I propose that the end of paragraph 13 should read: ‘notes that a moratorium on the death penalty exists in Morocco and calls on the Moroccan authorities to abolish the death penalty’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with regard to the proposed reference to the Baker plan, you probably all know that it has disappeared from the new proposals by the United Nations Secretary-General.
I ask that the words ‘and countries seeking accession’ be added in all the paragraphs in which action is demanded on the part of the Member States, the candidate countries, or the Council, as Recital H makes explicit reference to Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I will want to bring in another oral amendment when we get to Recital H. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we intend to table an oral amendment to paragraph&#160;17; we have already notified you of this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have an oral amendment to paragraph&#160;17.
Mrs de Groen-Kouwenhoven wishes to move two oral amendments to insert new paragraphs after existing paragraphs 18 and 20. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to table two oral amendments to add two paragraphs to the resolution.
As all five groups supported these important paragraphs, there should not be a problem.
I simply do not think that the original version of this, as it stands, does justice to the facts of the situation by stating that the Roma in Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to be victims of ethnic cleansing.
I agree with the rapporteur that the following text should be added to the end of paragraph 25: ‘Further asks the Commission to prioritise amendment or removal of any legislation that is detrimental to the smooth functioning of European financial markets’.
This puts the emphasis on banking, but does not restrict the study to banking services only. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have an oral amendment to paragraph 38, which will also replace Amendment 1: ‘Considers that Member States have long and diverse traditions in consumer protection; notes that the [one word deleted] call from part of the financial services industry is for minimum harmonisation, whereas certain practitioners, notably the banking industry, advocate targeted harmonisation in order to achieve a true level playing field; therefore, urges the Commission to organise a discussion about the fundamental structure of the EU financial services market, bearing in mind consumer and practitioner interests and European global competitiveness;’.
Parliament must therefore continue to foster the creation of cooperation mechanisms in scientific and technological innovation.
Parliament must therefore continue to foster the creation of cooperation mechanisms in scientific and technological innovation.
The ‘if in doubt, opt for freedom of movement’ ruling resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of visa applications by third-country nationals that were approved, to the extent that the number more than doubled, with many ‘tourists’ taking up employment in the black economy or ending up in prostitution.
This applies to the legislation that is the subject of the recommendation before us, which I voted in favour of. &#160;&#160; Pollution from households, agriculture and industry is increasing.
Groundwater is an important resource for drinking water and for industrial and agricultural processes.
The rapporteur points out, however, that the new legislation must maintain at least the current level of protection, and that prevention should be a key element.
The Council should have the central role in this decision-making process.
The Directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution should therefore apply for roughly three years whereupon it should be replaced by a directive incorporating the principle of subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of this directive.
This directive must not deviate from the principles adopted in the Water Framework Directive.
Only a limited number of parameters can be subject to quality standards laid down at European level.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe it is essential to improve the tools for protecting the environment and the quality objectives for water in Europe. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council regulation amending the regulation on the creation of a European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions.
The purpose of the Foundation is to develop ideas on improving living and working conditions in the medium and long term, and to identify factors leading to change.
By providing information and analysis on living and working conditions, the Foundation has played a significant role in developing the Community’s social policy.
I voted in favour of the report, given that the amendments are intended to clarify the Agency’s objectives and responsibilities, to improve its functioning, to strengthen the role of the social partners and to enhance cooperation with other bodies operating in the social field.
The report before us does not take into account the specific characteristics of the new Member States and the fact that they lag behind the other Member States.
Naturally, the new Member States must also adapt to this.
Whilst I feel that it is first and foremost up to the private sector to make the most of these new opportunities, the public authorities must at the same time ensure that internal market directives are transposed correctly and on time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to make a statement concerning the vote on Mr&#160;Coveney’s report on human rights.
Acknowledging its importance, the PPE-DE Group voted in favour of the report as a whole.
Secondly, these amendments indirectly imply that abortion is a human right.
Thirdly, Articles 8 and 9 go against the principle of subsidiarity.
This is not the first time that the left-wing groups in this House have sought to misuse the human rights report in order to make abortion more freely available.
The PPE-DE Group has therefore deliberately left these questions to the consciences of its Members and taken a negative line on the substance of Amendments 8 and 9. &#160;&#160; I would not have asked for the floor if Mrs Stenzel had not attacked our group in such an unbecoming way, and one that is so extremely unworthy of a Member of this House.
Mrs Stenzel will not find it difficult, if she looks at the result of the vote, to see that the report would have been lost if our group had voted against it.
If she thinks that is bad form, then perhaps she should consider whether she is perhaps judging by the wrong criteria. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Schulz.
I particularly welcomed the report’s forthright affirmations against terrorism – including the declaration that there is a prime duty on democratic governments to dismantle terrorist networks – its denunciation of the Commission’s reversal of the embargo on arms sales to China and its identification of persecution in many countries throughout the world of citizens because of their Christian beliefs, though I would have liked it to have been more explicit and focused, particularly with regard to the appalling abuse of the rights of members of minority Protestant denominations in Eritrea, Vietnam, North Korea, Colombia, Burma, Indonesia, Laos, Egypt, China, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and elsewhere.
The report should also recognise, as is demanded in Amendment 9, that the only way we can ensure there is a proper response to acts of sexual violence is by giving full respect to reproductive health rights in the first place.
The EU has a responsibility for human rights in its immediate neighbourhood, consisting mainly of countries in Eastern and Central Europe that are potential Member States.
I could write a great deal about this annual report by Parliament, which, in common with previous years, has been used as a means of political pressurising and meddling, in which countries seen as ‘friends’ are exempt from criticism, and the ‘others’, those countries deemed targets by the USA and EU, are criticised.
However, it does not mention the situation in Member States of the European Union.
I wish to draw attention to the case of Marek Dochnal and Krzysztof Maciej Popenda, two Polish businessmen, who have been in captivity since October 2004.
Information about their private and family lives, not connected with the legal investigation, has been also published, which breaches Article 8 of the ECHR.
These two men are victims of political persecution.
I hope and trust that this Parliament will react against this abuse. &#160;&#160; . &#160;I voted against the Coveney&#160;report on the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2004 and the EU’s policy on the matter.
This was because, provisions concerning the extension of so-called reproductive rights as a method of preventing the spread of AIDS were introduced into the report by the Left and the Liberals, in spite of opposition from a significant proportion of Members.
Provisions regarding swift access to abortion for rape victims were also introduced.
In view of the fact that opinion on abortion is so divided in Europe, I feel that such controversial provisions should not be included in any European Parliament document.
The report does not condemn this breach of international law.
Looking at this report from our privileged situation, living in this part of the world, one inevitably feels a duty to take concerted and effective action to protect human rights (and to protect democracy, because, let us not forget, these two concepts are intrinsically linked; without democracy, there is no human rights protection).
It is impossible to cover every aspect of such a broad issue, but there is one aspect that I wish to bring to the fore.
These are areas that are especially close to my heart and that I have been pursuing as human rights coordinator for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
After this oral amendment was rejected, all of the amendments tabled in this House by the Left were adopted, yet the Left abstained from the final overall vote, which is evidence of their intention to manipulate an important overview of human rights to their own ends. &#160;&#160; . &#160;I voted against the Coveney&#160;report on the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2004 and the EU’s policy on the matter.
This was because, provisions concerning the extension of so-called reproductive rights as a method of preventing the spread of AIDS were introduced into the report by the Left and the Liberals, in spite of opposition from a significant proportion of Members.
Provisions regarding swift access to abortion for rape victims were also introduced.
In view of the fact that opinion on abortion is so divided in Europe I feel that such controversial provisions should not be included in any European Parliament document.
Secondly, the assessment of the situation in Columbia completely ignores the grave violations of human rights committed by the government and is framed as a one-sided condemnation of the guerrillas.
When a political programme sets out values to promote, it is only natural to follow it, including in the voting lists.
That is why I voted against Amendments 8 and 9.
The Commission has to address the social exclusion of Roma and Travellers in Member States, candidate countries and other countries outside the current borders of the Union, and act, as a matter of urgency, to curb&#160;the widespread anti-Roma and anti-Traveller sentiment&#160;in Europe.
Instead, we feel it is best to keep the fight against discrimination and prejudice, which the Roma undoubtedly face, within the mainstream of political, economic, and social policy. &#160;&#160; .– The PASOK parliamentary group in the European Parliament will be voting in favour of the resolution on the Roma.
Combating social exclusion and discrimination against the Roma in Europe, on the basis of today's resolution, must be a priority of the institutions of the European Union and of the Member States.
There are problems not only in a number of new Member States that joined in 2004 and in the two countries that will be acceding in 2007, but also in such old Member States as Greece and Italy.
Paragraph&#160;11 expresses a concern in administrative terms, whereas this is in fact a matter of the progressive annihilation of our societies, not to mention the future arrival in Europe of Turkey, for which reason we oppose a rejection of ‘social self-defence’. &#160;&#160; .
In other words, we must urgently seek solutions to problems that are already apparent.
We believe that issues surrounding safety and health at work, social protection or healthcare are not the responsibility of the EU.
It is not a little ironic that, although the rapporteur is not satisfied, 39 of the Plan’s 42 legislative measures have already been adopted.
In other words, the targets of this Plan are those areas with the best implementation, in light of the unambitious social targets set by the ‘Lisbon Strategy’.
The existence of an action plan for that purpose and the results that have come to light are cause for some satisfaction.
There is more work to be done, however, which, as the report before us points out, must be accompanied by a suitable assessment of the measures that will need to be taken over time, so that a good proposal is not spoiled by too many or too few legal instruments. &#160;&#160; Discharges of substances dangerous for the environment constitute an important political issue.
We do not, however, believe that the EU needs to have a common strategy in terms of the Punta del Este Conference on Persistent Organic Pollutants.
