Situation in Gaza (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Gaza.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is deeply concerned about the violence in Gaza in recent weeks.
During a military operation by Israel, several people died in Beit Hanoun on 8 November, and in a disastrous barrage of artillery fire almost 20 Palestinians, women and children included, lost their lives as they were leaving the area.
At the same time, the Palestinians have continued to fire Kassam rockets indiscriminately at Israel, at the cities of Ashkelon and Sderot, for example.
The European Union cannot accept the use of violence.
The European Union has called on Israel to cease its military action in Gaza.
The Palestinians have a right to a government that represents the interests of all citizens.
More than EUR 650 million has been given in aid through various channels this year, and that is around 25% more than last year.
The escalating violence in Gaza recently culminated in the attack by the Israeli Defence Forces on Beit Hanoun on 8 November, which resulted in the death of 18 Palestinian civilians.
Our thoughts now go to the Uthamina family in particular, who lost six women and eight children, killed in their sleep, and to all the innocent Palestinians and Israelis who have lost their lives in this spiral of violence.
The Beit Hanoun attack is the latest in a series of incursions into the Gaza Strip which started on 28 June.
Military operations have caused damage to vital infrastructure, especially in Gaza - including the power plant, major roads and bridges, and government buildings - and killed almost 300 Palestinians, mostly civilians.
This Temporary International Mechanism has supported the delivery of basic services to 1.3 million people living in the Gaza Strip and social allowances to 100 000 vulnerable Palestinians.
The operation is now increasing its outreach to 150 000 cases.
The Commission, through ECHO, has allocated EUR 84 million to help vulnerable Palestinian households through the provision of food, water supply and sanitation, healthcare and social protection.
The European Commission is also providing a EUR 26 million package of food aid.
This will contribute to restoring hope for a viable and independent state for the Palestinians.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Middle East is at once worrying, dangerous and tragic.
As we tell all the parties in the Middle East, a military solution is out of the question - we need peace through dialogue and through negotiations.
This is an issue that the EU must consider for the future, however, as a means of making a genuinely European contribution in this regard.
Israel, that wonderful country, the country founded in response to the lowest point in the history of mankind, has a right to our absolute solidarity in the region.
The only opportunity for a solution in that region is the renunciation of violence.
Thus, we expect Israel, in particular, to give priority to political dialogue rather than further militarisation. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I have lost count of the number of times we have debated the Middle East in recent months, but I do know that, since our debate in September, 150 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, 70 in the last week alone.
The atrocity in Beit Hanoun, where 18 Palestinian civilians were killed, is as indefensible as it is inexplicable.
He reports as others do that Gaza has become a prison, with daily reports of extrajudicial executions, of lives disrupted and rendered miserable, disproportionate retaliation - especially since Operation Summer Rains, the Qassam rockets have killed 14 civilians over two years.
The IDF response has killed 126 people in the last month, of whom 63 were not involved in fighting.
The international community cannot continue to condemn while waiting to solve the situation.
We must waste no time in deploying international and military observers in Gaza.
Palestinians must understand that the use of terror will never earn them the recognition they seek, and Israelis must understand that they are losing recognition by their incessant flouting of international law and disproportionate military action against civil targets.
Admittedly, there is no excuse for the constant launching of Kassam rockets against Israel, but nothing can justify subjecting a whole people to a draconian punishment like that imposed by Israel.
Finally, the European Union must play its full part in organising an international conference to promote peace in the region.
The declaration and acceptance on the part of the Palestinians of a Palestinian State based on the 1967 territories: thus recognition of the State of Israel.
However, there was no such move by the Israeli Government, which has never recognised either the 1967 secure borders - since it continues to build settlements - or the Palestinian State.
It has been distracted by other Middle East events such as the war in Lebanon, Iraq and Iran.
We must all renew our efforts to find and encourage a peace process in Gaza.
I condemn the rocket fire by Palestinian militants from Gaza this morning, which killed an elderly woman and wounded another person in the Israeli town of Sderot.
I also condemn the deaths of the 18 civilians in the shelling of Beit Hanoun by the Israeli defence forces last week.
The EU has an obligation to protect civilian lives.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, seven Palestinian rocket attacks on Israeli territory this morning resulted in the sad statistic of one fatality and one seriously injured in the town of Sderot.
After all, the Council and the Commission will not be unaware of what the Chief of Shin Bet, Israel's Security Agency, told the Knesset, to the effect that, if the radical political and military tide in Gaza does not turn, Israel will have no choice but to mount a large-scale military operation.
Gaza should not turn into the much-dreaded Hamasstan. (IT) Mr President, I have just come back from Palestine.
Eleven thousand is the number of Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli jails, including 400 children and 41 members of parliament elected in polls that the international community accepted were free and transparent.
Time is up: either we adopt a strong, incisive initiative now, or otherwise we must accept full responsibility for having been unwilling or unable to do enough. (Applause) (ES) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, I believe that we should draw two conclusions from the debate that we are holding this afternoon.
Mr President, in the formal sitting this morning we were reminded that these problems of recurrent violence in the Middle East can only be resolved by means of a fair and all-encompassing solution.
I am struck however - and I am glad that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council is here - by the regrettable fact - and the Belgian Prime Minister, Mark Eyskens, reminded us of this - that, for every one hundred times that the European Union votes in the United Nations, on sixty occasions each Member State does so in its own way.
Europe should therefore do what it has done in Lebanon and adopt a position that is strong and unanimous, as is today's joint resolution by Parliament.
It should therefore use all the political tools at its disposal, including the Association Agreement with Israel, in order to put an end to the violence.
This violence condemns all Palestinians to death, but it also condemns Israeli democracy.
I am also concerned about the Israelis possibly using new weapons of destruction in this dirty war - weapons whose use has already been suspected in Lebanon - and I call for an international inquiry to be launched in this connection.
I support the idea of an international peace conference, bringing together all the players in the Middle East including Syria and Iran and, in common with the editorial in the newspaper Haaretz, I call for an international intervention force to be sent to Gaza.
They are a people fighting against third party interests for their dignity and survival.
They are a people who, in the face of the hypocrisy of the international community, the occupation and terror, are fighting for their continuing existence. (DE) Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the most important point with regard to these issues is that people on both sides are suffering at the hands of politics.
This is all being done by a State which claims to be the only democracy in the region.
However, it is also clear that Israeli firepower and Israeli oppression of the Palestinian people will not bring a secure future for Israel either.
Next, a military force needs to be interposed as soon as possible between Israel and Palestine, as was done between Lebanon and Israel with the FINUL.
The American administration will, I hope, redefine its policy in the Middle East.
These deadlocks in the European Union are being paid for today, politically and humanitarianly, by the Palestinian people.
Israel, it must be recalled, withdrew from Gaza in good faith, but the Palestinian Authority failed to establish law and order there.
Instead we have witnessed a degeneration into chaos, internecine warfare and repeated Qassam rockets being deliberately fired at innocent Israeli civilian targets, such as the woman killed today in Sderot, with no apologies from the militants, such as Hamas, and the militias effectively using human shields as Hizbollah did in Lebanon by firing rockets from civilian areas, thus inviting retribution which resulted in the tragedy of Beit Hanoun.
We must not forget what is going on, with missiles being launched from Palestinian territory often with the backing of terrorist and extremist organisations, because there are some who do not want to thwart the peace process.
We have to commit to establishing a Palestinian state and make every effort for Israel to feel secure within its own borders, so that no Israeli family feels forced to send one child to school on one bus and another child on a different bus every morning, because they do not know which of the two will return home.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, thank you to the Members of Parliament for this very valuable debate.
This is an important issue and a serious, long-term problem right on Europe's doorstep, so we have to pool all our resources to find a comprehensive, long-term and lasting political solution.
The European Union should play a leading role in that respect and, through its participation in the Quartet, encourage any ideas aimed at furthering peace in that area, including an international conference on the Middle East process.
The debate is closed.
Written statement (Rule 142) The European Union must do everything in its power and use every instrument at our disposal, including the EU association agreement with Israel, to end the violence in Gaza.
I fully support the idea of an international peace conference bringing together all the actors in the Middle East, including Syria and Iran.
We need an international force in Gaza as a matter of urgency.
