Taking into consideration the different forms of autonomy guaranteed in EU states, on 8 February 2009, in Sepsiszentgyörgy (Sfântu Gheorghe), a crowd several thousand strong demanded that the President withdraw his offensive statements toward Hungarians in Transylvania, guarantee representation in state institutions commensurate to ethnic populations, cease targeted relocations into the area, stop deliberately crippling the economy of Székely Land, expedite the return of ecclesiastical and public property, halt the expansion of military units, establish state-funded independent Hungarian universities, recognise Hungarian as an official language of the region and recognise collective rights and the regional autonomy of Székely Land. (BG) We must congratulate the Lower House of the Czech Parliament for ratifying the Lisbon Treaty.
Let us reject double standards and respect our own actions and words, and remember that what brought us together more than 50 years ago were human rights. (BG) The European Economic Recovery Plan is now in place.
The egoistic approach of the European elite, their joy at the loss of the jobs of over 100 000 people in the shipyards and the firms which work with them will surely result in a large part of these workers appearing on the job market in western Europe in the near future.
It was that Mr Sammy Wilson, the Environment Minister in the regional government, banned a UK information campaign organised by the UK Government on energy efficiency.
I think even a climate sceptic like Mr Wilson should take care of citizens and support energy efficiency and efforts to decrease the energy bill. (PT) Today, I should like to highlight a scandalous situation involving Corticeira Amorim in Portugal.
This company's profits, in the last two years combined, were in excess of EUR 30 million, with more than EUR 6 million being recorded in 2008.
He has been the subject of many resolutions in the European Parliament, so I am very pleased to announce that he has now been released. (PL) Mr President, Poland returns Members to the European Parliament, but their ability to act in their own country is limited.
This schism arose at a time when the country was highly politicised, at a time when the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, like many other structures, had to uphold its position in the democratic face of Bulgaria.
Even though the centrist party, Kadima, received the largest number of votes, the fact that the right-wing parties now hold 65 seats in the Knesset, compared to 50 in the previous elections, reflects the changing views of the Israeli citizens about the Israel-Palestinian conflict.
It is absolutely crucial, therefore, for the European Union to continue pursuing the peace talks and to restore hope to Israelis and Palestinians that a peaceful coexistence is possible. (PL) Mr President, tomorrow Vaclav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic, will visit the European Parliament.
This shows that no one should be in a hurry where such an important decision is concerned, and this is understood not only by the visiting Czech President. (RO) After the autumn elections in Romania and the formation of the new government, we have seen the return with a vengeance to political life in Romania, just like in Slovakia, of anti-Hungarian incitement.
The demonstration that took place on 9 February in Sfântu Gheorghe, organised by the Hungarian churches, was precisely in protest against this incitement.
Perhaps Mr Wilders' banning had something to do with the alleged threat by a British peer, Lord Ahmed, that, were Mr Wilders to appear in the House of Lords, 10 000 Islamist demonstrators would appear outside.
I think that must be taken against a background of a recent Eurobarometer poll, which shows that support for Irish membership of the EU has dropped by 10 percentage points from 77% in the spring of 2006 to 67% in the autumn of 2008.
Recently, Die Welt wrote that Majdanek was a Polish concentration camp.
I therefore address a request to my fellow Members for support of the UEN initiative, so that no one will ever again distort history or make executioners of the victims and victims of the executioners. (RO) As some of my Hungarian fellow Members have been complaining recently that their rights are not respected in Romania, I would like to state a couple of facts.
Citizens of Hungarian origin are represented proportionally in the local administrative structures.
For instance, the Hungarian minority's parties have 195 mayors and four chairmen of county councils, 2 684 local councillors and 108 county councillors.
At parliamentary level, the Hungarian minority have three MEPs in the European Parliament, 22 MPs and nine senators in the national parliament and have participated in governing Romania during the last 12 years.
I would ask the Commission to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency. (PL) Mr President, at a meeting today, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group unanimously adopted a draft resolution calling for 25 May to be established as Heroes of the Fight against Totalitarianism Day.
The choice of 25 May is not incidental - it was on that day, in 1948, that the Soviet authorities murdered cavalry Captain Witold Pilecki, the Polish soldier who voluntarily became a prisoner in the Auschwitz extermination camp in order to build the resistance movement there.
Therefore I ask you, Mr President, to support the initiative of our group. (RO) The recent history of the European Union offers a record of the success stories in terms of protecting minorities' rights.
With this in mind, I have tabled, along with my colleague Rareş Niculescu, a resolution on creating a European agency for Roma.
Parliament should not encourage any type of confrontation with the democratic institutions in Venezuela.
This is a de facto and de jure situation.
This allows EU citizens to acquire information in their mother tongue about the other 26 countries.
The Czech page about Germany displays Köln as Kolín, while the French page displays Cologne.
This can only be described as an inadequate way to deal with the allocation of EU rural development money.
However, I feel the situation clearly demonstrates the dire straits of the agriculture industry, certainly in my region, if farmers have to queue for days outside, during winter months, in an attempt to secure modest sums of EU funding. (RO) The implementation of the energy and climate change package assumes significant investments in measures aimed at cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
This increase will offer Member States greater flexibility in using the structural funds, thereby speeding up their absorption, especially during the current economic crisis. (PL) Mr President, it is with great sadness and anger that I would like to say that one of our countrymen, a Polish engineer, died recently in Pakistan, but he was yet another citizen of an EU country to die in that region.
I think that those politicians in the European Union who feel that terror can be fought without violence are mistaken. (CS) The mounting economic crisis is affecting all countries of the European Union.
I would like to register a protest here in this house against the statements made by the French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, in which he called for the French brand Peugeot to shift a plant in the Czech town of Kolín back to France.
In fact, a report by the United States Department of Energy found that extending daylight saving time by four weeks saved enough electricity to power some 100 000 homes per annum.
As the rapporteur of the review of the EU ETS, which formed the cornerstone of the EU's climate and energy package adopted last December by this House, I urge you to consider this proposal as a contribution to meeting the 2 °C target.
We are returning to nationalism and protectionism, which have been consistently rejected for 50 years, ever since the Community was first founded.
