Quarterly statistics on Community job vacancies (debate) The next item is the report by Alexandru Athanasiu, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on quarterly statistics on Community job vacancies - C6-0090/2007 -.
Quarterly data on job vacancies, broken down by economic activity, are needed by the Commission and by the European Central Bank for economic and monetary policies.
Owing to its importance, this statistic was included in the set of principal European economic indicators defined in the 2002 communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on Eurozone statistics.
The relaunch of the Lisbon Agenda for more and better jobs in 2005 gives rise to the need for accurate, timely and comparable statistics on job vacancies in Europe, by region and by economic activity.
I welcome too the proposal to include personal services, farm vacancies etc., employers with fewer than 10 employees, and the nature of the employment contract.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work on this proposal for a regulation on the collection of quarterly statistics on Community job vacancies.
This is particularly true at EU level, where we are dealing with 27 different countries all trying in this particular context to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, implementation of the Lisbon Agenda as regards the increase in the number of high-quality jobs requires certain tools.
Eurostat has to have a legal basis for collecting data on job vacancies.
Amendment 3 tidies up the method for submitting data even when they are provided voluntarily, which makes it vital.
Among these compromise proposals I would like to highlight in particular the significant contribution of the proposal to include in the statistics data concerning units with fewer than 10 employees, the proposal to distinguish between vacancies for fixed-term and permanent posts, and the proposal to ensure that as many European citizens as possible have access to the data.
Worse, Amendment No 8 - if adopted - allows the collating agency to reject as inappropriate national figures and substitute figures of their own.
Finally, Amendment No 3 encourages the exclusion of agriculture, fishing and forestry from these considerations.
The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council replaces existing practices, based on a gentlemen's agreement, for the collection of data on job vacancies with a decision to establish a legal framework for this activity.
It also has specific practical outcomes as regards the correlation of employment policy with supply and for planning the direction of vocational training for future employees. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express my support for the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on quarterly statistics on Community job vacancies.
