Neither is it the first time that the European Parliament is taking action in this field.
This conference was held under the auspices of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering, for which we thank him, and was organised by Mrs Uma Aaltonen.
I would like to remind you that Mrs Uma Aaltonen was once one of our colleagues.
Mrs Uma Aaltonen suffers from multiple sclerosis herself.
Thanks to our cooperation with multiple sclerosis associations in all the Member States and the European Multiple Sclerosis Platform, a code of best practice was drawn up on the basis of this report and the resolution which accompanied it.
As the participants at this conference pointed out, and as we heard during our previous debate on the subject, mortality statistics often state as the cause of death the failure of the pulmonary or the cardiovascular system, but do not mention that the primary cause of the pulmonary failure was simply muscular paralysis and that the patient suffocated, or that the cause of the cardiovascular failure was multiple sclerosis.
Also, under the preceding programmes (the fifth and the sixth), the Commission funded 18 projects on multiple sclerosis, the largest of which, in the sixth programme, totalled EUR 11.4 million and related to neuro-protective strategies for multiple sclerosis.
Finally, I would like to inform Parliament that the Commission intends to discuss with Member States a proposal for a large European consensus conference on neuro-degenerative diseases, including multiple sclerosis, to be held in 2009 or 2010, and the Commission will be able (on the basis of conclusions endorsed both by public and private stakeholders at that conference) to propose a communication or other relevant policy initiative, including specific actions in all the fields of disease prevention, research and management of this group of diseases.
Whilst on behalf of Parliament, I expressed our support at this conference on 29 May, I would still like to put three specific questions to the Commission.
As regards the treatment of people with multiple sclerosis, and indeed the prevention of their marginalisation from society, there is a huge disparity in the way in which people affected by multiple sclerosis are treated across the European Union.
We have had 10 years of enormous economic growth and wealth, and yet we still have one of the lowest ratios of neurologists to patients among the EU's wealthy nations.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, there are approximately 400 000 people with multiple sclerosis within the EU.
Louise McVay's petition brought our attention to MS in 2003 and it is only right that, three and a half years on, the Commission reports on the progress it has made in ensuring that the code of best practice, in particular, is implemented.
The 2003 resolution called for equal access to health care for people with MS, but some drugs, like beta interferon, are still not uniformly available.
That is why, as the Commissioner said, it is so important for the Employment Directive 2000 to be implemented equally across the EU.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, people who live with MS came to us in the Committee on Petitions to alert us to the discrepancies in treatment and opportunities for people with MS across the EU.
The situation is similar in Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Hungary.
Perhaps this debate on MS will lead to some wiser thinking and be the catalyst for changing this unsatisfactory and, in many respects, shameful state of affairs for the benefit of our citizens. (PL) Madam President, there are around 60 000 MS sufferers in Poland, which ranks Poland in third place after Germany and the United Kingdom.
It will give us ideas and inspirations on how we can proceed with this important issue in the future.
So, access to this information through the health portal will be made available to all citizens very soon, if it is not already available.
Written Statements (Rule 142) It is not easy to take part in a debate on a disease that affects over 400 000 people in Europe, with a new case every four hours.
At the same time, all the commitments made by the European Commission in its 2003 resolution must be honoured, in particular with regard to drawing up a code of best practice.
