That is why all the EU institutions - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have signed up to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 11 of which states that: 'Everyone has the right to freedom of expression.
There is a rule in the directive that broadcasters need to reserve at least 10% of their transmission time or 10% of their programming budget to European works created by producers who are independent from the broadcasters.
Now let me recall another important aspect in the EU's field of competence where this institution can act and has acted for the benefit of media pluralism.
The written press is one of those prime examples of national, or even regional, competences and its situation very often reflects the varying cultural traditions in our different Member States.
Such a programme would, in difficult times for the written press, allow journalists to work for a limited time with editorial staff in other Member States.
Mr President, Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, if I have asked to take the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in this debate on freedom of the press in Italy, it is first and foremost to denounce the unfortunate use of this European Parliament to debate national issues.
It is also to denounce an unfair and dishonest attack on the government of a European Member State in which the rule of law is applied as rigorously as it is in the rest of Europe.
However, these words express, in no uncertain terms, the respect that should be shown for our democratic institutions, be they national or European.
The answer to all of these questions is clearly no.
Mrs Reding, never forget that we are a Parliament and not a museum where things are left to moulder away. (PT) Three or four weeks ago in Portugal, Prisa - a Spanish company that is a known supporter of the Socialist Party and majority shareholder of the television channel TVI - ordered the cancelling of the evening programme Jornal Nacional de Sexta-Feira.
Mr President, the President of the Italian Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, is right to say that the European Parliament is not the place for settling disputes between political parties within Member States, or for opposing decisions taken by the national parliaments.
It should be pointed out - and I believe that this is a huge problem - that three countries, not just one, not just Italy, but also Romania and Bulgaria, have been included in the 'partly free' category.
This directive should guarantee that our constitutional provisions on freedom of the media are respected fully and harmoniously in all of the countries of the European Union, and certainly in all of the countries in question.
I must also tell you, Mr President, and I will finish here, that I was very disappointed by the Commission's speech.
The Member States can all do whatever they like as long as it is compatible with their national Constitutions.
Mrs Reding, you said Europe is doing its best, fundamental rights are fundamental, but not when it comes to a Member State that is already a Member State.
People in Bulgaria, people in the Netherlands, have a right to do so, and I stand up for that right.
Perhaps there have been similar situations in other countries.
In Poland recently, a serving Minister did everything possible, using all available instruments, to keep the President of state television in his position.
Moreover, it is, as you said, Mrs Reding, recognised by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights on pluralism and Article 51 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union on freedom of expression.
European newspapers, including the French magazine Le Nouvel Observateur, are also threatened.
Ultimately, the independent written press is being crippled financially in two ways: by the 'Tremonti' Decree of 6 August 2008, which reduces public aid for independent newspapers, and by advertising budget cuts.
This observatory would monitor respect for the principle of the separation of powers between political power and media power throughout the Union, the implementation of a maximum concentration threshold in the media, respect for journalists' rights to inform, and respect for publication rights for independent newspapers.
Freedom of expression is guaranteed in Italy: whoever claims otherwise should have the courage not to submit general motions for resolutions from a purely political perspective, but to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 7 of the Treaty, which requires documentary evidence of the state of completely non-existent affairs. (DE) Mr President, we need a revolution in democracy.
In fact, in 2004, a debate was held in this House on freedom of information in Italy.
Indeed deny if you can - ladies and gentlemen from Antonio Di Pietro's party - that you are communists.
All Member States are involved, and all Member States of the European Union should guarantee these principles of media pluralism.
Commissioner Reding has not mentioned that two of these steps have already been taken.
Article 21 of the Italian Constitution decrees that the press may not be subject to authorisation or censorship.
As other Members have already confirmed, Italy is the only country in which the Head of Government has a monopoly on public, and now also private, television channels and in which, unfortunately, a law is being passed that will, in fact, prevent journalists from publishing even judicial reports.
I am sorry. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I really heard everything being thrown at the Italian Prime Minister except for the fact that, thanks to his entrepreneurial activities, he provides jobs for tens of thousands of people.
I invite you, ladies and gentlemen - not just the Italians among you, but the others too - to study the articles published, in any given month in 2009, in the three main national newspapers: Il Corriere, La Stampa and La Repubblica.
I am not Italian, as you can tell when I speak, but the most convincing argument that comes to my mind is the question of what was the matter between 2006 and 2008 when Italy had a leftist government and, of course, at that time - as Mr Mauro has pointed out - everything was fine and dandy.
While democracy was representative when universal suffrage was brought in, making all persons equal - one person, one vote - in the communications market we are not all equal, because we do not all have equal access to radio discussion shows, television debates, columns in the press or editorial comment in the communication media.
If we work from the European Parliament, and on a European scale, we will be sending a strong message of commitment concerning the permanency and survival of freedom of expression within pluralism of information in the 21st century. (IT) Madam President, I will try to be brief.
Not once in our speeches have we mentioned the Italian Prime Minister.
We could have referred to the number of newspapers he owns: 150 in Italy; and around 40 television channels.
The sovereignty of each State, the reaffirmation that the European Union is not a superstate, Commissioner Reding, must not make us forget that the European Union also has a Charter of Fundamental Rights from which stems a legislative system that the Member States cannot ignore.
It is not a Member State that we are targeting; it is the question of knowing whether we are applying the treaties, whether we are applying the European Convention on Human Rights signed in Rome in 1950, and whether we are applying Article 6 of the Treaty.
The President of the Italian Republic pointed out that legal remedies existed and mentioned, in his speech, Article 7 of the treaties.
If we fail to admit that we, who sit in the same Parliament, have the right, the duty to see what is happening in one of the Member States, how can we tell dictatorships in distant countries that we defend a universal idea, which is so very important for the defence of women's rights, in particular? (IT) Madam President, it is strange that, when we talk in this House about freedom of expression in Italy, we continually exceed the speaking time, and thus indirectly censor the next speaker.
I can confirm that, of 455 sentences handed down by the European Court of Human Rights for infringement of Article 10 on freedom of expression, 29 relate to France, 28 to the United Kingdom, 15 to Greece, 10 to Romania, 8 to Poland and only 7 to Italy.
Therefore, since this issue does not fall under our competence, it must be discussed and decided upon on at national level.
If we take on powers that do not belong to us, and if we interfere in issues that do not fall under our competence, then we will be undermining rather than strengthening our legitimacy.
If we want to gain the respect of our citizens, then we have to begin by respecting the limits of our competences. (ES) Madam President, the European Union has a duty to guarantee the pluralism of the media.
There is, in fact, a clear legal competence for the EU to act to uphold freedom of expression and fundamental rights in general.
That legal basis exists and must be complemented by legislation on media diversity and pluralism.
In reality, 1 100 radio stations, 162 newspapers and several hundred private television stations would not be enough to guarantee the plurality of the media, which are supposedly threatened by Silvio Berlusconi's initiative.
In other parts of the world, in the meantime, the same system is in operation as influential newspapers such as El País, The Sun and Tarin seem to be quickly changing their political stripe.
Freedom of the press is indeed an important right, but why have you kept quiet for the last 20 years when it was obvious that in the former socialist countries, the media was concentrated, to a very large extent, in the hands of the former Communist parties?
All I ask of you is not to employ double standards. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that, on 30 September, the Commission presented a study on the indicators of media pluralism in the Member States.
However, in 2008, this House adopted a report by Marianne Mikko in which the European Commission and the Member States were asked to safeguard, and I quote verbatim, 'the multiplicity of opinions in the media, to guarantee the pluralism of information, to ensure that all EU citizens can access free and diversified media'.
Even earlier, in 2004, Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Boogerd-Quaak on the risks of violation, in the EU, of freedom of expression and information.
In this report, the Commission was asked to submit a communication on the safeguarding of media pluralism in all the Member States.
However, I, as a European citizen, am asking you in this House what the Commission intends to do at European level to ensure that media pluralism is guaranteed in all the Member States. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion against the alleged attack on press freedom in Italy reflects the choice, I feel, of a politically oblique and unsound path.
If we really do want, as an exceptional measure - such as the one, I apologise to Mrs Serracchiani, used in this case, namely that of discussing one country and not Europe - to ascertain the truth about the health of democracy within our country, then we should ask the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, respectfully as an institution, whether he feels that he is the President of a country in which pluralism of information is floundering, freedom is in a tailspin and the tide of democracy is going out.
Since the issue does, however - ladies and gentlemen of the left, and I am sorry to say it - touch on Italian political matters in a very provincial way, taking on an artificially European, and now domestic, dimension, it must be pointed out that, as long as the Italian left, which was once so much more powerful and substantial, allows itself to be led politically by comedians and demagogues, it will become increasingly distanced from power.
I do not believe that Woody Allen dictates to President Obama the line he should take. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, as a former journalist, I too never imagined that today, 50 years after we started building Europe and shortly before the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force, we would be debating certain basic principles and values on which the European Union has been built and founded.
That equates to EUR 32 million per year.
The main person to subvert this concept, from a semantic point of view, is called Antonio Di Pietro.
Every time a State President or Prime Minister of a European Union Member State attacks journalists, even if only because they disagree with them, the European Commission, European Parliament and everyone of us must respond.
In Italy a Prime Minister is attempting to intimidate the opposition press by every means available.
This is exactly why I am calling on the European Commission, just as I did on 23 September, to publicly condemn this behaviour from both the President of Romania and the Italian Prime Minister. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that, in Italy, freedom of the press does exist and is stronger than ever.
Mr Di Pietro is the record-breaker - incidentally, the judiciary sues the press more than politicians do - as, according to information published in La Repubblica, he has filed 357 complaints, and has already received EUR 700 000 in damages.
We have heard the information supplied by our fellow Members.
To conclude, if there is a realignment problem - and I believe that this problem exists in Italy - the only political party that has the right to invoke it is the centre-right. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008, the Berlusconi Government granted a total of EUR 206 million in direct contributions to the press and to radio and television stations.
Italy's concerns are also our own. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate really is incredible, because in Italy freedom of information is a guaranteed and recognised constitutional right.
Then there is the Refoundation Party, which has its own newspaper, Liberazione.
Although this has been a debate about freedom of information in Italy, as other speakers have said, there are serious issues in other countries in the European Union.
It is for this reason that we have voted in the new Television Without Frontiers Directive, with the help of the Parliament, for the establishment of independent media authorities in all of our Member States.
Now where there is a disagreement in this House is on how to bring together EU competences with media policies.
The work on media pluralism has already made substantial progress and we have published the second step with the risk indicators on media pluralism.
Second question: why does the Commission not activate Article 7 of the EU Treaty in the case of Italy?
You might recall that the European Commission started to work on the draft for such a directive in the 1990s and you will also recall that all Member States, without exception, were against such a directive at that time because it was considered to be outside the competences of the EU.
We want these freedoms to be a right; we want these freedoms to be a basic value and to be treated as such. (Applause) Commissioner, please accept my apologies on behalf of the House for the noise during your speech in response to the Members' comments. (DE) Madam President, before I make my personal observations, I would like to start by raising a point of order.
I therefore call on the President to intervene here, in Parliament, because this is now the third attack that the police have failed to follow up.
National debates must be settled at national level!
Every Member State must assume its responsibility and comply with the Copenhagen criteria, including in the political domain.
I believe that it is important for us to give greater importance to these criteria and to use them as a starting point for a future directive in this area.
To uphold and protect it, and to respect its diversity and its political, social and cultural missions, is the mandate of all governments.' This is Article 1 of the European Charter on Freedom of the Press.
In Italy, as well as other countries, a large proportion of newspapers are owned by individuals controlled by certain politicians who lay down management policy for them and from which they cannot deviate.
