The political groups were working yesterday in order to be able to table amendments, and today I see in the Minutes that the item has been added to the agenda of Wednesday 28 November and that the deadline for tabling amendments has been set for Thursday 22 November.
Lastly, to give just one example, and I shall finish on this note, Mr President, it states that the Commission is proposing a single contribution of 120 million, yet it does not state whether these are euros, dollars, condoms or DDT.
Firstly, in my capacity as rapporteur I have always wanted to be the representative and spokesman for a broad majority in Parliament.
But, at the same time, we have all declared that we should take into consideration another aspect of added value: the added value of giving research a European dimension.
There are also specific measures to improve professional life and mobility for researchers, while taking account of the requirement to strengthen the role of micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized businesses.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament will today establish a firm and sound position after our first reading.
By midday I hope that we will also reach agreement on ethical rules and on stem cell research on supernumerary embryos.
The vote today could also benefit the debate and votes to be held on the Fiori report during the November sitting in Brussels.
The result of the votes held by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 16 and 22 October has already been noted by the 'Research' Council of 30 October, judging by its final communiqué.
From the point of view of the Committee on Budgets, I must say, I support the rapporteur, but I am being pulled in two directions, because I at the same time have to announce that my group has misgivings and will not vote in favour of this resolution in its entirety.
A slight increase was achieved, but at the same time the allocation was not exceeded, in other words the programme is, in budgetary terms, within proper and sensible limits.
His report provides a balanced discussion of all the main arguments on which the European institutions should concentrate their attention as regards scientific research and the potential for technological and social development.
The Caudron report quite rightly addresses these aspects.
I believe the Caudron report also invokes the transparent and democratic nature of decisions on scientific research when, instead of invoking principles of natural law, which are, in fact, only held by certain authorities, it refers, in the case of the ethical problems of research, to charters of rights, the documents which have effectively been approved and sanctioned by our Institutions.
On this and other matters I believe we should go with the Caudron report.
These amendments concern employment, health and safety at work, access to work for the disabled, small and medium-sized enterprises and European Community research centres.
Then we asked for action in the field of health and safety at work, in order to encourage access for the socially excluded and disadvantaged, such as people with disabilities.
In conclusion, Mr President, I must move in favour of approval, since science and research are there to serve the people, for that right to life that no one is entitled to jeopardise.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy spoke out clearly in favour of research and for the curing of illnesses, but also in favour of clear boundaries for the sake of human dignity.
In particular, our Committee demands the exclusion of exploitative research on human embryos from the research framework programme.
This ban is necessary not just because human life is involved, but also because we must counteract the danger of the female body being seen as raw material for industry.
The life sciences constitute a distinct discipline and the fact that the Sixth Framework Programme has recognised this is a great step forward.
If we had used the title 'Cultural and social research' , it might have been easier to include research on women, and not just research carried out by women, as in the paragraph 'Science and society' .
It is therefore in the European interest and adds value if women are involved in research and teaching at every stage, from planning, via decision-making to project management, as well as in EU initiatives for prizes and competitions in all disciplines.
More emphasis has been placed on bio-sciences; a better link has been established between research on the human genome and related diseases; far more attention has been devoted to a coherent package of industrial policy, information society, nanotechnoloy, as well as aviation and aerospace.
In my view, the package is looking better now all in all.
The Sixth Framework Programme is the first implementation of the European Research Area, which itself is a consequence of the Lisbon Summit and its wish for us to have a successful knowledge-based economy, because of the strong correlation between research and development and economic success - inadequate in most EU countries outside Scandinavia, I should say.
I come to international activities, because the research framework programme must look outside the EU as well.
It is essential that there is both earmarked money for international cooperative research - we suggest EUR 400 million - and mainstreaming across all the research, particularly on HIV/AIDS malaria and tuberculosis.
Mr President, I would first like to thank Commissioner Busquin for the way these proposals were prepared, for listening to the views of others and for his excellent collaboration.
Although there have been differences of opinion on some conclusions, the work was completed to a high standard.
My thanks also go to my fellow shadow rapporteurs.
From what I have heard, I think all the political groups will reach a compromise on these points.
Secondly, we would like to see an assessment of the effects of new technologies, like electromagnetic radiation for example, on populations, on health and so on.
Thirdly, we would like to achieve a fairer balance between research on renewable energies and research on nuclear energy.
Today, we can adopt a position on the Caudron proposal in peace and quiet.
Mr President, I should like to express concern at the Commission emphasis on large integration projects, which would impact badly on small community-based enterprises as promoted within the framework of rural development programmes and research in the agricultural and associated food sector.
It is now clearly established that the EU-assisted programmes, such as Leader, have the potential to create sustainable employment in rural areas where more centralised programmes would have failed.
Finally, and not for the first time, I want to express my concern about research on human embryos.
Mr President, the Caudron report is threatening to become problematic from a Christian-ethical point of view.
Citizens would then be forced to contribute towards research which is punishable in a Member State such as Germany and which a number of national parliaments have declared themselves openly against.
A situation should not, however, arise in which ethical differences are exploited as a competitive factor.
Finally, within the research framework of cross-border problems, it is not funding but cooperation which deserves a central role.
The funding of research into surplus embryos only complicates this cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fundamentally welcome the Commission's proposal for the Sixth Research Framework Programme, above all the Europe-wide coordination and the emphasis laid on basic research.
I would remind you, though, that research on embryo stem cells is prohibited in several Member States, including Austria.
To use EU funds to finance research in one Member State which would be banned in another is unacceptable.
This research is expected to have future applications in four areas of medicine: first, hereditary illnesses, secondly, the most common fatal illnesses, namely cancer, cardio-vascular and degenerative neural illnesses, thirdly, an understanding of the mechanics of various illnesses, which will lead to new, more efficient treatment and drugs and, fourthly, the prevention of disease.
I trust that the European Parliament will support the line being marked out and strike the right balance between progress and ethical considerations.
Our citizens will want to know why we want to spend more on space research than on sustainable transport.
The Temporary Committee on Human Genetics has come to very useful conclusions here and its report should have been taken before this debate.
However, amendments have been tabled in line with its proposals and these must also be accepted by the House, otherwise we will be in deep conflict with our citizens.
For example, proposals on fusion are out of date.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a very important text, the substance of which will not only determine how the European Union applies research in practice, it will also set the tone for guidelines and practices in all the Member States, especially those like Greece which, to all intents and purposes, have no national research programme of their own.
If the EUR 400 million can only be spent in Europe, can the Commission tell me whether mainstreaming will make it possible to fund the African network?
We are discussing a research programme which will end in 2006.
By then, if we do not finance the pan-African network, more than 400 million people may have died in sub-Saharan Africa and in other poor countries, and more than 50 years of development policy efforts are likely to be ruined by then.
Mr President, in line with Lisbon and Stockholm Summit declarations and with the report of this Parliament on the future of the biotech industry, the life sciences are a top priority of the Sixth Framework Programme.
This priority is upheld in Mr Caudron's excellent report.
These funds are one day to be invested for 25 or even more Member States, and that is not enough.
An attempt is similarly being made, incidentally, to involve European Union research in the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, be they nuclear, biological or chemical.
As far as bioethics is concerned, I urge support for the proposal by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which simply takes account of the different understandings of the law on this subject in the Member States, and we as European legislators cannot supplant the Member States on this point.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to endorse the congratulations and words of thanks to Mr Caudron.
There is no doubt that bio-genetics will create new opportunities in future in the fight against incurable diseases, such as Alzheimer' s, Parkinson' s and some forms of cancer.
Within the parameters set out in the Caudron report, particularly in Amendment No 22, and under strict ethical supervision, including that of parliaments, we are of the view that it must be possible to finance stem cell research within the Member States' legal framework.
The Caudron report presents us with this new challenge, which is dealt with in depth.
Since Galileo, ever since time began in fact, scientific progress has always challenged the established order.
It has been a delight to participate in the work on the framework programme.
Finally, I hope that the Commissioner, together with his Director-General, will take the lead when it comes to the simplification that is necessary if small and medium-sized companies, together with university departments, are happily able to participate in the programme without experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the Sixth Research Framework Programme is an ethical minefield.
We must not permit the use of Community funds to finance something that is punishable in these Member States.
This document is, I believe, so excellent and innovative that it is almost a sin that the debate in Parliament should concentrate on ethics and the use of stem cells, important though that issue may be, while losing sight of all the novel, highly significant elements present in this Sixth Framework Programme.
The danger that European research funds might end up being monopolised by large companies, which, by definition, are those that perhaps need them least since they patently already have the capacity to propose and run research programmes, is still very real.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Commissioner Busquin for his extraordinary commitment and for the enthusiasm he has managed to raise in the European Parliament for the creation of a European Research Area.
The text originally proposed by the Commission has been considerably supplemented and rejigged, now both specifying more clearly the research priorities in Europe in the various sectors and rejigging the initial financial architecture.
With regard to the biomedical sector, I must express my satisfaction with the EUR 500 million increase given to biomedicine, not just for genome and post-genome research but for all research aimed at adding to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms at the basis of diseases as well.
That is why I now ask Commissioner Busquin, on behalf of the whole scientific community and of a number of Nobel prize-winners, such as my friend Renato Dulbecco, Rita Levi Montalcini and John Vane, to maintain this increase in funding for biomedical research for the next five years.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Gérard Caudron for his difficult work.
I also think it is important, and necessary, to interconnect research and society, firstly by examining every research project to determine the effect of research on society: in other words, by carrying out technology impact assessments, and secondly, by actively including citizens in the research dialogue and strengthening this dialogue between research and society.
If we are able to realise these three dimensions: sustainability, dialogue between research and society, and an effective approach to SMEs, then, I am sure, research will find a place not only in the minds of Europeans, but also in their hearts.
Firstly, genetic research: genetic and biotechnology offer great opportunities in medicine and the environment, and it is certainly right to give massive support to these areas at European level.
Some Member States, including Germany, have banned the use of human embryos for research purposes, and this naturally includes associated activities such as the cloning of human life.
I think that our consideration and respect for other Member States make it incumbent on us to exclude activities which obviously raise serious issues of ethical responsibility from joint European research funding, and I therefore urge this House to vote for Mr Posselt's Amendment No 334 or Mr Liese's Amendment No 332.
The second issue which I would like to address briefly is fusion research.
Mr President, as someone who suffers from a neurological complaint, to wit Parkinson's disease, I am naturally biased in this matter, but I am a little shocked by the frequent use of terms like 'unacceptable' and 'dignity' applied to people who wish to find a solution through medical research to the terrible problems facing those who suffer from neurological disease, such as Alzheimer's, motor neurone and Parkinson's.
There is no dignity in dying of motor neurone disease and there is precious little dignity in suffering from Parkinson's either.
If I thought that an embryo had the same human rights as a child or an adult human being, I would not, of course, not be in favour of anything that meant the destruction of human life.
The second point is this: there is no sense in allocating EUR 17, 18, 16 billion - the figure has not yet been finally decided - if these funds are not used where they are most needed, that is, in the universities, in industry, and in the SMEs.
The purpose of research and innovation is to bring products to market and improve our competitiveness.
Mr President, I am in favour of research.
The majority, therefore, in the temporary committee, whose aim it was to draw up ethical guidelines for the European Union, rejects the research funding suggested in the Caudron report.
EU funding should not be promoted for controversial research, banned in four Member States, my own country included.
Respect for the dignity of the human person is a fundamental principle upheld in all European and international agreements.
Many citizens, myself included, believe that there is a more acceptable, ethical and moral way forward than the one which leads us to destroy one innocent human life in order to cure another.
I urge you to reject the funding suggested in the Caudron report.
Munich is one of the most modern locations for research in the European Union, and Franz Josef Strauss set a course 30 years ago which has ensured that there is still an aerospace industry today.
I am delighted that in all its decisions since 1988, since the Ghergo report, the European Parliament has adhered to this position by a clear majority and that the German Bundestag's Study Commission adopted this line, also with a clear majority, on Monday evening, referring in this context to the Fiori report which we adopted last week by a substantial majority in our Committee on Human Genetics.
I think it would be most regrettable if this important, high-quality research framework programme were associated with any attempt to undermine the European Parliament's clear ethical line on embryo protection and the protection of human life.
Mr President, the sixth framework research programme is a serious and fundamental attempt by the European Union to achieve its strategic objectives, that is, to become the most competitive knowledge-economy based area in the world over the next ten years.
Our success in achieving our political and development objectives will depend directly on how we use the results of research for the benefit of the health and quality of life of our citizens, full employment and social cohesion.
The social agenda which we have adopted and are currently applying is the basis for this policy.
Ageing, widespread poverty and social exclusion, large numbers of accidents at work, the need to successfully integrate large groups of citizens such as the Roma, the need to integrate the disabled into the job market, the constant need to help women enter the job market, new risks to employees' health and our increasingly multicultural society in Europe are such that we need scientific research on which to base our policy over coming years.
Our citizens are unable to read the articles not just in scientific journals, but also in the broadsheets.
Mr President, the report and the framework programme have been extensively modified since they were first presented to this Parliament.
Citizens should be aware of this extensive transformation, so that they can see the good cooperation between the institutions.
I also have to say that this journey has been carried out on the basis of a policy that aims to reduce work, reduce the work of the committee and to create fewer projects, but larger ones, and Parliament has been able to break down this centrality with regard to large projects, large companies and various research programmes that are essentially covering work that on many occasions is quasi-public with regard to the large research centres or large industries, such as the aeronautical industry.
Parliament has been able to open this project up in more directions, extending its range of priorities to territories that, up until now, were not covered or that were not considered important.
Europe needs protection measures and incentives that are suited to its dimensions.
For this very reason, the escalier d' excellence seems to be very effectively set out in Amendment No 305.
The European Parliament' s opinion at first reading does indeed constitute a milestone along our way.
As regards the structure of the framework programme as a whole, the Commission shares Parliament' s views as expressed in Amendment No 36 tabled originally by Mr van Velzen.
The arrangement also allows for Parliament to closely monitor the implementation.
Each of the eight priorities will in fact have a separate budgetary line on which Parliament will be able to exercise its budgetary control.
With regard to the scientific and technological content, most of the amendments, namely Amendment Nos 30 to 294, relate to the scientific content.
We wish to signal our agreement with a series of suggestions by Parliament concerning priority numbers 2 'Information society technologies' , 3 'Nanotechnologies' , 4 'Aeronautics' , and 7 'Citizens in the European knowledge-based society' .
Most notably, the Commission agrees to reorganise the content of priorities 1 'Genomics and health' , 5 'Food safety' , and 6 'Sustainable development' , along the lines suggested by Parliament.
That question had indeed already been dealt with.
The sustainable development priority will therefore be subdivided into three sections dealing with these three aspects.
Before turning to more general points, I should add that the Commission also accepts or takes into consideration a number of amendments concerning both content and general policy.
In real terms this represents a 17% increase as against the overall budget for the previous framework programme.
I think I already mentioned how significant this is inasmuch as the figures proposed by the Commission were arrived at following a needs assessment and in the light of the financial perspective and the possibilities provided under heading 3 of the internal budget policies.
As for Parliament' s proposal to increase the global envelope by EUR 100 million, that is not a substantial additional amount.
In connection with the latter, it would be wise to demonstrate flexibility when interpreting the principle of reserved use of EUR 200 million for ITER.
I should now like to say in this connection, that jointly with the Member States, the Commission will set up a working group charged with setting targets in the less distant future, taking 2020 as a guide.
Such an initiative would bear considerable fruit too.
As for distribution of the framework programme budget allocation, the Commission will support the general direction of the guidelines proposed by Parliament.
Why not risk depriving these activities of resources?
With regard to ethics, we did consider the amendment adopted by the ITER committee in the report drawn up by Mr Caudron.
Mrs Maes, I do believe that the coordination of national programmes is a key element in the construction of a genuine European Research Area, and I mean national and regional programmes.
Clearly, there is action with regard to coordination of national policies.
We are therefore firmly committed to a single aim in this regard: to simplify management for the scientific community, and for small and medium sized enterprises.
Simplifying, however, also means limiting constraints and accepting a degree of flexibility out of regard for public money and the observations made by the Court of Auditors.
In conclusion, I should like to thank Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
More than two years have passed since that date and the truth of the matter is that we have to admit that no great progress has been made in reaching this objective set by the Heads of State and Government.
This, Mr President, is precisely the reason why the European Parliament has wanted not only to discuss, but also to adopt an own-initiative report in order to add fuel to the debate on the next summit, the second of the Heads of State and Government, which will take place next spring, and present a document that could offer a strategic vision with regard to these relations, in order that the European Union will not arrive at this summit empty handed, at least with regard to the responsibility of our institution.
This strategy, Mr President, in my opinion, should involve three aspects: in the political sphere, a revision and updating of the biregional agenda; secondly, a renewal and updating of political dialogue at ministerial level; and thirdly, the constitution of a transatlantic, Euro-Latin American assembly, through the signing of a Euro-Latin American charter for peace and the implementation of a Euro-Latin American political and security partnership.
In the economic, financial and commercial field, Mr President, we think that the European Union should complete the agreements that are currently under negotiation with Mercosur and Chile.
These agreements need to be concluded in a balanced fashion and, naturally, as quickly as possible, depending on their own merits.
We think that there can be no distinction, at least from the European Union' s point of view, between first- or second-class countries or groups of countries.
For this reason, we are asking the Commission, in the medium term, to put forward some negotiation guidelines with the aim of reaching new agreements with the Andean Community and with the countries in Central America.
In the same respect, Mr President, we are asking for the implementation of a global interregional association agreement that can give institutional support and total geographical coverage in relations with the subcontinent, in order, amongst other things, not to be second rate when compared with the developments that are being made in the United States.
For this reason I think that - in the spirit of the doctrine of the European Union in general and in the spirit previously adopted by this Parliament in the Newens report in particular, we should seek a formula which, within the framework of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, would allow us to progress in order to find an institutional formula in our relations with this country.
In the social and cultural field, Mr President, we are proposing an emphatic and ambitious development cooperation policy in the social, culture, education, emigration, internal affairs and justice fields, with a whole series of concrete initiatives, that I will not explain here right now for lack of time.
Mr President, I believe, and I think that my fellow Members believe the same, that the commitments made at the Rio Summit and the whole strategy formulated around the new commitment with Latin America should take shape as quickly as possible and give a strong impetus to relations with this region, although this should not be done to the detriment of economic sectors and the civil society.
The next summit of Heads of State and Government will have to result, in our opinion, in a palpable success, sending a clear message with regard to this new European commitment with Latin America.
Economic cooperation must include and take account of appropriate social and ecological minimum standards; after all, we do not want to worsen the social inequalities in Latin America but help to defuse them, for these countries are still marked by massive variations in social conditions.
Mr President, the terrorist attacks of 11 September have finally brought it home to us that global crises have global consequences and that the European Union can no longer afford any eurocentrism.
The European Parliament's own-initiative report by Mr Salafranca is therefore timely, coming as it does in advance of the Rio follow-up summit in Madrid in May next year.
What Latin America needs, however, are not only association agreements but general strategies to promote an investment-friendly climate, and this can only be achieved if there is political stability and an end to capital flight.
Mr President, the Salafranca report comes at an opportune moment.
The implementation of a global partnership and common strategy with Latin America, driven by Europe, is something that has always been worthwhile, but now more than ever, since 11 September, when international relations are clearly in a state of upheaval.
We only have to mention the mere existence of Mercosur or Alca or, simply, the different positions we maintain with regard to areas such as the death penalty or the Permanent Court of International Justice.
On occasions, decent trade is not possible without efficient and transparent development cooperation providing the basis for a free, but fair, game.
We should not be surprised, then, that the Salafranca report states firmly that the only way the European Union can establish a genuine, bi-regional strategic partnership is to launch a new joint strategy with force and determination, and that the best time to do so may be precisely at the Madrid Summit in May 2002.
It is also for these reasons that, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, I confirm our full support for this report.
This novelty will be seen in the way the relations between Europe and Latin America are to be organised around three themes: the first is the debate on the rules of the game in the process of globalisation and, particularly, the question of democracy and the reduction of poverty; the second is the question of regional political integration; and the third is the joint management of major environmental crises.
In particular, my group strongly questions the emphasis placed on the commercial dimension of relations between Europe and Latin America, especially the need for them to be subject to the current rules of the World Trade Organisation, rules which are widely challenged not only in Latin America but in Europe too.
Secondly, we do not agree with the a priori positive assessment of the Puebla-Panama plan, which is a plan for large infrastructure works which will have considerable social and environmental impact.
I think that this issue is both important and appropriate, and Parliament is showing us that we are working in real time.
Mr President, the countries of Latin America and the European Union have a cultural basis in common, which greatly facilitates the mutual relations between our peoples.
Despite, however, certain promising prospects opened up by the first EU-Latin America-Caribbean Summit held in Rio de Janeiro in 1999, along the lines of a strategic partnership on an economic, social and ecological level, the concrete results so far achieved have been far from satisfactory.
As we know, the countries of Latin America are confronted with joining the American free trade area, which may happen from 2005 onwards (so we are nearly there!).
Mr President, it seems to me that something is sorely missing from the report we have before us.
Mr President, the establishment of a common strategy between the European Union and Latin America, as decided in Rio de Janeiro in 1999, is a matter of justice that will finally give the appropriate dimension to interregional relationships that have historically been undervalued.
We also consider, however, that we need to give priority to the resolution of development problems in many Latin American countries, where there are 200 million poor people.
The creation of a Euro-Latin American area of peace and stability has to be founded upon the principles of human rights, democracy and the fight against drug trafficking.
In Central America, aid to social development and the fight against poverty have to take precedence over any other initiative, such as the information society.
Cuba is not part of the Cotonu Agreement nor does it have an institutionalised relationship with the European Union.
We think that development potential in Cuba, where, for some time, European companies have been investing, and the situation of its people merit treatment from the European Union that goes much further than the indifference it has shown to this country until now.
The Salafranca report is, generally speaking, very comprehensive and quite ambitious.
I am only going to make one point, relating to paragraph 60, referring to the need for the Commission and the Council to provide adequate funding; and I would like to relate it to the report presented to us yesterday by the President of the Court of Auditors on economic management in the year 2000.
It was not made very clear in the Court of Auditors report whether administrative shortcomings were restricted to those countries receiving Community aid or the Community' s administration itself.
Some time ago the Director of this Directorate-General told me personally, and I am talking about more than ten years ago, that the Directorate did not need more money, but more staff.
This is a continued gross abuse of human rights and, as my own UK ambassador has said, in these troubled times the guerrillas and the paramilitaries are both terrorist groups and should be combated through all means as part of the current anti-terrorist programme.
We feel that particularly due to the killing of the British backpacker Jeremy Parks on 28 October.
Could the Commissioner please tell us in his reply what progress is being made as a result of the pressure that is being applied.
Secondly, we support Commissioner Patten's proposal for a peace laboratory at Magdalena Medio.
I call on the Commissioner now to show how he will introduce control and verification mechanisms so that our European money will achieve progress in the peace process, and not be abused by the paramilitaries to undermine our very aims.
These meetings began in 1996.
Relations between Mercosur and the EU are going through a very important period, since the negotiations for a free trade area have reached their sixth round and are proceeding at a fast pace.
On behalf of the European Parliament, therefore, I welcome this delegation and express this Institution' s support for a profitable outcome to the negotiations.
I should like to express my recognition of the arduous task that he has undertaken, namely to synthesise the different aspects of our relations with Latin America.
The report takes a comprehensive approach to the objectives that should be pursued within the wider scope of our relations and the Commission completely shares this focus.
Many of these issues are addressed in the report and some of them, such as the prevention of conflicts and the fight against terrorism, have just taken on a new meaning.
In the economic, financial and commercial field, I cannot but share your wish that the negotiations in progress with Chile and the Mercosur conclude with success as soon as possible.
We should always take into account the particular characteristics of each region, its level of economic development, the structure of its commerce and the level of regional integration which it has reached.
On the basis of that study we shall be able to decide how to continue developing our economic and commercial relations with those regions.
I should also like to make it clear that the emphasis on social aspects - in particular health, education and the fight against poverty - is a priority for the Commission too.
We are currently promoting a forum for an exchange of ideas between the different actors in civil society on issues relative to social equity, so that its conclusions may be submitted to the Madrid Summit.
Social equity should be central to the dialogue between Heads of State and concrete initiatives in that field ought to come out of this summit.
I am grateful for the support given to Commission initiatives in the fields of education and culture.
I am equally grateful for the support of the rapporteur and this Parliament for the programme aimed at enhancing the participation of Latin America in the information society.
I hope I have made it clear that the Commission shares the majority of the objectives set out in the report and that we very much appreciate the quality and ambitious nature of the proposal it contains.
These allow us to develop a flexible political dialogue which is easily adaptable to current circumstances and priorities.
The vitality of our relations is largely the result of our decision to move forward on the basis of a strategic association built upon a relationship between equals.
I should like to thank Parliament for this valuable contribution.
Finally, I am fully aware that some questions were addressed to Mr Patten.
I am sure he would like to provide written answers to the questions from Mr Medina Ortega in particular, but also to those from other speakers, and I assure Parliament that it will receive a full reply within the next few weeks.
Thank you, Mr Salafranca.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning a temporary defensive mechanism for shipbuilding is extremely important, for shipbuilding is a strategically significant sector in the European Union.
The conclusions of the Industry and Energy Council of 5 December 2000, in accordance with the 1998 Council decision, confirmed the ending of operating aid for shipbuilding from 1 January 2001.
We must recognise that Korea has failed to honour the 2000 agreement in terms of price discipline and subsidies.
These aid measures are to be applicable only until the conclusion of proceedings, that is, until 31 December 2002 at the latest.
We believe that the European Parliament should maintain its position that a dispute settlement procedure should be initiated.
In this respect, Commissioner, I believe that your support for Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 is essential.
We therefore propose that the defensive mechanism should be applicable at least for the duration of the current Regulation on aid to shipbuilding, Regulation 1540/98, which expires on 31 December 2003, or possibly until the conclusion of the WTO proceedings.
The intention is to send out a clear signal against South Korea's dumping policies, which in recent decades have driven European shipbuilding to the brink of collapse by maintaining subsidies and benefits for companies in receivership.
For a year now, we have pursued a policy which aimed to reach agreement with South Korea.
After the vote on Amendment No 130: President.
Unfortunately Mr Fatuzzo, that means that Amendment No 75 falls.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my side has admittedly lost in a key vote, but the process must continue.
Mr President, I wish to endorse Mr Jarzembowski's remarks for another reason.
Amendment No 47 falls. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Report (A5-0359/2001) by Luis Berenguer Fuster, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on insurance mediation (COM(2000) 511 - C5-0484/2000 - 2000/0213(COD)) Before the vote: Mr President, I should like to make a point about the PPE-DE recommended voting list.
There was a mistake in Amendment No 8 as a result of a mistake in the original draft, which has now been corrected.
So Amendment No 8 should be supported by the PPE-DE Group as a recommendation.
Similarly, Amendments Nos 57, 13, 46 and 47 have a mistake in the English language translation which renders it nonsensical.
The word 'by' should be replaced by 'to' in the relevant paragraph (c).
Mr President, this proposed amendment works perfectly well as an addition, and can therefore be voted on as an addition. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) President.
However, it relates to the introduction of gender-neutral language throughout the proposal, and I would ask you to ensure that gender-neutral language is used in the entire research framework programme.
The rest comes later, once we get to other parts of Amendments Nos 332 and 333.
Mr President, I think the rapporteur wants to comment.
Mr Caudron, you are possibly confusing two parts.
We are only voting on the stem cells aspect of this amendment at the moment - section 3 of the amendment.
In principle all the groups agree, but our amendment is a bit rigid on the financial implication.
It says: 'a minimum of 3%' .
Mr President, my reaction will indicate how much work I put into this report.
Although it should be controlled, this market should be open to free competition throughout the EU.
Calling this fundamental principle into question in many Member States, possibly even going as far as constitutional recognition, is detrimental to free choice and, more importantly, to the free organisation of local public services, thus affecting service itself.
Neither users nor the general population can expect to benefit from the privatisation of public services.
Nor will workers in the sector, who are denouncing and fighting privatisation and its devastating effects on employment and working conditions.
This report seeks to improve the Commission' s proposal, which, despite its name, effectively seeks to privatise passenger transport.
We are stating our opposition to any liberalisation of transport, and our support for maintaining the status of transport as a public service, and for cooperation between public companies at European level.
We are against any State aid being allocated to private operators who are not, moreover, prepared to make the necessary investment in infrastructures.
What is more, we are in favour of the immediate re-nationalisation of all the private railway lines and networks in Europe and in favour of the re-nationalisation/municipalisation of urban and local transport.
Report Jarzembowski (A5-0354/2001): Mr President, open access to the port services market and equal opportunities in this field are not only appropriate but also a requirement of the Treaties on which the European Union is founded.
Regulation and control are needed in this particular field to ensure that no State provides financial assistance to its ports, since this is a serious threat to free competition between Community ports.
However, there are certain aspects which should not be exclusively regulated by the EU.
Member States and their constitutional bodies with competencies in this field should maintain their capacity to include their own specific standards for the invitation to tender for contracts for supply of port services and for the protection of workers affected.
Well, in this document, which regulates the organisation of the port, port services and safety, I would like to have found greater commitment and greater financial involvement by the European Union so that all the ports in Europe without distinction, northern European ports and Mediterranean ports, could be financially supported just as our competitors in South Korea do with the shipyards in their country.
On the contrary, we steadfastly support the argument for public port services and ports whose operations are integrated into an overall development plan which develops the potential of each country, supports the economy and employment and guarantees the safety of human life in port and at sea.
First, because it provides a confused response to the fundamental questions of competition between European ports and financial transparency in the allocation of grants to these ports.
But also, and in particular, because the indiscriminate liberalisation of all port services constitutes a dangerous threat to safety, the environment and employment.
To safety, because opening up to competition highly specialised services such as piloting, requiring specific skills adapted to each port, carries the potential risk of seriously jeopardising the safety conditions in which these professions are exercised.
On these two points, the report and the directive contradict the 'maritime safety' and environmental risk reduction reinforcement policy launched by the European Union following the Erika disaster.
Lastly, such liberalisation poses a threat to employment, because opening up port services to competition, in particular those employing the most staff, such as freight handling, carries the risk of plunging the European ports into a dangerous downward spiral with regard to social benefits.
This tendency would be unsustainable in areas that are often vulnerable or in labour market areas that are already severely affected by industrial restructuring.
That is why I voted for all the amendments aiming to exclude port services such as piloting, mooring and freight handling from the scope of the liberalisation proposed by the directive.
To me, voting against this report means first of all rejecting the liberalisation of intra-port services, that is to say going against the obligatory privatisation of handling and mooring services.
I simply cannot comprehend, however, that mooring service providers, who provide an internationally recognised service of general interest by providing indispensable assistance both with regard to prevention in the field of environmental protection and in implementing the best possible level of safety, will from now on be subject to competition.
To me, voting against this report also means rejecting liberalisation between ports, that is to say, rejecting competition between ports, competition which can only have disastrous and harmful effects, with regard to both the quality of services rendered and the working conditions themselves.
The economic logic in favour of users must never take priority over safety in the widest meaning of the word: personal, environmental or material.
Therefore, we consider that this proposal must exclude all services that are of a public service nature according to the standards of each Member State, be they piloting, mooring or other services.
Although the report itself contains some positive references, it retains negative aspects that give some backing to the Commission' s position.
This involves placing the organising bodies, infrastructures and professionals carrying out public service tasks, often in a public context, under the yoke of the market.
Three hundred European Union ports and all port services such as freight handling, piloting, towage, mooring, embarkation and disembarkation services would be affected by this directive.
However, a recent opinion poll confirmed by the success of the European dockers' strike of 6 November shows that these proposals meet with the mass rejection of port service workers.
The proposed European Commission directive to increase competition in port services in the EU threatens to reverse this.
I would like to see private operators exempted from the scope of this directive. . (FR) Mooring services are a general interest service as recognised by the judgment of the Court of Luxembourg of 18 June 1998.
The permanent nature of the service, the professional qualifications of the workers, their knowledge of the specific local features and the essential role played by mooring services in port and maritime safety make this activity an essential determining factor in environmental protection.
The report on market access to port services has caused a great stir in the European Parliament, not least because the European Commission proposal predominantly deals with competition within ports.
The Dutch People' s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) within the ELDR Group wants to guarantee more transparency for government funding and has asked the European Commission to present a proposal to this effect prior to the entry into force of the present directive.
Opinions in my group are divided as to which services should fall within the scope of the directive and which should not.
The VVD backs the rapporteur where he wants to limit the directive to the technical-nautical services.
Cargo handling services are by their very nature land-based and do not belong in this directive.
Furthermore, port authorities and users are required to make relatively sizeable investments in infrastructure and superstructure.
This directive was necessary because port services must be opened up to competition and European ports require European legislation on port services.
I am thinking of piloting and mooring services in particular, since these, for safety reasons, must continue to be governed by the port authorities.
This method of management works very well in France and even if these activities are open to competition in other European countries, I am in favour of their current exclusion from the scope of the directive.
Lastly, I have supported the provisions in favour of greater transparency in financial relations between ports and Member States.
In the name of legal certainty and fair competition between European ports, it must be possible to subject grants paid by national authorities to detailed inspections.
Report Berenguer Fuster (A5-0359/2001): Mr President, I voted for the regulation of insurance mediation.
The directive proposal we have in front of us now allows insurance intermediaries to operate also in other Member States.
The report on the insurance mediation directive, which we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have been working on, is generally satisfactory.
The relationship of Amendment Nos 14 to Amendment Nos 13 and 6 remains unclear, because Amendment No 14 allows for example travel and animal insurances to be totally excluded from the directive, while in other sections intermediaries providing those insurances are excluded from registration liability only.
If further amendments are still allowed, I would like to propose that Amendment Nos 18 and 22 be removed.
Report Caudron (A5-0376/2001): Mr President, what is this subsidiarity that is talked about so much in the European Union?
Subsidiarity, you tell me, Mr President, means that one should act at a European level when that gives the greatest advantage and the greatest benefit to all the citizens of Europe.
As for the budget for the Sixth Framework Programme, this penalises, in financial terms, research units whose work has been judged not to be a priority as it has little potential for profitable use by the private sector in the short or medium term.
The only reason we have voted in favour of this report is that we do not want to prejudice certain research strands supported by the report, which are seeking to make scientific, medical or technological progress, and nor do we want to risk depriving researchers in the public sector of the funding they need.
I am a long-time supporter of research work at European level.
I am also pleased by Parliament' s stated desire to create and develop this interdisciplinary Community area.
The measure included in this report on the mobility of researchers and assistance with returning home will also, I hope, help to compensate for the shortcomings of some governments.
I am also pleased to note the support that is proposed for the development of research into childhood illnesses, a field in which national policies have often failed.
In its proposal in connection with the Sixth Framework Programme, the Commission has identified several important problems and research areas which Europe needs to concentrate on.
There should, however, be two exceptions to this ban: supernumerary embryos and the 64 available cell lines.
That is not the case when it comes to the use of adult stem cells.
Our voting behaviour has proved that this is nonsense.
Report Caudron (A5-0355/2001): Mr President, I was very young, I must have been ten or eleven, when someone gave me a beautifully illustrated Walt Disney book.
Since then I have been in favour of nuclear energy and so I have voted for this document, especially because it promotes study and research into the nuclear sector in Europe, which, in my view, we should increase further.
Mr President, I view the expiry of the Euratom Treaty as an opportunity for Europe to phase out nuclear energy.
Yet today's vote on the Euratom programme has endorsed follow-up funding for nuclear research.
It is high time that the programme's health research agenda was broadened to include more common diseases: most people have had contact, close or otherwise, with diseases such as cancer, degenerative diseases and cardiovascular diseases.
The ethical, legal and social aspects of research issues are increasingly important, if not as important as actual research.
Therefore, by calling for the funding in these areas, the committee is showing an awareness of the importance of these modern-day issues.
The call to allocate money to the information society demonstrates a real commitment to substantiate the Union's stated ambitions laid out at the Lisbon so-called dot-com summit, to make the EU one of the most competitive and dynamic economies in the world.
There is no other option: if the EU wants to become a credible global player in the new economy and the information society, substantive amounts of money should be invested in this domain as soon as possible.
The view adopted by my group was that if cargo handling was not included in the directive, we would vote against it.
It was our group' s intention at the end, during the final vote, to vote in favour and not against, as we did, and I should like to have this minuted.
International situation The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the international situation.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, since the attacks on 11 September the international situation has entered a serious crisis.
I will therefore concentrate on the question of Afghanistan, which lies at the heart of the current crisis, after which I will also discuss the situation in the Middle East.
At its meetings of 21 September and 19 October, the European Council defined the framework of the European Union's action, which comprises two main elements.
The first is solidarity with the United States and support for the actions taken as part of its legitimate defence and in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 1368, on the understanding that these actions must be targeted and endeavour to spare the civilian population.
The EU-Russia Summit of 3 October and the European Conference of 20 October were an opportunity to discuss the action to be taken at international level.
The November meeting of the General Assembly will offer a further opportunity to reinforce this coalition.
In concrete terms, the European Union's strategy towards Afghanistan follows five broad lines: attaching priority to emergency humanitarian aid, the central role of the UN, the quest for a just and lasting internal political settlement, the importance of a reconstruction plan for the country and, lastly, the need to give the stabilisation plan a regional dimension.
It should be noted that the General Affairs Council of 17 October in Luxembourg and the informal summit of 19 October in Ghent clearly approved these five strategy lines.
With regard to emergency humanitarian aid, to date we have mobilised some EUR 320 million to deal with the crisis of the refugees and displaced people and with the effects of the famine.
The main difficulty is access to the people in need, which requires full cooperation from Afghanistan's neighbouring states.
The European Union recognises the United Nations as the sole body with the international legitimacy to seek an internal political solution.
The United Nations will also have a determining role to play in the implementation of a reconstruction plan for the country.
The European Union therefore supports the UN Secretary-General and his representative for Afghanistan in their efforts.
The Council is coordinating its efforts with a view to deciding how best it can contribute to the implementation of this plan.
Regarding the reconstruction plan, in the light of internal political developments in Afghanistan, the European Union believes it is urgently necessary to draw up a reconstruction plan for the country.
With regard to regional strategy, the European Union believes there can be no lasting peace in Afghanistan unless a regional approach is taken.
In other words, Afghanistan's neighbours, together with certain other powers in the region, must be convinced that peace in Afghanistan will also be to their advantage.
Events have speeded up over the last few days with the capture of Mazar-I-Sharif and Kabul.
These events show that the Taliban regime and the terrorist networks are gradually losing control of Afghanistan.
This government will also have to adhere fully to the principles of human rights.
He also pointed out that the United Nations must play a key role in helping the Afghans to form a government.
Moreover, the EU is prepared to help Afghanistan draw up and implement a vast reconstruction plan, a vital guarantee of a return to peace.
This project in no way affects the priority given to emergency humanitarian aid, which the Afghan people now need more urgently than ever.
Finally, the President-in-Office of the European Council stressed the regional dimension of the Afghan issue.
While the Afghans must, of course, themselves decide who will govern in the future, at the same time, all the other countries in the region will have to feel reassured by this new Afghan government.
It is with this in mind that the President of the European Council, accompanied by the President of the Commission, will be visiting India and Pakistan on 23 and 24 November.
The violence and lack of trust between the different parties have prevented a resumption of the political dialogue that should begin with the implementation of the Tenet plan and the Mitchell report recommendations and should conclude with a just and lasting solution to the conflict, based on UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 and the principles set out in Madrid and Oslo.
The Euromed Conference held in Brussels on 5 and 6 November was an opportunity for a wide-ranging exchange of views on the question of the stability and security of the Mediterranean region.
It allowed the participants, amongst other things, to take a further step towards resuming a high-level dialogue that could, eventually, restore the trust that would be needed before negotiations on the final status could resume.
The President of the European Council and the President-in-Office of the Council will be heading for the Middle East again this week.
The European Union will also point out that the quest for a global and lasting peace in the region means taking due account of the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese aspects of the conflict, which must be resolved on the basis of the same principles.
To conclude, as you can see, up to this point the European Union has not stinted its efforts to seek a rapprochement between the various points of view in the Middle East and it will continue along this track for as long as is necessary.
Furthermore, the European Union continues to keep a very close watch over the development of the situation in Afghanistan and throughout the Central Asian region.
The military strategy against the Taliban has proved successful.
Furthermore, we must exploit the new military situation and intensify our humanitarian efforts.
The Commission is playing an active role on both these fronts.
The Commission will cooperate closely with the World Bank and the other parties involved with a view to evaluating the needs and contributing to the reconstruction work in Afghanistan.
Meanwhile, we are trying to ensure that the EUR 52 million in aid allocated under the ECHO programme for 2001 and the EUR 22.5 million earmarked in 2001 for displaced persons will indeed reach those who need it.
In addition, thanks to the World Food Programme, we are now providing EUR 23.5 million in food aid, that is, about 36 300 tonnes, and we are granting the NGOs EUR 4.5 million for supplying the population with food, seeds and tools, that is, a total of EUR 100 million in aid this year.
Furthermore, we have already decided, at the very least, to maintain these levels in 2002.
As you also know, in the space of a few days we presented new measures to combat terrorism in Europe and, in particular, proposed a common definition of acts of terrorism, a European arrest warrant to replace the cumbersome extradition system now in force between the Member States, more stringent rules on money laundering and, lastly, legislative provisions to ensure that the assets of an individual or an organisation can be quickly frozen throughout Europe as soon as they are identified as a potential source of finance for terrorism.
At the same time, the European ministers jointly decided that the Member States should try to protect the airlines from the worst consequences of 11 September, for instance, by giving them insurance cover against acts of terrorism, something the commercial insurance companies were no longer offering, while avoiding a war of subsidies, which would distort competition.
The European Union is also distributing massive humanitarian aid both within and outside Afghanistan.
The Union and its Member States have already mobilised EUR 310 million to alleviate the sufferings of the Afghan people.
Wherever they went, the message they heard was the same: mankind as a whole must unite in the fight against terrorism.
Furthermore, we will be putting forward proposals on the conclusion of a trade and cooperation agreement with Iran.
Each country, each institution, draws on its own assets and pools its own resources for the sake of the common cause.
The action the individual Member States decide to take underpins the common effort, and vice versa.
The fact that the Member States take independent measures, especially in times of crisis, is not a sign of failure on the part of the Union.
In conclusion, let me tell you, on behalf of the Commission, that we are all aware that the events of 11 September have changed the parameters and we have recognised that the attacks on New York and Washington were attacks not only on the United States but also on every free and open society.
The European Union, and the European Commission in particular, are making their full contribution to this common objective and we intend to continue along these lines.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday, an aeroplane crashed over New York, and once again, we all held our breath because we were afraid that it was another terrorist attack.
I welcome your comments, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
However, what we also need, and the European Union must play a key role here, is an alliance, a coalition for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
First of all, there was a tripartite meeting during the informal summit in Ghent, and then there was the meeting in London.
We will support the Council Presidency if it responds in this way, and we will also support the Commission.
Mr Busquin, I call upon the Commission, its President and all its members: please make Europe's voice heard!
The Commission must get involved; it must state its opinion, and it must not simply accept what we have witnessed in recent weeks and months.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, little more than two months after the attacks of 11 September, we have all understood, including the United States, that, in order to confront global terrorism, we need to create a policy with many dimensions: military, security, intelligence, humanitarian, I would add cultural, and others.
The European Union must continue to cooperate in terms of humanitarian aid and cooperate with the UNHCR in order to deal with the problem of the refugees and displaced persons, and also so that, under the auspices of the United Nations, there is a plan for stability and future democracy in Afghanistan.
Secondly, we must continue to intensify our action, so that the European Union can respond to terrorism.
Thirdly, we note that we lack the capacity to act jointly in a military sense.
We, in Parliament, must therefore decisively support the work of our representatives, both here and in the Middle East.
Madam President, the war in Afghanistan is clearly now producing military dividends, as has been seen in the past 48 hours in the extraordinary scale and speed of the collapse of the Taliban, although they still remain potentially very powerful in large parts of the country and the terrorists they have been succouring remain hidden from view.
However there are aspects of the war and not just the terrorist aspect which have been kept hidden and one group I should like to mention - to which, Madam President, you paid tribute on Monday - is the journalists who paid the ultimate price to tell us the story.
The international coalition - particularly the United States and not least its President - has assumed that the Northern Alliance is in some ways biddable, that it will do certain things and not others.
It seems to me that it is not quite so biddable as many in the coalition suggested or hoped.
It becomes more urgent because new freedoms are emerging even as I speak, as we can see in the television pictures from Kabul.
Unfortunately Europe's contribution is often unremarked in these situations, and we have to have a visible presence on the ground and show our solidarity, not just in the military campaign but also in the humanitarian effort.
My group is strongly in favour of it and welcomed the moves in that direction.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I shall confine my contribution to Afghanistan.
My group is concerned that finding a political solution could be frustrated or perhaps even made impossible if the Northern Alliance continues to advance southwards.
What does worry me is the fact that the agenda of London also featured the Middle East policy.
I would ask you, among others, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, whether Middle East policy is drafted in London or in Brussels.
The way women are treated in some of the provinces under its control gives real cause for concern.
Furthermore, its past conduct, only five years ago, and the disturbing information we have received from Mazar-i-Sharif unfortunately suggest that there is a risk that sooner or later they will embark on a bloody settling of scores in the reconquered territories.
The UN estimates that seven and a half million people are at risk of famine in this devastated country.
What the country does need, however, is emergency aid and development aid on a large scale.
To date, we have certainly not achieved this just and ambitious aim and any failure to find a political solution to the Afghan problem would only take us further from attaining it.
Madam President, there is a taboo word that I have not heard mentioned in this hour of debate and which I do not hear in the negotiation meetings held in Rome or Peshawar, in Islamabad or New York.
The United Nations Secretary General hopes for an ethnically balanced transitional government.
I know very well how I felt when faced by those smiles in ' 97 and ' 98, when this Parliament and the Commission were, to my knowledge, the only institutions that supported the campaign 'A flower for the women of Kabul' in 1997.
Therefore on 24 November we are promoting a day of fasting throughout the world, a world satyagraha, precisely so that women can at last form a part of this provisional government.
The human side, people are the architects of their futures.
Therefore: 24 November, world satyagraha day, so that women can form part of this provisional government.
All that Massoud asked of the international community and the European Union was to exercise effective diplomatic pressure on Pakistan to stop it from interfering in any way in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan.
The speed of events over the past 48 hours has surprised only those of our learned experts who, without ever having been on the ground, professed that the anti-Taliban Alliance was made up only of a bunch of warlords who were just as barbaric as the Taliban themselves, and even more dangerous because inspired only by a hunger for power that would inevitably trigger new quarrels among themselves.
Madam President, Afghanistan is currently going through a time of uncertainty that will prove crucial for the future.
The European Union must adopt a strong and clear stance for, as Mrs Emma Bonino and Mr Francis Wurtz said, Afghan women must not be sacrificed in the process of political reconstruction.
The European Union could not endorse a proposed government that did not take account of this crucial dimension.
The Afghans must be represented by a mixed, democratic government that represents all the ethnic groups and respects human rights.
Madam President, recent events have demonstrated to the world that the military strategy being pursued by the American government in Afghanistan is working.
They are a military force to be reckoned with and they have extensive military experience.
I hope that the Taliban regime can be defeated and replaced by a broader alliance of political groupings in Afghanistan.
Under UN Resolution 1373 it is incumbent on us all to ensure that those involved in perpetrating such vile acts of terrorism in America last September are brought to justice.
We too must prevent further terrorist attacks, and this can only be achieved if the international community continues to work closely together.
One issue which clearly needs to be addressed in the context of the war in Afghanistan relates to the humanitarian needs of the Afghan people.
The international community, under the auspices of the United Nations and through the European Union, must bring forward a visible and viable strategy to guarantee that humanitarian supplies are delivered to the Afghan people.
There must be a safe and consistent delivery of humanitarian aid to those in need.
This can only be carried out with the involvement of the international community and key non-governmental organisations.
In time the United Nations and the European Union should be given positive roles as new political structures develop in Afghanistan.
In conclusion, it is very important that we reiterate the message that the war against terrorism is not a battle against Islam.
There are millions of Muslims living within the Union who are fully integrated within our societies and who contribute positively to the development of the European Union.
It has also been shown that this is not merely a matter of hunting down terrorists, but also liberating a nation from a government which is far from popular among its own people.
Here, the European Union must take an active role with its conflict prevention and civilian crisis management capacities and help organise the reconstruction of the country on this basis, as long as this is what the parties involved want.
In more general terms, the events of recent weeks have shown that in the areas where the European Union functions effectively, it can make a significant contribution.
I also think that this must, to a substantial extent, be discussed in the light of Laeken and in the context of the post-Nice process.
I am thinking in particular of the frequent organisational chaos in the Balkans and the competition not only between Solana and Patten but also between the parallel structures which were established and which, as experience has shown, work against and not with each other.
First of all, I should like to say that, unfortunately, the objective of the fight against international terrorism has not been achieved with the fall of Kabul nor will it be by a possible fall of Kandahar soon.
A multi-ethnic government is logical, but we must also manage to find a special solution for Kabul, of course.
The refugees must be able to return home and a massive amount of money must be invested in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
The causes can be found indirectly in the Middle East.
I therefore believe that the Middle East peace process needs an extra boost and I also wonder whether the time has come to do this now.
As our President has already pointed out, I also believe it is useful and necessary to help the young Assad to play the far more positive role which we had all expected of him, but which, through all kinds of circumstances, he was unable to fulfil.
If we as the EU want to play a part, also in the peace process as a whole, we must be careful what action we undertake, for example, in connection with the arms sales or the supply of goods for dual use to Iran.
I know that Europe has two obligations towards Afghanistan.
Together with the UN, we must press for a political settlement of the conflict, aimed, as Guy Verhofstadt said, at the establishment of a stable, legitimate and democratic government that is very broadly representative of all the ethnic groups and abides by the principles of human rights.
We know that the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is a tragedy.
It is the result of the combined effect of a war that has been devastating this country for 23 years and the drought that has plagued it for the past three years.
We know that seven million people were dependent on humanitarian aid even before the military operations began.
In the framework of what we hope will become a process of permanent consultation between the European Union, the United States, Afghanistan's neighbouring states, the specialist UN agencies and the NGOs working in Afghanistan, we call, as you, Madam President, have also done on several occasions, for the creation of safe humanitarian corridors through which emergency food aid and shelter for the displaced Afghans can be brought in.
Madam President, I will reply or, at least, try to give some kind of reply to the comments made during this debate, which is all the more interesting because it is being held at a moment when we have very high hopes while at the same time having little idea of what the outcome will be.
In regard to the London meeting, let me also point out that the presidency was invited to that meeting but as I said, the meeting was not held at its initiative.
Allow me to repeat that the European Union obviously plays a diplomatic and political role but also a humanitarian one - and I am saying this not just by the way but as a definite statement.
It is indeed important, over and above the action to be taken, for people to know and see that the European Union wants to play and will play a role in this respect.
That is what I have to say on London, Ghent and these matters.
The Belgian Presidency is convinced of this and I really hope this question will be on the agenda of the Laeken Summit.
As many speakers have also shown, it is a priority at a time when winter is approaching and the people are in danger.
Let me repeat that the amount for 2001 is EUR 100 million, channelled via the World Food Organisation and the non-governmental organisations.
The debate is closed.
Negotiations within the framework of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention following the recent anthrax attacks The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the negotiations within the framework of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention following the recent anthrax attacks.
The attacks of 11 September have only strengthened our conviction that multilateral instruments for disarmament and non-proliferation are more crucial than ever.
Everything possible must be done to prevent terrorist organisations and their members having access to more powerful means with which to carry out their criminal activities.
The fight against biological weapons must, in this context, be pursued at a more sustained pace, particularly given the threat of potential bioterrorist attacks.
The Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention is a crucial instrument in this process.
The European Union will be launching, with regard to the Fifth Review Conference on the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention that will take place in Geneva from 19 November to 7 December 2001, a new call to those States that have not yet signed up to the Convention banning biological and toxin weapons, to ratify this as soon as possible.
The Council, therefore, attaches the greatest importance to concluding the negotiations that have taken place in Geneva, within the ad hoc group, on a legally binding protocol establishing an effective system that will ensure compliance with the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention.
The Union has, in fact, expressed its disappointment at the United States' refusal to accept the synthesis text presented by the chairman of the special group.
The Council is, therefore, maintaining its position.
The threat biological weapons pose requires an appropriate multilateral response.
The Council will continue to emphasise the importance it attaches to the work that must lead to a legally binding instrument and, in particular, to maintaining the special group.
The Union reserves the right to also formulate its own proposals.
Lastly, the Union hopes that the gains made in the negotiations are preserved and that the Review Conference is able to take decisions that offer prospects for a rapid renewal of negotiations within the multilateral framework of the Convention, with the participation of all States involved.
I simply wish to confirm that the European Union has, for its part, always been strongly in favour of the compromise text, convinced that it is as important as the agreements on the non-proliferation of weapons, provided that these are accompanied by effective verification measures.
It is, therefore, unlikely that a resolution will be produced before 19 November, but regular contacts are being maintained between the United States and the European Union on this matter.
The United States take the view, furthermore, that the events of 11 September and those that have followed do not change their position on the verification protocol drawn up by the ad-hoc group.
The United States is in the process of drafting new proposals for protection measures against the risk of a biological attack, insisting on the need to defend itself against the risk of terrorism.
The European Union considers that some of the United States' proposals are to be welcomed.
Nevertheless, it also wishes to add others that are intended to improve the Convention and to encourage the development in the longer term of an instrument that is truly binding under law, but that is the very nub of the problem.
The Union will also be proposing a mechanism that will enable us to pursue regular dialogue on the Convention and will open this up to all parties concerned.
These measures will certainly be part of the discussions at the Fifth Review Conference.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that proverbs are the expression of the wisdom of nations and, according to a French proverb, every cloud has a silver lining.
The appalling disaster of the World Trade Center and the launch by a few madmen of a campaign of anthrax poisoning can at least be credited with waking up public opinion and, through public opinion, waking political leaders, making them more aware of the dangers of the development of an international form of terrorism that is bent on imposing its view of the world by all means possible.
In this regard, one only has to think of the recent sabre rattling by Osama Bin Laden.
I hope, however, that following his imminent fall, the international community will pursue its action to control and ban biological and chemical weapons in order to eliminate the terrible threat that they pose.
We are pleased to see the change in the attitude of the American government which, in July, withdrew from negotiations on concluding a protocol to implement the Convention, as you have just reminded us, Commissioner, and we hope that the new conference that is due to take place next week in Geneva, which you informed us about, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, will consequently take place under the best possible auspices.
Mr President, earlier this year we expressed our disappointment at the lack of support from the United States for the reinforcement of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention.
In the wake of the events of 11 September and the anthrax attacks on the United States, the issue of bio-terror has suddenly become very topical.
These weapons have been banned for a very long time, but are unfortunately still available.
They have a problem which they are unable to solve on their own.
Many countries take measures in order to protect themselves against anthrax or smallpox better.
I would call on the EU and the EU Member States not only to consider the possible protection of its own citizens, but also to examine whether developing countries can be helped by setting up programmes to protect the people in the event of possible terrorist attacks involving biological weapons.
Mr President, my group, the Liberal Group, wants to make three points, largely in the form of questions.
First of all - and this point will appear in the compromise resolution which is not yet in print but it is certainly in our own resolution - my colleague, Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, points out that the United Nations is extremely slow, or has been in the past, to respond when there are reports of breaches of use of these weapons.
Secondly - and this appears in the Liberal Group's resolution and also in the compromise resolution - the anthrax problem in the United States has drawn all our attention to the need to react quickly and to analyse what is happening.
The European Parliament adopted a resolution on 14 June to back the approval of this Protocol.
However, we are convinced that an outright ban should apply to both the manufacture and the use of chemical and biological weapons by the international community, and that this ban should be legally binding.
Be that as it may, following the awful events in New York and the anthrax attacks in the United States, we need to get back to the concept of monitoring and applying this treaty as quickly as possible, come what may.
I think that we should adopt it and that the European Union should include this issue in the debate.
The possible use of military technology and biological and chemical weapons by subversive groups is no longer a remote risk but a real civil defence problem.
In view of the fact that some nations have not signed up to the Geneva Convention on chemical and biological weapons, as we have heard, and have continued to develop these technologies of warfare, we appeal to the United States and the republics of the former Soviet Union, as well as all those states that have not taken part or signed up, to provide the international community with detailed information on the biological and chemical agents they know about which could, in some way, be traced or stolen by terrorist groups.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is an historic tragedy that the country which has refused to adopt truly effective controls on the use of biological and toxic weapons was the first to fall victim to these brutal attacks.
However, I believe that this sign of isolationism and unilateralism, which is still very strong in America, must be viewed by the European Union, and in particular by the Council, as an opportunity to lobby the US very hard, not only on this issue but also on the International Criminal Court, for effective international agreements and monitoring arrangements in the wake of these dreadful attacks.
If we do not want proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, in this area, for example, a clearer signal must be sent out by the European Union and its partners.
In this regard, I would say that in the field of research itself, and, therefore, of the potential for knowledge in this area, we are planning a meeting dedicated to this issue, on 13 December, in Brussels, of all experts from the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Furthermore, it could represent an invitation or a stimulus to the Koreans to extend their unfair practices to other sectors of economic activity such as automobiles, electronics and steel.
Of course, this invitation may not only extend to Korea itself but also to other countries, principally in that region.
Solidarity therefore demands measures in defence of a sector which is also strategic for Europe; measures which impose the extension of the scope of the defensive support mechanism to all categories of ship built by the Korean shipyards and which also impose an extension of the period the defensive mechanism is in force until 31 December 2003, which is also the period in force of Regulation (EC) 1540/98 or, alternatively, until the WTO procedure against Korea is concluded.
These are the reasons given by the companies and workers in the sector in the parts of Europe where shipbuilding is important.
That does not mean that I do not recognise that some of this public aid makes sense and must continue if it contributes to the objectives laid down in the Treaty.
Despite this, and precisely because this is one of those cases, I would like to express my total support for the Commission' s proposal and the amendments presented by the competent committees, which propose a defensive and temporary mechanism in the ship-building sector in order to confront the unfair practices of South Korea.
Furthermore, the amendments approved by the competent committee are acceptable, since they include certain types of ship which are also affected by these unfair practices on the part of Korea.
The rapporteur has been informed of the existence of a possible legal report by the services of the Council which opposes these measures proposed by the Commission.
It is unacceptable that we, as a Parliament, do not have access to the same information as the Council.
The Commission says that the regulation will not have any negative effect on third countries.
The Commission also says that the proposed regulation cannot be regarded as biased action by the EU against South Korea, something that would be contrary to the WTO regulations.
I very much hope that the Commission will answer these questions.
Mr President, for years European shipyards have been condemning the dumping practised by South Korea in relation to the sales prices of the ships built there.
We believe that it should also include special ships for the transportation of gases derived from oil and liquefied natural gas, as well as ferries, bulk carriers and roll-on roll-off car ferries, all of which are included in the complaints presented to the WTO.
Although the Commission proposal is important for the moment, it is only temporary and partial, and in the end, is on the same level as Korean unfair practices.
The granting of subsidies to the shipbuilding industry is both unnecessary and undesirable.
It is unnecessary because shipbuilding in Europe focuses on the construction of technologically advanced ships and not on the simple conveyer-belt production as is the case in low-wage countries.
It therefore offers not a single solution to the problems in the industry.
Structural solutions to the problems European shipbuilding is facing lie in healthy competition and structural reforms.
The internal market will be disrupted since the Member States will step in to implement the Regulation, and non-generic support will lead to unfair competition.
With this proposal, Europe places itself in an untenable position.
Mr President, colleagues, honourable Member of the Commission, the European Union and South Korea have been conducting so far fruitless negotiations in order to bring about sound competition into the world shipbuilding market.
According to the Commission proposal for a regulation, any arrangements for subsidies would be exceptional and temporary measures and would concern a limited number of ship types only.
At first glance the Commission proposal may seem justified, but in reality it distorts competition both in the world market and even within the EU and lacks any valid legitimate reason.
The link between the subsidy mechanism and the WTO procedure is totally artificial.
I said that the Commission proposal distorts competition also inside the EU.
We are also aware that Korea continues to set prices below cost, that the Korean authorities provide their shipyards with subsidies, both direct and indirect, that bankrupt shipyards are kept operational, that South Korea' s production capacity increased by 170% between 1988 and 1997, whereas, during the same period, European production fell by 30%.
The WTO procedure will probably last three years.
In the seventies, Sweden was the world' s second largest shipbuilding nation after Japan.
When competition increased from countries such as Portugal, Japan and South Korea, the Swedish state invested a total of EUR 2 billion in an attempt to rescue the shipbuilding industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, I will get straight to the point.
At present, the Commission has instituted proceedings against the Schelde-Damen construction, that is to say, Damen, has taken over the company Schelde for 1 Guilder.
The Communist Party of Greece takes the view that the only viable solution is to create a single publicly-owned agency which can withstand international competition and benefit employment and the economy.
And recently, a twin course of action has been decided upon: firstly, to take the case to the WTO and, secondly, to establish the defensive, selective and temporary mechanism which we are discussing.
That he extend this temporary and defensive measure until 2003.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission for proposing a regulation for the shipbuilding industry which may be temporary and segmented but which somehow, once again, helps minimise the effects of protectionism, which exists in various trading blocs around the world and not just in Korea.
It is often the only activity that generates development in these regions, and so the disappearance of this activity would be a social tragedy for certain regions, particularly in my country, in Spain and in Greece.
But while we hope that the Commission will implement this regulation at least by 2003, we hope for a lot more for the future and a different attitude towards the sector.
The reintroduction of extensive State aid within the EU would scarcely increase the prospects of solving the dispute with South Korea.
I also wish to take this opportunity to explain to Parliament the Commission's position on this report.
I stress that operating aid is a particularly distorting form of aid, because it provides no incentive to improve efficiency and delivers no benefit in terms of competitiveness of the yards by, for example, encouraging training or research development.
For those reasons and after many years of operating aid being granted to the shipbuilding industry, the Commission finally decided to prohibit it as from the end of last year.
So, firstly, on the extension of the scope: the amendments proposed in the report would considerably widen the scope of the mechanism, which covers only those market segments that the Commission has identified, in its report on the trade barriers regulation, as having already been considerably injured by unfair Korean practices.
Any enlargement of the scope would risk changing the nature of the proposal.
I would like to draw Members' attention to Article 2(6) of the proposal, which provides that the Commission will keep under review the market segments eligible for aid in the light of evidence clearly proving that a specific market segment within the Community has been directly injured by unfair and opaque competitive conditions.
The information that has been specified in Article (2)(a) of the Commission's proposal is the minimum necessary to allow third parties to submit useful comments to the Commission and to ensure the effectiveness of the transparency procedure.
Thirdly, there is the extension of the expiry date until 31 December 2003.
It would be a timely opportunity to take stock of the situation and to reassess whether special measures for shipbuilding are still considered necessary.
In the Commission's view the proposal on a temporary defensive mechanism is fully compatible with WTO law subsidies, provided they are not prohibitive, are not drawn to cause so-called adverse effects and are legitimate national policy instruments as far as the WTO is concerned.
Therefore the European Community has the right to grant aid to its shipbuilders.
In fact the EC has been granting such aid to its shipbuilding industry for many years, up to 31 December 2000.
Another matter I would like to draw attention to is the absence of the Council.
I do understand your concern, Mrs Kauppi, but I must tell you that Council Question Time is also set on our agenda for a very precise time, which is 5.30 p.m.
We have two or three minutes left before 5.30 p.m.
The second question has been withdrawn.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Council would like to reiterate that the Cardiff process has led six Council formations to present strategies to the European Council that seek to integrate the environment into their policies.
These strategies concerned the transport, energy, agriculture, industry, internal market and development cooperation sectors.
The General Affairs, ECOFIN and Fisheries Councils plan to present the three latest relevant strategies to the Barcelona European Council in the spring of 2002.
In addition to the Cardiff process, we must highlight the Lisbon process, which integrates the 1997 Luxembourg social process on employment with the 1999 Cologne macro-economic process, which was given a third dimension in Gothenburg, an environmental dimension, made up of the strategy for sustainable development, which also seeks to achieve integration of the environment into sectoral policies.
The European Union will present all this to the Global Summit on Sustainable Development which, as you know, will be held in Johannesburg in September 2002.
By creating this strategy on sustainable development, the European Council has given priority, in terms of the environment, to climate change, to ecologically viable methods of transport, to the responsible management of natural resources and, lastly, to the management of risks to public health.
Whilst continuing to function independently, the Cardiff process has been assessed and monitored since its launch in 1998, with results which are now integrated into the enlarged framework of the Lisbon process.
The implementation of the strategy on sustainable development must, as decided at Gothenburg, be based on four points.
The first point is an annual synthesis report by the Commission, which will now concern the three dimensions of the Lisbon process, including the strategy on sustainable development.
A report of the same kind will also have to be presented to the Barcelona European Council.
The third point concerns structural indicators on sustainable development which will be, on the basis of a Commission communication, endorsed by the Council before being submitted to the Laeken European Council.
The fourth and final point is a Commission communication on better regulation, which will mean that all the major proposals from this institution will be assessed beforehand for their effects on the strategy on sustainable development, including integration of the environmental dimension.
I wonder whether the presidency is trying to open the discussion up, increase the transparency of the process and perhaps involve other organisations such as NGOs in the development of strategies.
I have taken careful note of your suggestion, of your request to increase transparency and the involvement of all those who are helping to draw up strategies on sustainable development in the field.
I do hope that in showing transparency, the Council will also be able to integrate the results that you mention in order to ensure that these indicators on sustainable development, which are being prepared and are due to be submitted to the Laeken European Council, can, as part of the process and in the run-up to Barcelona, be improved from the point of view of both transparency and their repercussions or in terms of taking into account the views of all those who are working specifically in the field in the area of sustainable development.
Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cardiff process is essential for sustainable development.
Mr President, your concern regarding both transparency and correspondence or coherence between, firstly, the outcome of the Doha Summit, the final details of which we are awaiting, and, secondly, the strategies on sustainable development, is extremely interesting.
I therefore feel that the correspondence between the two parts, what was achieved within a wider forum and what was achieved or is in the process of being achieved at European Union level and, in particular, what must be achieved at the Laeken and Barcelona Councils, should be coherent and should be the milestones of a structural position, that is specific and conducive to the integration of sustainable development in all the policies implemented at Council and European Union level in general.
Question No 4 by (H-0781/01): Subject: Landing of large numbers of illegal immigrants in the Canary Islands What measures does the Council intend to put forward to guarantee the integrity of Community waters around the Canary Islands, given the recent reports that motherships are being used to land large numbers of illegal immigrants from Africa on the Canaries?
Mr President, the Council has already responded, on several occasions, to the questions from Members of the European Parliament on illegal immigration by sea from the African continent.
In particular, I refer to the answers to oral questions H-2701, H-0330/01 and H-0699/01 on illegal immigration in the European Union, and to the answers to written questions E-0085/01 and E-1045/01, which also tackled these problems.
The Council has already taken several measures to combat illegal immigration.
The current situation in the Canary Islands amounts to a genuine invasion.
A week ago, the Mayor of the city of Las Palmas in Gran Canaria sent two hundred immigrants to Madrid with one-way tickets.
Question No 5 by , which has been taken over by Mr Ortuondo Larrea (H-0783/01): Subject: Reference to nationalism in the conclusions of the European Council meeting of 21 September 2001 Following the horrific terrorist attacks which took place on 11 September and their tragic consequences, people in the United States reacted strongly, with clear expressions of nationalism or patriotism based on the democratic and moral values which underpin North American society.
In this case, it is also beneficial to highlight that, in its conclusions of 21 September 2001, the European Council emphasises the need to combat any nationalist, racist or xenophobic drift.
The term 'nationalism' does not actually appear in the text.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the European Council has been able to differentiate between Arab and Muslim religion and society, on the one hand, and fanatical Islamic terrorist groups on the other.
This is also the case in the area of political action, where democratic political actions benefit democracy as a whole and the freedom of expression.
It is a great mistake to say that there are some ends that tend to attract terrorism and therefore to attack those ends in themselves.
It is absurd to believe that if the end is noble any means can be justified.
Question No 6 by (H-0784/01): Subject: Illegal immigration into Greece from Turkey - breach of accession partnership There has been an enormous upsurge in illegal immigration into Greece from Turkey, with thousands of clandestine immigrants reaching Greek shores aboard Turkish smugglers' boats.
The Turkish authorities make no attempt to prevent such immigration, which is in breach of the accession partnership, while the measures taken by the Greek authorities are inadequate to stem the constant flood of illegal immigrants on to Greek territory and, by extension, into the EU.
In response to Mr Trakatellis' question, the Council has often expressed its concern regarding illegal immigration and also refers in this connection to the conclusions of the Tampere, Santa Maria de Feira and Nice European Councils, for example.
The Council reiterates that the Helsinki European Council decided to consider Turkey as a candidate country which aims to join the European Union on the basis of the same criteria as those that are applied to the other candidate countries.
The Council formally adopted the accession partnership with Turkey on 8 March 2000.
Under this accession partnership, Turkey adopted a national programme for adopting the acquis, which sets out the framework for the policy to be pursued and the timetable of legislative work, as well as the budgetary and administrative requirements that are necessary in order for Turkey to adopt the Community acquis.
In line with the practice established for all candidate countries, the Commission will assess Turkey' s national programme for adopting the acquis in the 2001 regular report on the basis of the accession partnership.
The European Union will closely monitor the implementation of the various measures announced as part of this framework.
The national programme on the acquis contains various measures in the area of justice and home affairs.
The Council again stated its concern given the enormous influx of illegal immigrants from Turkey into Greece or transiting through Greece.
The European Union asked Turkey to implement appropriate measures as laid out in the European Union report of November 2000.
The Council also engaged in active dialogue with countries that produce asylum seekers and/or illegal immigrants within the framework of the High Level Asylum and Immigration group.
As I said earlier in my reply to the question by another Member regarding the Canary Islands, this group, set up by the Council in December 1998, has the task of drawing up action plans for specific countries.
One of the countries chosen for this action plan is Iraq, since it is a country that produces immigrants and which immigrants transit through.
Because of its geographical situation, Turkey is obviously an important country of transit.
As part of the action plan for Iraq, the Council has already launched a dialogue with Turkey in order to implement the European Union action plan concerning Iraq of 26 January 1998.
One of the measures under the action plan is to negotiate a transit agreement with Turkey.
Mr President, it is, of course, not up to the Council to comment on the statements made by Mr Berlusconi.
The European Council, issuing an appeal to the international community to pursue, in all multilateral fora, dialogue and negotiation with a view to building, in Europe and elsewhere, a world of peace, law and tolerance, also emphasised the need to combat any racist and xenophobic drift and to reject any equation of terrorism with the Arab or Muslim world.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, my question touched on two issues.
I stand by the actions and the positions of the Council, which were adopted on 21 September and which I believe give a clear indication of the European Council' s point of view, regarding its determination to reject any equation of this sort.
It is not for the Council to comment or issue an opinion on the statements made by Mr Berlusconi either.
At an extraordinary session on 20 September 2001, organised in response to the events of 11 September, the Justice, Home Affairs and Civil Protection Council held a wide debate on measures to be taken as part of the fight against international terrorism.
The Council would very much appreciate Parliament' s issuing an opinion on this new proposal as soon as possible.
I think that it is important for Parliament, as I suggested, to issue an opinion on this proposal as soon as possible so that we can then forge ahead.
Question No 9 by (H-0795/01): Subject: Age discrimination Does the Council propose to change its current policy of discriminating against job applicants aged 45 and over in the light of the European Ombudsman's current investigation into whether such age discrimination amounts to maladministration?
The Council does not consider that setting an age limit of 45 years for the recruitment of civil servants at the starting grade constitutes discrimination in itself, because the difference in treatment established by this limit, on the one hand, is in line with the Treaty on establishing the European Community as well as the civil servants' statute and, on the other, is based on objective reasons, particularly relating to the concept of a career, which is at the heart of Community work.
The age limit is also raised in some other cases, in order to meet specific recruitment requirements due to the staff needs or the new requirements of an institution.
The Council' s General Secretariat would not deprive itself of the experience of an older candidate if this experience was indispensable, but it must also ensure that younger staff are recruited to fulfil the permanent tasks of the institution, such as translation or administration.
Lastly, you drew attention to the fact that the process to undertake administrative reform and strengthen inter-institutional cooperation that is underway intends to establish an inter-institutional recruitment office.
The question regarding age limit has not been touched upon during the preparatory work carried out to establish this office.
My immediate reaction was that, while on the one hand we are trying to encourage fairer treatment of older workers, yet, on the other hand, in one of our own EU institutions - and from what the minister said in more than one - we are discriminating against those aged 45 and over.
It is a sad state of affairs when those aged 45 are not considered for employment.
The base age has been raised by six years.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 10 and 11 will be taken together.
Question No 11 by (H-0825/01): Subject: Wave of Afghan refugees at the gates of Europe For a number of years, Turkey has been one of the main points of entry into Europe for economic migrants and political refugees.
Furthermore, the Council restated the European Union' s determination to support, when required, a political process launched in Afghanistan, with the support of the United Nations, and to contribute to the reconstruction, modernisation, development and opening up of the country.
The Council is in favour of opening humanitarian corridors but it stresses that this requires the cooperation of the forces in control of the situation on the ground.
In this context, the Council deeply regrets that the Taliban regime has, on several occasions, obstructed the delivery of humanitarian aid, harassed NGOs, destroyed humanitarian buildings, refused to cooperate with international institutions and, very recently, demanded that convoys, trying to deliver humanitarian aid to the needy Afghan people, pay road tolls.
Given the current situation in Afghanistan, it is obviously difficult to ensure that any measure can be totally efficient.
However, you will no doubt be aware that the European Union, whilst fully supportive of the efforts undertaken to eradicate terrorism in the wake of the attacks of 11 September, is taking an active part in the humanitarian operation designed to assist the displaced people in the region.
From this perspective, the Commission has recently requested Member States to provide, on a fortnightly basis to Eurostat, statistical data on asylum requests and illegal entries of Afghan citizens.
And, in relation to this, I would like to say that the Council bodies are currently examining a proposal for a directive to set minimum standards for conditions in reception centres for asylum seekers in the Member States.
Lastly, with regard to relations with Turkey, I reiterate that regular meetings take place between the Council bodies and Turkey, as part of the implementation of the action plan for Iraq drawn up by the High Level Asylum and Immigration Group, as I also explained in answer to a previous question.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your reply.
I would like to reiterate what I said in my first answer to the joint question regarding the early application of the directive.
As for the other points, as far as the delivery of humanitarian aid is concerned, this is basically a matter for the Commission and, since this is the case, it is difficult for the Council to take a position on this subject.
Question No 12 by (H-0797/01): Subject: Death sentence for 16 Afghans for converting to another religion In Afghanistan, a prosecutor has brought 16 Afghans before a court in Kabul demanding that they be sentenced to death.
In a trial taking place at the same time in Kabul, eight aid workers with Shelter Now International have been charged with carrying out Christian missionary work.
In a previous answer I received in the Chamber, the Commission stated that the three countries had said the European Union therefore does not need to become involved in the case.
The Council shares your concerns about the citizens of Afghanistan and foreign aid workers who are accused by the Taliban of religion conversion and preaching, and who are therefore facing the very serious threat of the death penalty.
The promotion and the respect of fundamental human rights, including the freedom of religion and belief, are an essential part of European Union policy on third countries and are, thus, included in the common position of the European Union on Afghanistan.
The main international legal instruments ensure that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
This right covers the freedom to change religion or belief and the freedom to express, alone or collectively, in public or in private, one' s religion or belief.
Given that the EU Member States do not recognise the Taliban government, it is extremely difficult to communicate with them and to gain access to territories under their control.
Since military action began in Afghanistan on 7 October, it has become even more difficult, of course, to closely monitor the fate of the 16 Afghan citizens mentioned in the honourable Member' s question and to contribute to a political resolution of this matter.
Believe me, this is something I regret, but you will also understand that the situation is now even more difficult to assess than before.
I should be extremely glad if the Belgian Presidency were able to report here in Parliament that all 24 of these people had been found and were free and alive.
It is my wish that you in the Belgian Presidency should do everything you can.
As the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
Question No 14 by (H-0806/01): Subject: Priorities in the fisheries sector during the second half of the Belgian Presidency Will the Council, under the Belgian Presidency, outline its priorities for the fisheries sector during the second half of its term of office, taking into account the particular and unique requirements of peripheral countries such as Ireland which has 11% of Community waters in its jurisdiction but only 4% of Community quotas?
I would simply like to confirm, Mr President, that, as I said in my detailed answer to your question regarding these 16 individuals, I obviously hope, as does everyone in the House, that these people can be spared.
In any case, bear in mind that everything that can be done will be done, but today, the situation on the ground in Afghanistan is extremely complicated.
Question No 15 by (H-0807/01): Subject: Revision of the common position on Cuba On 11 July 2001 I asked the Council whether it intended to revise the EU's common position on its relations with Cuba.
On 5 September I received a detailed and satisfactory written answer.
Once again, this honourable Assembly is inviting the presidency of the Council to discuss relations between Cuba and the European Union.
The European Union' s common position on Cuba remains the basis of the European Union' s policy on this country.
At the ninth revision of the common position on Cuba on 25 June, the Council noted that the common position was still valid.
The EU' s objectives regarding Cuba are as before: to encourage a process of peaceful transition towards democratic pluralism and the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
In parallel with this, the Council has always shown its willingness to maintain an open and constructive dialogue on all the issues of common interest.
It also showed a favourable opinion on establishing an open, political dialogue and on finding a future framework agreement on cooperation based on the respect of democratic principles, the principles of human rights and the rule of law.
Moreover, at the ninth revision of the common position, the Council urged the European Commission to step up its efforts to cooperate, particularly with civil and non-governmental organisations in Cuba, to enable greater numbers of EU players on the ground to contribute more effectively in achieving the objectives of the common position.
Furthermore, and as you yourself point out, the Member States of the European Union are Cuba' s main economic partners.
However, we must remember that it was the Cuban authorities who broke off dialogue between the European Union and Cuba, when they cancelled the EU' s troika mission at Director-General level, virtually the day before it was due to take place, on 27 and 28 April 2000.
It was also the Cuban authorities that, in May 2000, withdrew their request to sign up to the Cotonou agreement.
The next meeting between the Cuban Minister for Foreign Affairs and the EU troika has been scheduled, at Cuba' s request, to run in parallel with the 55th UN General Assembly which is currently underway, and, at this moment in time, I am as yet unable to give you any details of this second meeting.
All of them, apart from one Ambassador, agreed that the common position is useless, because it does not contribute to the progress of the Cubans nor to the progress of relations between the European Union and Cuba.
Mr President, as I said to you in my answer, I do believe that the recent visit by the European Union troika and the meeting, which is currently being held in parallel to the United Nations General Assembly, will certainly be of use to the Council' s work in this area.
Nonetheless, I am committed to our will and our objectives which still aim to encourage a process of peaceful transition and above all to develop a dialogue, which is as frank, open and as constructive as it possibly can be, on all the issues of common interest.
I was a member of the delegation referred to by Miguel Ángel Martínez and I was able to witness the fact that NGOs, Ambassadors and even the so-called dissidents in Cuba consider the common position to be of little use.
I wanted to point out, Madam President, that if there are many Members here who feel the common position relating to Cuba is unjust, it is because, for example, we have a customs agreement with Turkey and we all know that Turkey does not comply with basic human rights.
In fact, the Kurdish Member of Parliament, Leyla Zana, who was awarded the Sakharov Prize, is in prison, and a European delegation has not been able to visit her over recent days.
What we are saying is that the common position relating to Cuba demands that the latter make changes before we reach a cooperation agreement and that is what seems unfair to us, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
We therefore always insist that this review - which is going to be at the last minute - should take account of the opinions of all these people in Cuba, and we also note that two different yardsticks are being used.
First of all, I would like to reiterate that, as part of the European regional policy and particularly in the current 2000-2006 programming period, there is the possibility of supporting economic and social redevelopment in Objective 2 rural areas, which have a population of less than 100 inhabitants per kilometre.
The Council would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, following the Commission' s presentation of the second report on economic and social cohesion, representatives from the Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament met last June, at the initiative of the Swedish Presidency of the Council, in Lycksele, in the north of Sweden, in order to share their experiences and discuss the future of depopulated zones, including rural areas, a matter on which the presidency that Belgium assumed this quarter, continues to work.
The Council believes that the first thing we must do, at this stage, is to seek to use the full potential of the current regulations in order to combat depopulation and impoverishment of specific rural areas.
I think that the existing framework can be better exploited, not only at Community level, but also, and more importantly, at a lower level, in other words at the level of Member States which must strive to implement policies within the context of criteria defined at Community level.
Judgment EC 184/99 that you mention, Mr Crowley, was only handed down on 20 September 2001.
However, on a number of occasions in this House I have raised the issue with regard to, in particular, Erasmus students who have been treated differently in different Member States.
One of the consequences of this judgment is that there will now be an obligation on all Member States to ensure that there is a common system available to give assistance to those students who are in Erasmus programmes or who are studying in full-time programmes in countries other than their own Member States.
I can only take note of your formal and urgent request to bring up this issue and repeat that the Council will respect the judgment passed by the Court as soon as it has studied all the consequences and implications of this judgment.
I do hope that the Council will have time to study the implications of the judgment and to identify how far it is possible to confirm, invalidate or interpret the question you have asked.
I therefore hope that the Council will be given the time it needs to examine the implications, and therefore the consequences of the judgment that the Court handed down in September.
For information, I am referring to a previous Court decision which decided that, irrespective of whether a Member State had put implementing provisions in place arising from its decisions or the decisions of the Council or the Commission, citizens are entitled to benefit from those decisions.
I am simply asking the President-in-Office of the Council if she can confirm that the outcome of this particular court decision means that citizens will benefit, whatever those benefits may be, from the date of the decision and that no Member State is entitled to seek to restrict that.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 18 and 19 will be taken together.
The £470m MOX Plant, built five years ago by the state-owned British Nuclear Fuels plc but not yet operational, has yet to establish that the economic benefits of such a plant outweigh the health and environmental detriments, as it is required to do under EU law.
At the extraordinary session of 21 September, the Council decided that the fight against terrorism will, now more than ever, be a strategic priority of the European Union.
It is clear from the many meetings that the various Council formations and the European Council have held and will hold on this issue under the Belgian Presidency that the Council attaches a great deal of importance to this fight.
From this point of view, we should also reiterate the European Union, in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council meetings of 8 and 9 October 2001, reaffirms its commitment to non-proliferation and disarmament.
More specifically, regarding the two questions that have been asked, the Council would like to draw attention to the fact that, overall, measures concerning the physical security of nuclear plants are an area of national competence.
It is up to the Commission to ensure that these provisions and the ensuing Community regulations are implemented, particularly Regulation No 3227/76 concerning the application of the provisions on Euratom safeguards.
The Euratom Safeguards Office has the specific task of verifying, by deploying inspectors if necessary, that the operators of nuclear power plants respect the security control obligations enshrined in the treaty, as well as those stipulated in Regulation No 3227/76.
There are several legally binding instruments at international level, which the United Kingdom and the other Member States are party, such as the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material of 3 March 1980, several provisions of which cover, for example, the theft or other illicit means of obtaining nuclear materials, and which require other Member States that are contracting parties to cooperate and assist the party that is the victim of the crime.
More generally, the Treaty on European Union contains provisions on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters among Member States, notably in Article 29.
It is on this basis that the Council is currently examining a proposal for a Council framework decision on the fight against terrorism.
I would like to draw the President-in-Office of the Council's attention to the fact that she has not addressed the second part of my question relating to the fact that British Nuclear Fuels has not yet established the economic benefits of the MOX fuel plant, which it is obliged to do before it can commission it under existing EU regulations.
I would say in response that the work, the responsibilities that you expect in terms of control or arbitration are responsibilities that have been passed on to the Commission and I am not currently in a position to give you, on behalf of the Council, any details on these.
Mr President, the second point was in fact more of an observation that you made as part of your question.
However, with regard to this comment, I can only repeat that these details are more of a matter for the Commission than the Council, as far as, for example, conformity to Community legislation is concerned.
As the author is not present, Question No 20 lapses.
Question No 21 by (H-0820/01): Subject: Dioxin rules threaten fish in the Baltic A Commission proposal on the limit values for dioxin in fish could be a death blow to the Swedish fishing industry.
According to the Swedish Fisheries Board, the proposal would probably result in a total ban on the sale of salmon and eels from the Baltic.
The presidency of the Council is currently focusing all its efforts with a view to reaching a solution that gives a balanced compromise, which will enable us to guarantee the protection of public health, whilst avoiding creating the sort of economic disruption that you described.
I would thank the Council of Ministers for its answer.
It would, however, be of secondary importance in relation to the question that is of concern to you, but it is difficult for me to respond to this question at the moment, as it will relate to both the nature of the recommendations which will be made and also to finding the best possible compromise from an economic or any other point of view.
As the author is not present, Question No 22 lapses.
Question No 23 by (H-0838/01): Subject: Belgian Presidency and the Regulation on models and designs Has the Belgian Presidency succeeded in convincing the Member State whose attitude was preventing the Regulation on models and designs from being adopted?
In response to your question, the Council would like to inform you that it noted, at the 27 September meeting of the Internal Market, Consumer and Tourism Council that there are no longer any barriers in the way of adopting the proposal for a regulation on the Community designs or models.
I would first of all like to congratulate the Belgian Presidency on having managed to convince the Belgian government to withdraw the linguistic objections which, according to what was said earlier, were hindering the approval of the Regulation on models and designs.
Furthermore, we are pleased that, again under the Belgian Presidency, this Regulation, which is so essential to the operation of the internal market, and also to the operation of the Office for the Harmonisation of the Internal Market in Alicante, can be approved immediately.
At the end of 2000, Mr Bolkestein and myself were in this plenary when the Commissioner promised on that occasion that he would take measures if nothing had changed in the first six months of this year.
The Commissioner kept his promise and presented his Regulation, and I realise that the banks have simply missed two opportunities.
I am unable to support Amendment No 9 on self-regulation.
However, the liberal amendment creates confusion about the date of entry into force and in strict legal terms, something like that cannot be provided for in this Regulation.
The other new amendments are the result of the sound cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for this sound cooperation.
I do not want cheques to fall within the principle of equal costs as referred to in Article 3, because an increasing number of banks would actually like to do away with the cross-border cheque.
The cheque does remain within the scope of the transparency section of the Regulation, which is stipulated in Article 4.
Some banks, such as the Postbank and Internet banks, have their own codes and should not, therefore, be forced to use the IBAN and BIC codes.
His offices were always available for consultation, and all this could well result in this Regulation ending its march through the institutions on a positive note.
However, my bad conscience about this parking offence was very quickly eclipsed by concern about how much it would cost me to transfer the 200 Austrian schillings for this parking ticket from Germany to Austria.
On 1 January we will get the euro.
In 47 days the euro coins and notes will be available to everyone in the euro zone as a common currency, in my opinion, the greatest European Union project ever in terms of creating identity and fostering integration.
The euro zone will be a domestic market within the internal market.
That is why this Commission proposal and the report are needed.
The European Parliament and especially its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has for years been insisting on the need for banks to set up payment systems in the euro zone that would allow citizens to use the euro as if it were a national currency.
The banks have perfected their credit and debit card and electronic purse payment systems at a national level, they have perfected their international operations, and they have forgotten about the euro area.
Well, the euro zone is for us a region with a single currency which should have monetary rules in common that are easily understood by the citizens.
The Party of European Socialists agrees with the rapporteur' s proposals, and therefore this draft regulation deserves our approval; we also hope that an agreement can be reached with the Council at first reading.
In fact, cross-border transfers only represent 1% of the total payments made by the banks, and they are electronic payments which entail an effective reduction in staff costs for the banking system.
The citizens have, in fact, already condemned and rejected it.
Of the main amendments approved, we highlight the one concerning the penalties to be applied in the event of infringement of the regulation by any banking organisation, as well as an indication of the procedures to follow in other situations, so as to give some assurance to the citizens who use the euro.
I believe that, with the approval of this regulation, Parliament will be contributing to a smooth launch of the new currency for the citizens, giving the euro greater credibility and strength, and easing the indispensable cultural and economic transition.
A solution to the problem of cross-border payments is now really in sight, and that is surely something to be welcomed.
Partly thanks to the tenacity of this Parliament, an arrangement will be put in place, and I think that the name of our rapporteur will remain inextricably linked with this.
In my view, the new amendments tabled by our rapporteur are particularly fitting in this connection, and we will be supporting them.
What we do not like in the proposal is that it could, of course, lead to a situation in which even the internal payments, which are, or at least seem to be, now mostly free, will become more expensive for the consumer.
Current technology enables these payment transactions to be carried out at low cost and the same technology can also be used for cross-border payments.
Mr President, on 26 October 2000, I explained to Parliament why the current level of bank charges on cross-border payments in Europe are due to technical obstacles which will disappear in time, or so we hope, but which are currently unavoidable.
The proposal for a regulation that is before us today belongs to the next stage.
The first is that it undermines subsidiarity, because this issue should be a matter for Member States.
The third is that it undermines the commitments repeatedly made to use regulation as sparingly as possible because, in being directly applied to the Member States, such regulation undermines the national parliaments' power of transposition, which is, in fact, perfectly legitimate.
The current situation, in which for a payment of EUR 100 you may have to pay as much as EUR 23 bank handling charges, cannot be tolerated.
Besides, at the beginning of next year the problem will only get bigger, when twelve euro area Member States move over to euro cash.
In fact, Parliament did, towards the end of last year, demand that the ECP should assemble a working group of qualified experts in the field, who would be given the task to create a suitable standard.
The idea of Parliament was that the group would have carried out the work during this year and a proposal would have been made public before Christmas.
Therefore, this time it is unavoidable that we have to read the Commission report, which in all respects truly is not in accordance with Parliament' s original wishes.
Mr President, I think that the Commission proposal has, in fact, come just at the right time, better late than never, and makes it clear that the currency union is not only being completed in the interests of the markets and business, but also in the interests of consumers.
I should like to recall that we have been working on this issue for over 10 years, as the rapporteur rightly said, and that we have always supported self-regulation and voluntary agreements, but that in this sector it has, in the end, always been necessary to adopt legislation, in order for example to bring about quicker, more reliable and above all cheaper transfers.
Happily, this is now in the past, but this experience in the European Parliament taught us precisely that it is necessary to enact legislation.
This internal market requires a European payment system, and not just for large payments, like TARGET, but also for retail payments, for the transfer of small amounts.
Everyone is affected by this: mothers or fathers who have children studying or undergoing training abroad; those of us who order books or wish to pay for a journey or a hotel in another European country.
We need to think of them.
Why should a proposal be forthcoming now, in the next two or three weeks, when it has been overdue for over 15 years?
Despite this, it is regrettable that some three years following the launch of the electronic euro and on the eve of 1 January 2002, we are still having to work on a piece of legislation of this kind.
The Commission had just published its fourth or fifth communication on that subject and in it, it was stipulated that the internal market and the single currency had to be accompanied by a common payment area.
The citizens will then question the usefulness of the euro if cross-border payments are still as expensive as they are now.
It transpired that in the year 2001, a cross-border payment of EUR 100 costs no less than EUR 24 on average.
In one section of the bank sector, the plan is now being put forward to set up a new system for cross-border payments.
What took me rather by surprise is the idea of the bank sector that since they, as banks, have committed to implementing the plan, we, as Commission, can withdraw our proposal for a Regulation.
Secondly, the proposed plan is too late.
It was only announced in a press release two weeks prior to the discussion of the proposal in Parliament.
I should like to turn to yet another bone of contention, namely the date on which the present draft Regulation should enter into force.
That is why the European Central Bank proposes 1 January 2005 for the Regulation to come into force.
Consequently, the entry into force of the Regulation in 2003 will not involve insurmountable additional costs, and if our expectations are fulfilled and if it transpires that the price reduction results in a greater use of this means of payment, then there will be even more reason to go full steam ahead with the activities.
One single amendment is not acceptable, namely Amendment No 9 on the suspension of the Regulation which I mentioned a moment ago.
One amendment constitutes a legal problem, namely Amendment No 4 on the rise in costs for domestic payments.
As it happens, the Commission has never wanted to promote the use of cheques and therefore agrees with the amendment.
We can thus accept that amendment.
The other seven amendments are acceptable in principle, although some will need to be edited.
This proposal will be discussed by the Internal Market Council in some ten days' time, on 26 November.
I am convinced that we will reach an agreement, not least because the European Council in Ghent has requested the Council to reach its findings promptly and has endorsed this proposal.
Finally, allow me to thank Parliament as a whole for the sound cooperation.
This proposal demonstrates the specific benefits of Europe to the citizen and enhances confidence in the European Union.
We, too, thought that the second part was set out in a rather peculiar way, all the more so since it was not Parliament' s intention to set up a new institute.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is certain there will be no convergence because the industry is a monopoly industry and can therefore engage in strategic price setting.
Furthermore, Commissioner, I must say that the Council has not demonstrated the necessary respect or tact vis-à-vis Parliament, because a week before we submitted our opinion, it presented us with a political agreement in which it attempts to force our opinion.
This makes we wonder how you can come along and support a measure from which, in the economic sector, only large monopolies stand to gain for reasons which, unfortunately, I cannot go into now, but you know full well that I am right, while, in the political sector, you come along with something which looks to me very much like totalitarianism.
The issue of health protection undoubtedly has a role to play in this proposal for a directive.
The question of whether the minimum excise duty should be EUR 140, 120, 100, 80 or 60 is also undoubtedly significant in connection with health protection, but not for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The second point concerns Article 3(1).
The health effects of filters can certainly be disputed, but it ought to be indisputable that a cigarillo with a filter is in any case slightly more healthy than a cigarillo without a filter.
Even if it sounds harsh, technical improvements are necessary. . (NL) Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I would thank the Commission for the proposal on upward convergence of excise on tobacco.
In our view, the proposal is an improvement on the current situation and also solves a number of problems, including that of continuing to allow for exceptions, as is the case for Sweden now and the accession countries in future.
Secondly, our committee was of the opinion that the issue should be clearly placed in the context of existing negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, for the latter plays a major role in this.
We have also tabled an amendment in which we state that, concerning products which are less unhealthy, we should be working towards a system, maybe not now, but in 2005, whereby the excise on those products would also be lower.
We therefore support the gist of the Commission proposal, as well as the position which the Council has already adopted in this respect.
I am sorry, but common sense is nowhere to be seen in this proposal for a directive, which we, too, propose should be rejected in its entirety.
The Council says that the aim is to combat tax evasion and cigarette smuggling.
If we increase the price of cigarettes, as is proposed, then we shall, without question, increase cigarette smuggling because we shall be making legal cigarettes more expensive than smuggled cigarettes.
Similarly, the proposals in the proposed directive are wrong because, first of all, they restrict application to five, mainly southern countries.
Secondly, the cost of living will rise in these five countries, four of which are southern countries, without any increase in wages, thereby exacerbating inflationary pressures.
And it would be helpful to know how their governments are going to persuade them that integration into the European Union will benefit consumers, when they will have to pay 200 to 500% more for cigarettes under this sort of directive.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for this proposal.
This proposal will introduce a cash minimum amount of cigarette duty.
Currently the rule is expressed as a percentage of tax, inclusive of the retail selling price, and therefore has little effect on Member States and applicant countries where retail prices are already low.
Mr President, it strikes me that the Katiforis report does not explain why the European Commission proposal to change excise duty rates for tobacco is being rejected.
Furthermore, the necessary increase in tobacco excise for a number of Member States, following on from this proposal, will not cause any damage to health.
The European Union is still very much lacking credibility on this score.
Supporting tobacco growers in the switch to another crop which also entails subsidies, is a very generous solution and therefore deserves Parliament' s support.
I call on the Council to support the European Commission proposals and to stand up to the pressure exerted by one or two Member States.
The Commission is doing what Parliament wanted in 1996 and therefore it is odd that the report should not accept the Commission's proposal.
The changes proposed will bring about increased convergence in duty rates within the European Union and, as such, improve the functioning of the internal market, both now and as it will be after enlargement.
According to the working document presented by the rapporteur to EMAC in June, the main justification is that the introduction of a minimum amount of taxation of EUR 70 for cigarettes constitutes a shift towards specific taxation, and would disadvantage small- and medium-sized producers in southern Member States.
Last week in the Ecofin Council the Member States unanimously agreed a compromise text produced by the Belgian Presidency, which is clearly in line with the Commission's proposal.
For cigarette taxation, the most significant element is the introduction of a minimum amount of duty of EUR 60 at the initial stage and EUR 64 at a later stage, rather than the EUR 70 proposed by the Commission.
Mr Folias has quite rightly drawn our attention to that aspect of the proposal.
The existing minimum taxation requirement - the so-called 57% rule - allows for a higher degree of price manipulation and would not in itself be sufficient to reduce to a sustainable level the gap between the tax and price levels of the present Member States and the candidate countries.
Such a situation would result in substantial revenue loss for present Member States, especially those having borders with candidate countries.
The requirement for a minimum amount of duty will avoid this happening and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market after enlargement.
Therefore, it has proposed that the Council grant limited transitional periods to candidate countries for reaching the minimum rate of taxation.
According to that reasoning, if the price went down then more expensive cigarettes would also be purchased.
The point of view of his committee is based on the legal state of affairs.
The Commission and the Member States have also taken a number of initiatives to combat fraud and smuggling following the conclusions of the high-level group on fraud in the field of excise duties.
Therefore the Commission invites all Members of Parliament who have expressed an opinion contrary to that of the Commission to reconsider their position on this issue very carefully before tomorrow's vote.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
That is why the following question is now much more urgent than it was during the preparations for the first spring summit in Stockholm: how does the Commission intend to continue this ambitious process of making the European Union, on the basis of innovation and knowledge, the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world, and enabling it to overcome the problems which I have described?
This question is all the more pertinent for the spring summit in Barcelona because, after evaluating a strategy of this kind for two years, it ought to be possible to identify the areas where national and European policy have actually been guided by the quantitative and qualitative objectives and see to what extent it has been possible to bundle measures together and make them visible.
The Member States' budgets have actually shown uniform increases across the board in investment in research and development, innovation and further development of the information and communication society.
The European Parliament needs to ask all of these questions because, in drafting its synthesis report, the Commission has the duty of actually producing a blueprint for the further consultations at the spring summit, which will then, of course, in the end, form the broad guidelines of the future economic policy of the European Union and its Member States.
In the current economic downturn and at a time when we are also facing particular challenges because of the adverse economic consequences of the terrible terrorist acts of 11 September - and in considering these issues we have to take into account a new aspect, the collapse of consumer confidence - we must also ask ourselves the following question: what can we do to stop a self-fulfilling prophecy, which states that we are sliding into recession, from becoming a reality?
As requested by the European Council, that report will assess the progress made on the economic, social and environmental dimensions of the Lisbon strategy.
I mention the environmental dimension in particular since the Göteborg Summit.
Part of this assessment will consider the progress made by Council and Parliament on the Lisbon reform agenda.
The assessment will draw on the series of structural indicators which have been proposed by the Commission in its communication of 30 October 2001.
The objective of sustainable development will underpin the assessment of each strand of that strategy.
This shows that economic policy coordination is working.
Nonetheless there is still further scope for strengthening economic policy coordination in line with the proposals put forward by the Commission, with a view to fostering a common assessment of the economic situation and appropriate economic policy responses.
A number of Commission services are therefore contributing to its preparation and this work is being monitored at political level by a group of Commissioners dealing with growth, competitiveness, employment and sustainable development.
The report should be adopted by the Commission on 15 January 2002 and will be submitted to this Parliament on the same day.
By submitting the report at an early stage, it is intended to allow the other European institutions to give their views on the report in good time in order to contribute to the work of the European Council in Barcelona.
But it would be useful if my future discussion with the EMAC committee could take place after 15 January, because by then both Parliament and I will be in possession of the documents that will be the Commission's input into the Barcelona Council.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Group I would like to support the position expressed by the Chairperson of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the issue we are debating.
This is the need to consolidate and clarify the mechanisms and objectives in the field of economic and monetary policy.
We know that this situation is unsatisfactory and the current crisis highlights this.
I stress the fact that progress made since Lisbon has been insufficient.
In the area of financial services, for example, the Commission intends to have a mid-term review meeting in February next year to stimulate more political interest in perfecting the internal market and achieving the difficult targets we were set by the Lisbon European Council.
Considerable difficulties remain and we must use the meeting in Lisbon to make further progress.
So far members of the European Council have engaged in laudatory statements but when ministers have to deal with the subjects at hand the political will seems to evaporate.
If the Ecofin ministers were to be present at the Barcelona Council perhaps they could solve these problems there and then.
That underscores the need for the Barcelona European Council to be practical and emphasises the need to make more progress than have been made up until now.
The debate is closed.
From the time the agreement expired, on 30 November 1999, until the time it became clear that a new agreement would not be reached, owners of more than 400 vessels and some 4 300 fishermen were both hopeful and fearful at the time when negotiations between the Community and Morocco were being prolonged.
By presenting this proposed regulation, the Commission is conforming to the guidelines set by the Nice European Council of 7 December 2000.
At that Summit, the European Council ordered the Commission to propose a specific action plan for the restructuring of this Community fleet.
I must state clearly that this proposed regulation does not conform to the needs of the sector in question.
Once again the Commission seems to be presenting proposals, the objective of which we do not understand, that do not amount to decisive action in support of a fleet and certain regions which are suffering a serious crisis.
In fact, rather than helping to preserve most of the fleet and its economic activity, the Commission is presenting a rigid proposal which, if the Council approves it without the substantial amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries, will have the effect of breaking up a fleet for which the ship owners and local authorities of those regions feel capable of finding alternatives.
This proposal must therefore be amended in the way approved by the Committee on Fisheries, so that the actions proposed may have a beneficial effect on the sector in question.
The Commission could have focussed on the existing opportunities in alternative sectors, such as the processing industry, aquiculture and especially the promotion of fisheries products.
Faced with this breaking-up approach, the sector affected and the regional authorities have reached verbal agreements with companies and ship owners from various Maghreb countries to create mixed companies, and in this way, according to the estimates of the sector, in the small-scale sector, around a hundred vessels could be relocated with the help of this specific measure, if it were more flexible, thereby reducing to 26 those vessels destined for scrapping.
This would maintain an economic activity which is vital to certain regions and ensure that those who want to continue being ship owners and fishermen are able to do so.
This requirement leads to the exclusion of those people who, sometimes temporarily, found alternative work while waiting for a new fisheries agreement with Morocco to be reached.
The Commission' s proposal intends to increase public aid per ship owner by 20% in the case of scrapping or transfer to a third country.
The Committee on Fisheries believes that fishermen must also benefit from this increase of 20%.
It proposes implementing the flexibility instrument in 2002 and allocating the appropriations corresponding to heading 2 of the financial perspectives.
The saving resulting from the non-renewal of the agreement has been EUR 500 million.
Tomorrow, on voting on the report we are debating today, our institution will write the last page of a story that has been told since August 1987, when the European Union signed its first fisheries agreement with that country, but which for Spain goes back almost twenty-five years.
The amendments introduced by the Committee on Fisheries, above all, contribute to adding a greater degree of flexibility in order to allow Community solidarity to truly benefit a very heterogeneous fleet, which over the last two years has not ceased to seek its own solutions; solutions which greater legislative rigidity may contribute to blocking.
It is impossible to imagine that Morocco really wants to turn its back on the European Union, amongst other things because we share two seas and we are obliged to be neighbours, and Morocco can only benefit from this proximity.
I therefore ask the Commission to remain receptive and promote any mutually beneficial fishing cooperation initiative which may arise in the future.
The proposal shows that the European Union cares about the fate of such vulnerable and fragile activities, whose survival depended on the renewal or non-renewal of a fishing agreement with Morocco.
The Commission proposal considers the problems of conversion from its economic and social angles.
It also has the merit of mobilising new money, EUR 197 million, which is compatible with the mobilisation of other resources already allocated under the Structural Funds.
In Portugal there are 570 fishermen who receive support under this programme, 400 of whom live in Sesimbra, a small, attractive fishing and tourist town very close to Lisbon.
Of these 400 who live in Sesimbra, 150 are already over 55 years old, which means they can be moved into early retirement, since at this age it is difficult to retrain them for a different job.
Furthermore, the proposal has quite a rigid structure and should be made more flexible, allowing the Member States, in this case Portugal and Spain, to adapt better to situations that are truly complex and sometimes do not fit within the rigid stays of the regulation.
This flexibility should be accepted so that the aid already granted by the end of 2001 should not all be accounted for under the part of FIFG Article 4 intended for socio-economic measures, and all of it within the Lisbon and Tagus valley region, and it would be better if it could be diluted in other programmes.
Turning to Morocco, the Greens will be voting against this proposal, not because we oppose compensation for fishermen put out of work, but because we oppose this particular package.
Clearly, the problem with fisheries agreements has to be addressed.
Its quality is all the more notable insofar as it deals with an issue which is hugely traumatic for a large number of people who depend on fishing in Portugal and in Galicia, Andalucia and the Canary Islands in Spain.
For a long time my group has been warning the House of the risks of not linking the fisheries agreement with Morocco to the association agreement.
And, in this respect, I would like to make it clear that the budgetary flexibility instrument is essential.
Ladies and gentlemen, it would be horrendous, to give an example, if an Objective 1 region, with the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, which also suffers the consequences of the competition created by the very favourable agreements which we, Europeans, have granted to Morocco in the fruit products sector, not only suffered the effects of a tough conversion as a result of the lack of an agreement with Morocco, but that, furthermore, as a result of the budgetary miserliness of certain people, it also ended up without Structural Funds.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since it is so late, I will try to be very brief and concise.
Secondly, we must speak about the funding of this plan, although this is not strictly an issue for our committee.
In Nice, the Council made a political commitment at the highest level, at the level of Heads of State and Government, to the people affected by the dramatic situation created following the failure of the negotiations with Morocco.
I believe that the European Commission has also been able to meet the demands of the circumstances, and I would like to acknowledge that here: the use of the flexibility instrument and the EUR 197 million it proposes for funding demonstrate this.
I now ask Parliament' s Committee on Budgets and the Council to support the European Commission and the European Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries and reach the necessary compromise so that this essential EUR 197 million can be used for the proposed purpose.
There is a political commitment and a favourable opinion from this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries and we strongly urge that they be complied with.
The fact is that compensation for the stoppage finishes at the end of this year.
It is, therefore, important that the next Budgetary Council should stop blocking and take these proposals into account, creating the solution that will allow the fleet restructuring programme to come into force early next year.
It concerns how to deal openly and honestly with the consequences which the failure of the negotiations with Morocco have had for the Iberian peninsular.
I shall highlight three aspects in this regard: the first is that there is no sense in the rigidity that the draft regulation imposes regarding the percentage of the funding to be allocated to each type of measure.
What would make sense would be to allow each Member State the flexibility, within the overall envelope, to allocate these funds according to its own needs, with clear rules.
For instance, in the case of Portugal, funds for destroying vessels should be reduced and funds for restructuring some of these ships and for the social part should be increased.
Secondly, an envelope of this kind should also include funding for the economic conversion of the areas most affected by fishing, and include in this compensation framework collateral activities such as the processing industry.
The third aspect I should like to highlight is that, in the Commission' s view, the aim of this aid is essentially to close a chapter in the common fisheries policy, which was the agreement with Morocco, without making the effort which I believe was needed to expand the fishing possibilities for these countries in third countries' waters, and without duly providing for measures, which again were needed, to help these companies become more international more easily.
We, ourselves, have also tried to do our part with amendments that will clearly improve this proposal where it has gaps.
Firstly, the Council regulation aiming at widening the scope of existing provisions and, secondly, additional credits for a specific action.
The Commission welcomes the fact that the emergency procedure should allow the adoption of the regulation by the end of November instead of the end of December.
The first group consists of Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5, 10, 11 and 13.
The Commission does not believe that the land-based industries - that is to say, fish-processing factories, as well as services to vessels - ought to benefit from the new regulation, nor should the coastal regions themselves.
The second group of amendments consists of Amendments Nos 3 and 4.
The Commission does not believe that all fishermen and vessel owners who have received indemnities in 2000-2001, irrespective of the actual duration of the cessation of activity, should benefit from the new regulation.
Therefore a minimum duration of compensation, as a simple criterion, has been proposed and a nine-month duration has been considered a reasonable minimum.
The third group consists of Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 8.
With respect to the age of vessels to be withdrawn, the Commission has proposed to reduce the minimum age to five years in the case of the exporting of vessels.
On Amendments Nos 9 and 12, the Commission would stress that social premiums for fishermen are already available in the existing regulation.
However, Spain and Portugal should guarantee that such increased premiums do not create distortion in relation to equivalent social premiums that may be available for workers of other industries in the same Member States.
I turn to Amendments Nos 14 and 15.
The additional credits are not structural funds.
Those rules should be in line with today' s priorities, which amount to scrapping redundant vessels and also to social measures.
Two legal provisions limit that risk: firstly a bank guarantee, and secondly, a partially delayed payment (that is, after two years of satisfactory operation).
The budget rules for using additional credits imply the relaxation of the second provision, but the Commission is willing to maintain its financial risk at the same level.
Then there is Amendment No 17.
If the budgetary authority decides to earmark all the commitment credits dedicated to the specific action in the budgetary year 2002, the wording of that article should remain unchanged.
The wording of Article 7 should remain consistent with the wording of the equivalent articles of Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
