The Radio Caracas TV Channel in Venezuela The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the case of 'Radio Caracas TV' in Venezuela.
The competent authority did not issue the administrative act until three months later, on 28 March, and that act does not mention any of the serious accusations that the Venezuelan Embassy in Brussels has also communicated to us.
In reality, the non-renewal of the licence for Radio Caracas TV is a matter for the Venezuelan Government alone, and their decision respects the country's laws and constitution.
The fact is that freedom of expression and pluralism of information and television broadcasts are guaranteed in Venezuela.
In the particular case of Radio Caracas TV we are talking about a television station that played an active role in supporting the coup in 2002 and the oil blockade in 2002 and 2003.
author. - Mr President, RCTV is a privately-owned TV station, which has been operating in Venezuela for more than half a century.
RCTV's history is, unfortunately, stigmatised mainly by its alleged controversial role in the April 2002 attempted coup in Venezuela.
At the same time, we refuse to become involved in a campaign that is justified not only by events in Venezuela, but has arisen within a Member State of the European Union, that is to say in Spain, where this idea is actively used.
author. - (PL) Mr President, when we speak about freedom of speech and the fact that President Chavez decided not to renew the licence of one of the largest radio and television networks in Venezuela, we should consider in general terms what the limits of freedom are.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, dictatorships are not established overnight.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I wish to speak in this House in defence of press freedom: here, in Venezuela and anywhere in the world.
It is because there are breaches of human rights in Venezuela that we have this motion for a resolution.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, we have said it before and we must say it again: freedom of expression is not just a fundamental right, but it is also the guarantee of democracy.
It is not a question of deciding whether or not we are in favour of Hugo Chávez: that is not the issue.
Europe, too, has alternatives to neoliberalism. - (PL) Mr President, the President of Venezuela, Mr Hugo Chavez, has said that he will not renew the licence of one of the largest private television stations, Radio Caracas TV, which has been broadcasting for 53 years.
This decision is unacceptable and goes against all international treaties which Venezuela has signed and which compel it to respect the plurality of the media, not to mention the fact that Articles 57 and 58 of the Venezuelan constitution guarantee the freedom of speech, communication and information.
Events taking place in Venezuela are extremely worrying, as they are yet another example of the flagrant abuse of human and civil rights in countries which call themselves democracies, such as Cuba, China or Venezuela.
We cannot remain indifferent to the infringement of democratic principles. (EL) Mr President, the superficial interest of the political groups of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Liberals and the Union for Europe of the Nations, to project on the pretext of freedom of expression and through a joint resolution by the European Parliament the groundless, false allegations by the owners of the Radio Caracas TV radio and television station and the reactionary political forces in Venezuela which together played a leading part in the attempted coup in 2002, in the oil embargo in 2003, in the subversive action during the referendum on the dismissal of the president and in the constant, blatant infringements of the rules of freedom of information, is a barefaced and unacceptable action against both the government and the people of Venezuela.
The spectrum of radio and television frequencies in Venezuela is a social asset that belongs to the people of the country and the legal representative for its management is its government.
They basically want to restore the status quo ante in Venezuela, they want the wealth-producing resources in this country and they want the exploitation of the people of Venezuela to continue and the European Parliament and the people of Venezuela themselves will not allow it. (CS) President Hugo Chávez has prevented Radio Caracas Televisión from renewing its license.
