Response of the European Union to the deteriorating situation in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statement on the response of the European Union to the deteriorating situation in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, my dear Benita, ladies and gentlemen, I know how concerned you are, as are we, by the deteriorating situation in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo and I recall, as we have already debated the matter with you, that we were becoming increasingly worried when we raised the issue in your Committee on Foreign Affairs in October.
The Foreign Ministers of the Union discussed the issue at length in the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 10 November last and the President decided to put this item on the agenda for the next General Affairs and External Relations Council on 8 December, in the presence of the Commission, represented by Louis Michel and Benita Ferrero-Waldner.
In the depths of the crisis and at the height of the offensive by Laurent Nkunda's rebel forces, the European Union mobilised vigorously, followed by the rest of the international community.
On 1 and 2 November, he was followed by Bernard Kouchner, in his role as President-in-Office of the Council, and David Miliband.
The political message of restraint was delivered by both ministers, in Kinshasa, Kigali and Dar es Salaam.
It is estimated that a further 250 000 people have been displaced in the most dramatic conditions, taking the current total to over one million displaced persons in the province of North Kivu alone.
The resumption of fighting has also interrupted the implementation of the agreements concluded in November 2007 between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda, known as the Nairobi process, with which you are familiar and which focuses on the struggle against the Rwandan Hutu rebels of the FDLR located in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The agreement between the Congolese government and the Congolese rebel groups, including Mr Nkunda's CNDP, in January 2008, known as the Goma process, has also broken down.
Extra provision, to a current value of over EUR 43 million, in the form of contributions to the airlift - I am referring to countries like the United Kingdom, Belgium and Italy - make Europe the main contributor, by far, to the humanitarian effort undertaken in this crisis.
Now we need to re-launch the dynamic which will give a sustainable settlement to the issue of the illegal armed groups operating in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo, all of the illegal armed groups, whether they be Congolese or foreigners, in the knowledge that there is no military solution to the crisis and that any solution requires the re-launch of the Goma and Nairobi processes which I have just described and which form the appropriate framework for the lasting stabilisation of the situation in this Congolese province.
At its extraordinary summit in Johannesburg, on 10 November, the SADC also stated its readiness, if need be, to send a peace-keeping force to the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The European Union welcomes the commitment of the African states and remains determined to continue its cooperation with the UN, the African Union and the countries of the Great Lakes region to achieve a solution to this crisis.
Mr President, honourable Members and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my dear Jean-Pierre, today I am standing in for my fellow Commissioner, Louis Michel, who is unable to take part in this session for health reasons, and who has asked me to send his apologies to you.
Indeed, as the President of the Council has already stated, he was the first to travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo and to Rwanda, on 30 and 31 October last, at the height of the crisis, to try to resolve matters.
This was also recommended by the countries in the region, at the Nairobi Summit on 7 November and, above all, this also seemed to be what the CNDP rebels and a large part of the political establishment in Kinshasa, such as the National Assembly, were hoping for.
In this respect, the visit just made to the region by Mr Obasanjo is very encouraging.
During the visit, the CNDP's grievances were also heard and General Nkunda reaffirmed his readiness to observe a ceasefire and do everything to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid in the areas under his control.
However, it is even more important to support the current efforts to strengthen its mandate at a moment in which, in the coming days, the Security Council is to consider this question.
With 17 000 troops, MONUC is the largest peacekeeping mission in the world operating under a strong Chapter 7 mandate.
First, we must indeed support the peace efforts that are underway - not in recent weeks, but they have been going on for some time.
We have nominated Abbot Malu Malu for the Sakharov prize, because this gentleman has, for a very long time, been committed to trying to find peaceful solutions in this region.
I believe it is, of course, necessary to support these efforts and support our Commissioner, Louis Michel, who, and I say this as a socialist whilst he is a liberal, is making huge efforts in this area.
Secondly, we must defend this population, at all costs.
Now there is a chapter 7, and MONUC's mission is to defend the civilian population.
Oh, I would also like to draw attention to the action of Commissioner Michel, who has a long interest in this matter.
We are facing a very serious humanitarian situation.
I also met with Apollinaire Malu Malu, to whom we almost awarded the Sakharov prize, and who is in charge of the Amani programme.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, the current situation in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo is getting worse every day, and the international community is very worried about this.
I ask the African Union to make further efforts to ensure peace in the Great Lakes Region.
The governments of Rwanda and Nairobi signed a peace settlement in November 2007 as an attempt to resolve the animosity between the two countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the atrocious fighting in the east of the Congo is not simply a case of a civil war, it is also a regional conflict involving many neighbouring countries.
Only political cooperation and the economic integration of the region can provide peace there in the long term.
The Federal President of Germany himself has made reference to the fact that this is a conflict about raw materials.
The humanitarian situation is particularly grave with more than 1.5 million internal displaced persons in Kivu province.
This increase would bring the maximum permitted number of troops and police deployed under MONUC, already the biggest UN peacekeeping force in the world, to just over 20 000 to cover a country roughly the size of Western Europe.
MONUC's commander, Lieutenant-General Vicente Díaz de Villegas, recently resigned after seven weeks in the job.
However, it is encouraging that on 6 November, a thousand-member South African force deployed near Goma as part of MONUC.
If the West fails to do all that it can to assist operations in the Congo, there are other less high-minded actors waiting in the wings. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Jouyet, I am a member of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly and during the last session held in Kigali, Rwanda, I listened to President Paul Kagame, who spoke of the need to stabilise the situation in Central Africa.
First of all, what matters most is for the recommendations of the UN Panel of Experts on the illegal exploitation of the DRC's natural resources, as well as the sanctions against persons and companies whose participation in the looting of the resources has been proven, to be implemented.
I think we need to put pressure on the African Union to realise its own responsibilities in the region.
You both stressed the fact that there is no military solution to this conflict.
The quickest solution to address the humanitarian crisis would be to strengthen the existing measures, in other words MONUC, through a broader mandate and additional manpower.
However, as several speakers have indicated, we cannot stop at the military situation alone since, faced with the atrocities which, as many have pointed out, have been going on for far too long, priority must be given to a political solution, as the visits by Commissioner Michel, Bernard Kouchner and David Miliband have shown, to enable contact to be resumed between the protagonists in the region.
Priority must be given to the negotiations conducted within the African framework, whether this is the African Union, SADC or the Great Lakes Conference, to revive the Goma and Nairobi processes.
I share the opinions of those who have stated that we also need to tackle the causes of the conflict and this is what the Council has done, on 10 November, in its call to combat the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the region by rebel groups in particular.
Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I believe the debates have shown that we are all agreed: now we must act fast, very fast, in a terribly tragic situation.
The example of the Kimberley process certainly opens avenues to be explored in this sense and, in practical terms, the Commission has already released EUR 75 million for the programme in the east of the Congo, for rebuilding governmental structures such as justice and the police, and to re-establish resource exploitation monitoring.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 20 November 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) The resolution on the Republic of Congo represents a clear commitment for the European Union with regard to this part of the world.
I would like to thank the Commission for a particularly important signal given in recent weeks in the DRC: the allocation of a subsidy of EUR 75 million for a programme that aims to reconstruct the administrative and governmental structures in the country, including the justice and police systems.
