author. - Mr President, yet again we are confronted with a coup d'état in Fiji.
author. - (DE) Mr President, the military coup in Fiji has brought a country which is undergoing a tragic development to the attention of worldwide public opinion.
author. - (ES) Mr President, I too believe that we must condemn this coup d'etat, the fourth in twenty years, in a country, a former British colony, that is actually one of the richest and most developed in the South Pacific and that is among those with the most tourism.
Commodore Frank Bainamarama, commander of the Fijian army, deposed the elected prime minister and took power in a blatantly illegal manner.
I also ask that we consider imposing a travel ban to the countries of the European Union on the members of the army responsible for the military coup in Fiji and for the suspension of all aid other than humanitarian aid.
It is most regrettable that on 5 December, the army transferred power to the military and overthrew the democratic government; it is impeding freedom of the press, has expelled people from the country and has detained protesters.
We should act promptly now, in particular by suspending non-humanitarian aid to Fiji under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, and by imposing an EU travel ban on members of the junta, their families and their staff.
Firstly, we should condemn the coup, as we are doing in our declaration.
Commissioner Michel has strongly condemned this seizure of power; it was also condemned by the Finnish Presidency and the European Union on 11 December 2006.
The military takeover is a clear violation of Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement and the essential parts of it concerning human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
It means there will have to be consultations pursuant to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which may lead to appropriate measures being taken to rectify the situation, including as a last resort suspension of development cooperation.
The military takeover will damage the Fijian economy.
