Article 18 of the Declaration states that 'Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.' Your task as Special UN Rapporteur is to identify existing barriers or possible future barriers to the exercise of this right, and to propose methods and measures to counteract and overcome them.
I would like to very warmly thank the President, Hans-Gert Pöttering, for having invited me to address the European Parliament.
Your decision to designate 2008 as the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and develop various related initiatives is indeed timely and very important.
So, in my opinion, these dimensions should also be included in initiatives of intercultural dialogue.
Nevertheless, religions share many moral values which could and should make it possible for them to come to a common understanding of respect.
The Millennium World Peace Summit, held in New York in August 2000, brought together over 1 000 religious and spiritual leaders.
Artists may also play an important role in public education regarding religious tolerance and in building bridges between different communities.
The EU's Lifelong Learning Programmes can - and already do - serve as perfect platforms for intercultural and interreligious dialogue.
The various programmes are indeed examples of good practice: Comenius seeks to develop understanding of and between various European cultures through exchanges and cooperation between schools in different countries; more than 1.5 million students have already participated in the higher education exchange programme Erasmus; the Leonardo da Vinci scheme funds transnational mobility in vocational education and training; the Grundtvig programme provides new learning opportunities, especially for adults at risk of social exclusion and for older workers; and, finally, the Jean Monnet network is stimulating teaching, research and reflection on European integration at higher education institutions throughout the world.
The role of educational institutions is vital.
It adopted by consensus the Madrid Final Document, which recommended that teachers and students are provided with voluntary opportunities for meetings and exchanges with their counterparts of different religions or beliefs.
Furthermore, intercultural dialogue can also be used as a tool for emphasising the evil sides of the 'other'.
Accusations of defamation of religion might stifle legitimate criticism or even research on practices and laws appearing to be in violation of human rights that are - or at least are perceived to be - sanctioned by religion.
These are my ideas on the what, why, who and how of intercultural dialogue.
I hope your visit to the European Parliament will give us the opportunity for wider cooperation in our common mission for democracy, peace and development.
