Mr Cohn-Bendit has the floor in order to explain this request by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have taken on board one idea from among your proposed reforms, that being that this House should be more up-to-date, and should not wait to discuss certain events as late as four years after they happen.
One of them is summed up in Germany by the term ‘old meat’, referring to the fact that meat no longer fit for consumption was found in various German regions and now in other countries too, and we would very much like to hear, from both the Commission and the Council, what is actually being done to check that the same thing is not going on all over Europe.
We would like to hear from the Commission what it is doing about this, too, and not have to wait a few months before being able to debate what it is going to do in three or four years’ time.
We want to know what is being done right now to deal with these two disgraceful occurrences, and that is why we have tabled a written question and want a statement from the Commission and the Council that we can discuss – here in this House, during this part-session here in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we share Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit’s concern about what I understand is called It is a serious issue.
I suggest we look at it in the Environment Committee and then take the matter further from there, rather than taking up time in the plenary during what is an exceptionally busy week here in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have requested that the debate following the Commission statement on the ASEM Summit end without a vote on a resolution.
All that is needed now is for us to be informed about the results, so there is little point in drafting an additional resolution, and I move that we refrain from doing so. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I do not always agree with Mr&#160;Swoboda, but, on this occasion, he has got it right, and so we should agree to what he suggests. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I oppose this proposal for two reasons.
It is an important issue and it gives us the opportunity to discuss the promotion of democracy and speak out against the continued use of capital punishment in Asian countries.
I therefore oppose having the debate without a resolution. &#160;&#160; The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
Slovenia supports the integration of our neighbour Croatia into the European Union, but, at the same time, the people of Slovenia expect the Government of Croatia, as well as its citizens, to adhere more closely to the agreements entered into by the two countries.
It is unacceptable that Croatia should be building bridges and roads in a region where the international border has not yet been settled with finality, without such arrangements being subject to a prior agreement between the countries.
Its main theme was that public health can be promoted through political decision-making in all areas of life, and not just in the health sector.
Our decisions in matters of transport, trade and industry policy, the environment, social planning and social policy always have an impact on public health.
The European Union has a mandate under the Treaty to work towards this objective in all policy areas. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, this Saturday Toomas Hendrik Ilves, a member of our faction and Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was elected President of the Republic of Estonia by the electoral body.
I am very glad to be able to congratulate both Estonia and Europe.
The electoral body’s decision corresponded to the expectations of the democratic majority of our society, and after the Estonian presidential elections that took place on 23&#160;September, I can confirm that European democracy is alive and well in Estonia.
I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that it is unacceptable to allow such an important part of our continent to remain under the sole control of a single military peace-keeping force.
We should strive to ensure that in future the European Union has greater influence over how the situation in South Ossetia is controlled. &#160;&#160; () Speaking before the European Parliament, I&#160;would also like to voice my criticism concerning the announcement that the deadline for new Member States to join the Schengen area has been put back to 2009.
Therefore, I regard as unfair a situation where citizens of new EU Member States will have to wait beyond the end of the 2007 in order to travel without border checks.
I call on the European Commission to consider any and all options that would enable the original deadline to be met or, alternatively, pending the deployment of the new system, to allow the new Member States to be temporarily linked to the current system, SIS I plus.
Positive steps taken by the European Commission to meet the original deadline would help to strengthen the public’s faith in the European project as a whole. &#160;&#160; – I wish to speak on a similar matter.
I should therefore like to call on the Commission to inform this House as to the technical and legal difficulties that have arisen, and who is responsible for this situation, because the preparations have thus far gone according to plan.
Once I know what the problem is, I should also like to know who is responsible for the situation. &#160;&#160; – ) Mr President, I should like to relate an event that happened on 7&#160;September.
Last week I was in Romania in connection with an attack by police and hooded commandos against members of the local Roma community in Reghin (Szászrégen), which is in the district of Apalina.
I bring this fact to the attention of Parliament, because, on 26&#160;September we will have the last country report on the table.
I should like to call upon Commissioner Olli Rehn to do everything possible in order to change the situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week a tape was leaked, on which the Hungarian Prime Minister said: ‘We lied to the people for 18 months – in the morning, in the evening and at night, about the economy, and we lied to win the elections.’ It was followed by street demonstrations with tens of thousands of people all over Hungary calling for him to resign.
I hope we all agree on that.
It affects both parties in power and opposition parties.
I call on the Commission not to limit itself to expressions of concern but to make the evacuation of Russian troops and Moscow’s respect for the integrity of neighbouring states a credibility test for the new PCA. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Szájer has called on the Socialist Group in this House to take a position on what has been going on in Budapest and on the statements made by the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr&#160;Gyurcsány.
It is for each and every member of the Hungarian Parliament and of this House to decide for himself or herself whether or not Mr&#160;Gyurcsány did the right thing.
If you are, then this House is not the place for you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this September sees the 250th anniversary of the Douro wine region in Portugal, Europe's first wine region to be created and regulated.
It is appalling to destroy a regulation that has been in existence for 250 years.
The quality of port wine is the result of all of the know-how accumulated by the people of the Douro, who, with the aid of a particular climate and sunshine, have, over the course of 250 years on the banks of the River Douro, where this ancient regulated wine region is located, built up a rich heritage that has been recognised by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site.
They alleged that a woman had been mugged in Slovakia for speaking Hungarian while making a phone call.
I should, however, like to comment on the question of just who it is that has shown courage in the crisis in Hungary.
The Hungarian Prime Minister did not personally address the public about the extent of the lies, but he has admitted that he discussed the issue within his most immediate circles.
It is the person who blew the whistle on the problem that showed courage, and I think that we, as Members of the European Parliament, have to be very clear about that. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I believe that the European Parliament should urgently call on the Commission and the Council to readjust our immigration policy in the light of the humanitarian disaster that is being caused by the arrival of immigrants from Africa.
The problem must not be simplified or trivialised, as it was by the German representative last week at the Council of Interior Ministers, when he had the audacity to say that Spain was not going to sink because of 20&#160;000 or 25&#160;000 men arriving in the Canaries.
I believe the right path is for the European Union to adopt a clear, humanitarian stance and to provide a humanitarian and ‘civilising’ solution to this extremely serious problem of immigration. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, our petitions to the European Parliament often concern charges, complaints of procedural shortcomings in services, political protests and referrals to topical matters.
With the consent of Barcelona's shareholders and the United Nations, UNICEF and its work will be promoted by the Spanish club for five years, with all the money collected over that period used for humanitarian aid for suffering nations, mainly in Africa.
As demonstrated in practice, sport accompanied by other social or cultural action can unite people, just as we are doing today in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am charged with handing over to you about 100&#160;000 protests by Poles from Poland and across the world.
The resolution was intended to tarnish my country’s honour, and is already being used for that purpose.
It will also reveal whether truth can prevail in this House, or if Parliament will simply become a breeding ground for lies.
We shall appeal against this resolution at the European Court of Justice.
I believe those who supported the resolution base their views on Poland and its people on information drawn from the liberal media, which are hostile to our cause.
The Members concerned have never listened to , nonetheless they voted in favour of a document bearing no relation to truth or reality.
Secondly, no European flags have been burned in Hungary, and I call on Mr&#160;Tabajdi of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to confirm that.
Here, in this European Parliament, we should tell the truth and nothing but the truth. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when you were in Poland you expressed regret at the lack of contact between the institutions of Europe and its citizens.
You now have a unique opportunity to remedy the situation.
We are today handing over to you the votes of some 100&#160;000&#160;people, concerned about the activities of this House.
Some of them are from outside Europe.
People living in Slovakia’s ethnically mixed regions are often confused and do not understand what kind of tensions politicians and the media are talking about. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, according to information provided by the human rights and democracy centre in Hong Kong, 200&#160;people are still imprisoned in China because they took part in the demonstration in the Square of Heavenly Peace in 1989, seventeen years ago.
Now, however, he or she has to calculate the tax due on the purchase price.
Therefore, those who have demonstrated on the streets against the Government and in favour of a change of government are working against the Hungarian constitution and against the rule of law.
Once again, Hungary should abide by the rule of law and follow democratic rules. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I feel bound to raise an issue that ought not to be a concern for the European Union in the 21st&#160;century.
The results of elections in the German states of Mecklenburg and Western Pomerania were declared a few days ago.
I appeal to Members of this House to move a joint resolution condemning the German political system in which there is still scope for neo-Nazism. &#160;&#160; I apologise to all those Members who have been unable to take the floor, but we have considerably overrun the time allocated to this item. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would just like to make one comment.
What the Members present are saying is of course all very interesting, and the banners they have brought with them are very eye-catching, but I have made five unsuccessful attempts already at getting permission to speak.
I should also like to extend my especial thanks to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for its efforts so far.
The quality of life of hundreds of thousands of people is reduced every day and the natural environment is in danger, despite the significant reductions in emissions achieved over recent years.
The measures on small suspended particles will bring about a reduction in forecasts of premature deaths from approximately 350&#160;000 today to 160&#160;000 in 2020.
The Commission has promised to propose measures at European Union level to improve ambient air.
This will also address the problem of cross-border pollution.
Other Euro VI proposals will also be tabled for lorries and buses and the directive on national upper emission limits will also be reviewed, setting new emission limits for the Member States.
All these measures are currently being prepared and will of course be evaluated in detail in accordance with the principles of better lawmaking.
One of the main elements of the strategy is the proposed review of current legislation on ambient air quality.
The proposal maintains the current limit values for air quality.
The official statistics of the World Health Organisation clearly confirm that these limit values are needed.
The proposal introduces for the first time binding limits for small thin particles known as PM2.5, in other words particles with a diameter of less than 2.5 millionths of a metre.
Scientists unanimously maintain that these particles have serious repercussions on public health.
The proposal will, at the same time, require the Member States to start monitoring these thin particles carefully in all European countries.
Measures will also be taken with a view to reducing the average levels of exposure to micro particles of the population.
The repercussions on health are extremely serious and the data are incontrovertible.
In the United States, PM2.5 targets have applied since 1995.
The Commission proposal also gives the Member States greater flexibility as far as their compliance with current limit values for air quality is concerned.
Uncontrolled emissions from natural sources are not included in the figures.
These extensions must be as short as possible, in order to protect the health of our fellow citizens and not penalise the Member States which have made serious and credible efforts to comply.
I shall comment very briefly on some of the basic amendments proposed by Parliament: as regards the possibility of extending deadlines, the Commission proposes an additional five years from the date on which the limit values enter into force, in other words no later than the end of 2009, in conjunction with the facility to exclude emissions from natural sources.
With these arrangements, the Member States will clearly be in a position to comply with the directive.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed two five-year periods from the date on which the new directive enters into force.
Under this proposal, compliance will be delayed to 2018 for limit values already agreed in 1999.
The new amendment tabled before this plenary, Amendment&#160;81, is a move in the right direction, but again cannot be accepted because, if we accept four plus two years from the entry into force of the new directive, this will delay compliance until 2013 for the limit values for PM10 already agreed in 1999.
In other words, the Member States already recognised these limits back in 1999.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept any watering down of the daily limit value for PM10.
Amendments 46 and 81 increase the number of days on which this value may be exceeded from 35 to 55.
If these amendments were to be accepted, then according to the statistics for 2004, there would no longer be any need for measures to combat air pollution in cities such as Vienna, Frankfurt, Bonn, Stuttgart and others.
The amendment watering down the limit values likewise cannot be accepted, unless it is preceded by new Community measures to reduce pollution.
It is also impracticable, because it is impossible to predict the results of measures which have not yet been proposed and, in this case, would undermine the right of the citizens to clean air.
I think I must stop here. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs from the European People’s Party and Socialist Groups, Mrs&#160;Weisgerber and Mrs&#160;Corbey, for their cooperation, but I also want to thank the Commission and both the Austrian and Finnish Presidencies of the Council for their openness and willingness to engage in dialogue.
The problem of air pollution can only be solved in the long term and in a European framework, particularly by stepping up cross-border measures.
In order for the ambitious goals to be achieved, further instruments will be needed in the Community in future: clean air in the Member States can only be achieved if the directives which are in force are transposed consistently and if new EU legislative proposals concentrate on restricting emissions at the point where polluters cause them.
There is a large degree of consensus in this House about the lack of ambition inherent in allowing the 40&#160;microgram annual average value for PM10 to remain unchanged after 2010.
This value is already adhered to in most European cities.
The Commission had already announced a more stringent annual average value for PM10 with effect from 2010, but, as this present proposal makes no reference to it, the three big groups propose that the threshold value for PM10 be reduced to 33&#160;micrograms with effect from 2010.
I have to say, Commissioner, that I find it remarkable, in view of the criticism that these compromises attract, that you continually neglect to make this very point.
Nobody in this House would doubt the importance of carrying out daily measurements and informing at-risk groups of increased concentrations of pollutants.
The problems cities have with compliance with the daily limit value are no secret, and we abandon municipalities to a sort of organised helplessness.
The Committee on the Environment and the three main groups in this House endorse the compromise proposal according to which the cities and municipalities affected would, in tandem with a reduction in the annual limit value of approximately 20%, be allowed – albeit only subject to certain conditions – rather more flexibility and permitted to comply with a limit value on a maximum of 55 rather than 35 days.
There may be those who will have their doubts about the correlation between the daily and annual limit values proposed by this House, but nobody can claim with any seriousness that we are thereby being any less ambitious than the Commission and the Council.
We therefore propose a two-stage regulation for PM2.5, with, in the first instance, a target value from 2010 onwards, and, with effect from 2005, a limit value around 20&#160;micrograms; this too, is more ambitious than what the Council and the Commission are proposing.
A majority in this House agrees that the 25&#160;microgram annual average value as proposed by the Commission is lacking in ambition and that we should therefore reduce it.
I would like to reiterate air quality in Europe will be achieved only in the long term and only by means of actions targeting the problem at source, that is, the causes of pollution.
Your speech was very interesting – I believe that Parliament as a whole can testify to that – but you have exceeded your two minutes and ten seconds of speaking time.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to start with a brief word of thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for this topic, Mr&#160;Krahmer, Mrs&#160;Weisgerber and Mr&#160;Wijkman, along with all other shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this positive outcome.
Europeans die some nine months prematurely on account of air quality, and 350&#160;000 people die ten years prematurely.
In the thematic strategy, the level of ambition opted for lies between A, B and C and the Maximum Technically Feasible Reduction scenario.
All impact assessment studies indicate that even the maximum scenario is still cost-effective and that the ideal scenario lies between B and C.
Nevertheless, the Commission, incidentally without any further explanation, has chosen level of ambition A+, which, in terms of public health, is an incomprehensible choice.
A higher level of ambition is possible, as the United States has proven, and is also very cost-effective, as is evident from all studies that underpin it.
In the directive, the Commission proposes a new form for the finer particles, PM2.5.
The finest particles are most harmful to health and the standard is also more precise, because the smallest particles contain fewer natural sources such as sea salt and desert sand.
PM2.5 is therefore a better measure, although the way in which the Commission has fleshed it out is very disappointing.
Parliament has demanded a target and limit value of 20 µg/m3 for PM2.5.
This is considerably better than the 25 µg which the Commission and Council back, but still worse than the 15 µg in the United States and the 10 µg recommended by the World Health Organisation.
By introducing new provisions in the directive, the Committee on the Environment is hoping to galvanise the Commission into taking a more active role.
Member States will be under a clear obligation to make efforts.
The third pillar is an ambitious source policy.
Without source policy, without policy to make cars, freight traffic, shipping and industry cleaner, it is extremely difficult for the Member States, and certainly for the densely populated Member States, to make the air cleaner.
Serious source policy has a positive impact on air, the environment and public health, but ultimately also cuts down on energy and benefits the climate on account of reduced CO2 emissions.
Moreover, Member States must, if there is no source policy, be able to take their own source measures outside of the market.
If we are to achieve our main goal, that of effective and lasting improvement in air quality, it is vital that we establish limit values, but they, on their own, cannot improve the quality of the air; that can be done only through effective action to deal with emissions, such as the Euro&#160;5 emissions standard that has already been proposed and which makes soot particle filters mandatory for new vehicles.
That is why our annual limit values, at 33&#160;milligrams per square metre, are more ambitious than the Commission’s, and why we want more flexibility at the local level when it comes to daily limit values, which have been demonstrated to be largely subject to meteorological influences, since it is a proven fact that it is long-term exposure that is the most dangerous, and that is what we have to focus on.
At national and local level, too, everything proportionate and necessary must be done to improve air quality, and we are creating the right incentives for that as well.
Local authorities will have their deadlines extended to a maximum of six years only if they can produce action programmes that show that they have, within the bounds of proportionality, taken every step in their power to improve air quality; moreover, this concession will not be granted to all of them, but only to those that demonstrably have to contend with particularly unfavourable meteorological conditions brought on, among other things, by being located in basins.
It is a good thing that fine particles, the fine PM2.5 particles in fact, are included in the directive, and that binding limit values are to be set for them.
The limit value proposed by the Commission and supported by the Council is 20&#160;micrograms, as has been mentioned more than once here.
The WHO is proposing 10&#160;micrograms, and, as has been said here, in the United States of America and Canada they have already achieved a value of 15.
Air pollution is one of the main environmental problems in Europe, and people are exposed to it.
Here someone mentioned a figure of 360&#160;000-400&#160;000 premature deaths a year.
The limit value that is set can have a genuine impact on the number of human lives that can be saved.
We should nevertheless question, though, whether we in the European Union are on the right track and whether the legislation we are drafting is not symbolic.
Since the entry into effect of the Air Quality Directive in 2005, which specifies ceilings for PM10 dust particles, ten Member States have failed to meet the requirements.
Even before 2005, it should have been obvious to the Commission that Member States would not meet the limit values without a systematic source policy involving restrictions on exhaust fumes from cars, lorries and ships.
Between 2002 and 2004, approximately 96% of the cities exceeded the daily standards, and the annual standards were exceeded in various regions in southern Europe, the Benelux countries and in Germany, as well as in central and eastern Europe, accounting for some 73% of the cities.
Without source measures, that were often announced years ago by the Commission, stricter or less strict values for PM10 or PM2.5 serve no purpose whatsoever, and I am not even talking about nitrogen.
Effective policy must focus on long-term measures, and must therefore also include source policy, which this, however, does not.
The object of the legislation is commendable, but the path chosen to reach it is questionable. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, air pollution kills more than 300&#160;000 Europeans prematurely every year.
Experts in environmental health have said that the Commission’s proposal was bewilderingly inadequate, but will the European Parliament now give cause for even greater bewilderment?
It offered the excuse that in the distant future yearly limit values would come down from 40 to 30 micrograms per cubic metre.
This is only an apparent improvement, however, as the current limit value, if it may be exceeded on more than 35 days, in practice represents an annual average of 30&#160;micrograms.
It has been awful to witness how the negotiators in certain groups have taken guidance from the automotive industry.
Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you not to agree to the proposal by the Committee on the Environment or Mrs&#160;Weisgerber and others to postpone the entry into force of legislation, but to stand up for the rights of our citizens to breathe clean air. &#160;&#160; Air pollution causes major public health problems within the European Union.
Particulate emissions are the most important cause of these premature deaths, to which should be added all the health problems that affect people with asthma or allergies of one kind or another, children being an especially vulnerable group.
Air pollution also creates major environmental problems in the form of eutrophication, acidification and ground-level ozone.
There are clear reasons in terms of health and the environment for placing a strict limit on these emissions.
The Commission’s proposed thematic strategy and proposal for a directive on better air quality are therefore a disappointment.
The level of ambition is very low.
Unfortunately, the draft reports produced by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety are also inadequate compromises.
That is our position.
Tomorrow, I am standing down as a Member of the European Parliament, so this is my last speech in the House.
I wish to thank those fellow Members with whom I have worked during the last 11 years.
It calls on the Commission to bring forward a range of sector-based initiatives, including the following: reducing emissions from shipping; reducing emissions of ammonia from agricultural use; the extension of integrated pollution prevention and control measures for smaller units; more stringent emissions standards for vehicles, and the implementation of a national emissions ceiling directive.
We must stimulate a greater demand for biofuels in Europe and we must guarantee that the seventh EU R[amp]D Framework Programme for the period 2007 to 2013 is geared heavily towards the promotion of the biofuels sector within EU Member States.
The advent of biofuels is good news for the agricultural sector in Europe and in Ireland and it is good news for the medium- to long-term protection of our environment.
We need firm action in the European Union to promote the biofuels sector.
So far, Commissioner, you have always claimed that the Commission cannot agree to the idea of a possible delay in combination with new measures from the Commission.
I know it can be very tricky to negotiate all the difficulties in an issue as sensitive as this, but I think you managed it really well, and that is why we are indebted to you both.
Mr&#160;Sjöstedt, many thanks for the good teamwork; God bless. &#160;&#160; () I would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work on this important topic.
More than half of Europeans are living in conditions where the daily concentration limit is exceeded more than 35 times a year.
In the European Union the situation is worst in Benelux, northern Italy, and in the new Member States.
If the Member States and, especially, the new Member States for which EU law is still a&#160;new legal area and which are facing major economic problems, are required to implement a&#160;Framework Directive in their respective legal systems, along with four more pieces of legislation, three daughter directives and a Council Decision, it is clear that implementation will be fraught with difficulties, errors and incompleteness.
The public will find it difficult to identify the binding EU standards of air quality.
I therefore greatly appreciate the fact that the proposed draft will simplify the existing legislation by as much as 50%.
The targets set in the legislation, be it PM10 or PM2.5, or the date on which the Directive will come into force, should be ambitious but realistic.
However, we also need to tackle it through this directive, simplifying the previous legal instruments while bringing in this new standard for the smaller particles, the 2.5s, because we know those are the most dangerous to human health.
As he takes his environmental credentials across the ocean, may we hope that he influences the Americans too, to ensure they understand the need for environmental measures of this sort. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the rapporteurs for the work they have put in and for their capacity for compromise, which is reflected in these compromise amendments.
The main concern where improvement of air quality is concerned has to do with the limit values for PM10 and PM2.5 particles.
On 21&#160;June, the Committee on the Environment, Public Heath and Food Safety expressed itself in favour of ambitious limit values for these.
What is of significance for the EU’s Member States is that not only the limit values for good air quality are defined, but that the means should also be devised for ensuring compliance with them, and I would give the Euro&#160;5 emissions standard for private motor vehicles as an example of this.
Laying down ambitious limit values for air quality and developing instruments for ensuring that they are complied with can improve air quality, and hence also quality of life, in Europe for years to come, and that is what we must aim to do.
I have not been here very long – only ten months – but I can tell you, Jonas, that you have in this time become a dear colleague to me.
I wish you much success in your further career, and all the best. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety but, like Mr Bowis, I represent London, the city traditionally known as the ‘Big Smoke’.
I welcome much that is positive in the new proposals and the Krahmer report, such as the streamlining of the law, greater public accessibility to monitoring results, new limits for fine particulates and stricter ones for other pollutants.
However, I am very concerned about the effect in my city of postponing the deadlines, perhaps until 2018 instead of 2010, for hot spots.
I hope, for the sake of Londoners, that we will stick to deadlines that are as tight as possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to combat air pollution effectively and to get results in the area of health, then we have to adopt far more ambitious drafts in this House.
The poor excuse about certain Member States encountering difficulties in implementing environmental legislation is no longer acceptable, because people’s health is no longer a matter for negotiation.
The cost of diseases caused by air pollution is rising on a daily basis.
The Union must not grow weak, Commissioner, on environmental policy, as its cunning game of simplifying and merging the European legal texts would suggest that it has a tendency to do.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, although pollutants in the air are difficult to see, they do nonetheless jeopardise our health.
I need only say that the cost to the national health of these illnesses exceeds 10% of the gross national product.
I should like at this point to emphasise our support for the relevant amendment, Amendment&#160;73 by Mr Jonas Sjöstedt; if this amendment is rejected, Amendment&#160;54 by Mrs&#160;Hassi safeguards the minimum period of time during which derogations will be permitted.
We should emphasise that reducing the upper limit for concentrations of PM2.5 will certainly benefit European citizens.
However, recent studies have shown that a reduction in the order of 25 µg/m3 would only reduce premature deaths by 4&#160;500 whereas, if the reduction extended to 15 or 10 µg/m3, as the World Health Organisation proposes, premature deaths would be reduced by 13&#160;000 and 22&#160;000 respectively.
It should be noted that one of the strongest points of legislation on air quality is that the limit value of 50 µg/m3 for maximum concentrations of PM10 must not be exceeded more than 35 times.
The amendments supporting an increase in the number of days on which the limit may be exceeded from 35 to 55 significantly water down the directive, on the one hand and, on the other hand, do nothing to safeguard protection for public health and on this point I absolutely agree with the Commissioner.
Good luck for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the one minute I have at my disposal, I would like to point out that the Directive on air quality in Europe, together with amendments which significantly tighten up standards, treat the Member States that have only recently joined the Union on an equal footing as the so-called old Fifteen.
There would also be a significant increase in social and economic costs.
For the poorer social classes, the increased cost of living could neutralise any benefits gained from better air quality.
That is why we are in favour of extending the time period in which the standards are to be met, especially for the new Member States.
We shall vote against the restrictive amendments. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteurs, my dear Jonas, I think the compromise we have reached here is a good one, with its combination of demanding targets and flexible apparatus.
The transport industry, for example, is set to grow by 60% over the next 20 years.
This directive will also lead us to ask who, in future, will be researching into better fuels, for renewable fuels are not the only crucial issue; the question also arises of what fuels we are actually using now.
My dear Jonas, you have been a good colleague and have become a good friend.
I wish you all the best for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, everyone has the right to a clean and healthy environment and nobody should endanger the health and lives of other people.
This principle should be the cornerstone not just of our environmental policy, but of our would-be Constitution as well.
Some decades ago, industry was the main cause of air pollution and the diseases connected with it.
If we want to provide cleaner air for our citizens, we should change our traffic policy in cities.
When human lives are at stake, wishful thinking and soft recommendations are not enough.
We know that 20 gets us nowhere, and nor does 25, so why not vote for the Greens’ ambitious proposal of 12?
I hope that we manage, tomorrow, to save European clean air policy from being thrown away, for it would be a source of shame if Europe were to cast aside its leadership role and risk denying industry – the motor industry in particular – a future.
Air pollution kills over 350&#160;000 people in Europe, 65&#160;000 of them in Germany, and so it would be a good thing if we were to do more than just give out hot air. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should first of all like to thank Mrs&#160;Weisgerber, who has shown so much understanding, has listened so much and has also worked out a sound compromise with Mr&#160;Krahmer and Mrs&#160;Corbey.
Mrs&#160;Corbey, you are in favour of strict and new source policy.
I also know, and I am once again addressing Mrs&#160;Hassi when I say this – for Mr&#160;Blokland and Mr&#160;Maaten have said many things with which I am in total agreement – I also know why the Netherlands has voted in favour of this legislation.
Our fellow citizens know what effects the quality of the air can have on their health.
Parents are demanding that measures in relation to air quality be implemented because they want to know what kind of air their children are breathing.
We are therefore trying to be ambitious faced with this issue of air quality.
Pollution moves and reaches areas that are not in themselves sources of pollution.
Contrary to what is said in the explanatory statement, high levels of air pollution are not always recorded in densely populated urban areas.
The fight against CO2 emissions is at the heart of the proposed systems.
Thus, there are many contradictions in all of that.
We therefore need to be flexible.
Be that as it may, I should like to thank all of the rapporteurs for the compromise they have reached, which seems a good one to me. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission on its proposals and also the rapporteurs on having once again demonstrated their major commitment to the environment.
Of course people want ever cleaner air and a high level of protection.
In relation to the maritime transport sector, I agree with the aim of achieving a level playing field, but I also believe it is important to work within the International Maritime Organisation to designate the new sulphur emission control areas; otherwise, we shall drive part of the European fleet to register in non-EU countries where controls are virtually non-existent.
Lastly, it is important to continue implementing and developing the directive on the integrated prevention and control of pollution.
This directive will allow industries to continue innovating and to control their emissions more effectively, without forcing any plant closures.
My place of work, Brussels, as well as my home, Budapest, both figure among the darkest spots on the map of European air pollution.
With regard to suspended particles, for instance, Budapest had already exceeded threshold values within the first four months of the year, and it is not uncommon to see levels rise to 4-5 times the maximum.
For this reason, I welcome the new thematic strategy on air pollution, as well as the regulation of fine particles.
That is, they do not even have any idea how they might come closer to observing the limits that are so essential for ensuring public health.
As a closing remark, I would like to restate the importance of continued action to tackle air pollution.
I think that there is a consensus between Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the measures required.
On Amendments 49 and 50, the proposed concentration cap for PM2.5 is set at a level consistent with the stringency of the annual limit value for PM10, which the Commission is not proposing to change.
I shall give Parliament’s Secretariat a list detailing the Commission’s position on the amendments(1). &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
The Commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19, 21, 23, 26, 27, 29, 31, 32, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 65 and 80.
The Commission reserves its position on Amendments 54, 56, 58, 61, 62, 63, 66 and 75.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 5, 7, 10, 12, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 24, 25, 28, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 43, 46, 51, 52, 53, 55, 57, 59, 60, 64, 67 to 74, 76 to 79 and 81 to 84. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr&#160;Hegi on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the thematic strategy on the urban environment. [2006/2061(INI)] (A6-0233/2006). &#160;&#160; .
As regards the level of EU funding, these city dwellers are second-rate citizens of the European Union.
The Sixth Environmental Action Plan has set encouraging goals, but this time the Commission failed to propose legally binding measures and deadlines.
The referendum some days ago in Stockholm showed us that people liked the idea and only a minority of certain lobbyists oppose it.
In the EU-10 countries the repair and rehabilitation of housing estates is a crucial step forward in preserving social peace and improving city life.
That is the only survival strategy for our cities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to participate in this evening's debate on the thematic strategy on the urban environment, which the European Parliament has been waiting for from the Commission with particular interest.
I should like to start by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Hegyi, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for the full and ambitious report being examined today.
I also welcome the contribution by Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain and the Committee on Transport and Tourism and by Mrs&#160;Kallenbach and the Committee on Regional Development.
With the Sixth Environmental Action Programme, the Commission recognised the role which the urban environment plays in the lives of so many European citizens and undertook to take action in this sector.
The urban environment directly affects the way of life of millions of European citizens and also has important repercussions on the environment in general.
The purpose of the strategy in question is to promote and facilitate sustainable urban growth, focusing on environmental issues such as air pollution, external noise, high levels of traffic, emissions of greenhouse gases, chaotic building development, water consumption and waste generation.
The problems were easy to identify, but finding solutions to them was very difficult.
This mainly applies when the objective is to find solutions which can be tried and are viable and suitable for the plethora and variety of conditions and problems in the various cities of the European Union.
I can understand that from a theoretical point of view and agree in principle.
We already have legislation which has a positive impact on the environment and the quality of life in cities.
This will lead to better compliance with current environmental legislation and to improved cohesion between the various political and the various administrative levels.
This approach will be supplemented by other support measures, such as creating suitable structures, exchanging best practices and setting up incentives under the Community Structural Funds.
In real terms, for example, again in my own country, Ireland, 70&#160;000 fossil fuel-burning cars will be taken off the roads.
In conclusion, I strongly believe that it is only through a policy of integration in the areas of energy efficiency and environmental protection that realistic targets can be set and achieved for urban areas. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Hegyi for his very ambitious report and for the very good and fruitful cooperation.
It is self-evident that future urban planning must combine the ecological with the economic and social dimensions, including within it the creation of job vacancies and the promotion of education, culture and sport for both young and old.
The rapporteur is trying to save Budapest, his home city, and that is an honourable thing to do, but he is also trying to circumvent the subsidiarity principle.
For example, important though the protection of the environment is, it must not have the end result of making life impossible for businesses; the quality of urban life is dependent on the quality of the environment and on economic vitality.
We have to ensure that the subsidiarity principle is maintained; that is what I see our role as being, and that is the intention underlying our amendments. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Hegyi, on the work he has done.
I approve of the emphasis given in this report to a number of fundamental points: exchanging best practices and promoting the training of local players; controlling the growing volume of traffic and decoupling transport growth and GDP growth; encouraging people to save energy and improving the energy efficiency of buildings; making the implementation of sustainable urban management plans and sustainable urban transport plans compulsory for every urban area with more than 100&#160;000 inhabitants; and, finally, proposing a per capita target in relation to green areas in new urban developments.
Our aim must in fact be to create a framework that will give rise to local initiatives by leaving the choice of targets and solutions up to local decision-makers. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, many thanks to the rapporteur for this splendid report.
I also appreciate the way he has taken up an idea that matters a great deal to me, that being the idea of a new pact, of a new quality of cooperation between the European level on the one hand and the great cities in Europe on the other.
The last thing I want to say is addressed to you, Mrs&#160;Sommer: even Governor Schwarzenegger and his conservatives in California have moved on further than you have.
In the developing world, but also in parts of Europe, we notice that such urban areas can become completely unviable on account of traffic chaos, slums, pollution and land speculation.
Where clean drinking water, a dense network of frequent public transport, sound waste removal and affordable, good housing are absent, or health care, social work and education are inadequate, those cities become hell.
That is putting the future of our cities at risk.
If the Commission’s proposal from 2000 for a contract obligation for urban transport had been adopted without any amendments, this would have prejudiced the extension of tram networks and free public transport, as well as the creation of a dense and frequent transport network.
Similarly, street cleaning and the sheer dirt of our cities are a public health issue that ought to be on our agenda.
I hope the Commissioner will take it forward in that spirit. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to thank all those colleagues who contributed to this report in the hope that it will be adopted.
Luckily, this proposal had the support of all the parties in the House.
I am pleased that Parliament will soon adopt a resolution that recognises the importance of urban issues for citizens of the European Union.
The Commission will report to Parliament on the results of this monitoring.
I hope that Parliament can adopt a resolution supporting the strategy’s aims and objectives. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; – Cities play a key role in generating wealth: economic, social and cultural development constitute a driving force for growth and employment.
Sustainable urban public transport, the progressive introduction of environmentally-friendly modes of transport and technologies, and promoting the use of public and non-motorised transport rather than private cars are just some examples of the main priorities. &#160;&#160; The European Commission with the help of, Parliament and Council, produces many strategies meant to give guidance and disseminate best practise.
The financial interests in urban planning and development are such that it will take more than suggestions to ensure what we do now leads to safe liveable cities in the future.
I think it unacceptable that, even though the House authorities were informed by the city of Strasbourg as long ago as November 2005 that the latter still had to conduct negotiations in respect of the two buildings – known as IPE&#160;1 and IPE&#160;2 – with a Dutch pension fund, both the House authorities and the Bureau pressed on with the purchase negotiations and it was only our own initiative that prevented the deal going through.
It was this House’s Bureau that, in 1983, reviewed the acceptability of the rent charged and devised a new system of calculation based on comparability, on which basis the rent was calculated anew, and, since it was during the 1980s that inflation in France was at its height, the city of Strasbourg wanted the lease index-linked, albeit without any limit of time.
It was not for us to judge whether or not it was wise that the European treaties should lay down where the seat of Parliament was to be.
So, then, many thanks from me to all who have had a hand in this, combined with sadness that there were so many who sought to turn this into a media campaign without, however, taking any part in the real work that was done by the working party and in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The main conclusion of the investigation into the allegations on the two Strasbourg buildings is that there is no indication of illegality.
Although none of these points constitute unlawful acts, they surely cannot be condoned, still less repeated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall not be addressing you today in my capacity as the official PSE Group shadow, so I shall not be taking my three minutes’ speaking time.
I have become known in my short time in this Parliament as one of the leaders of the anti-Strasbourg campaign.
I would like to put it to Parliament today that the only people who have consistently mixed up these two debates have been, firstly, the Mayor of Strasbourg, who, when she addressed us during her hearing, reminded us that having such a debate was in fact quite dangerous because the Alsace region has a very symbolic meaning.
I stand here because I wish to ensure that the money that Dutch citizens pay into the account of the European Union is well spent.
I should just like to point out that, according to the auditors’ report, it has not been well spent and that this has in fact been, to put it mildly, ... &#160;&#160; .
I also have to say that the Committee on Budgets reacted very adequately by immediately setting up an internal committee of inquiry to examine all aspects of the case.
The fact that two public institutions make profits on each other’s backs is inexcusable, since it is still taxpayers’ money that is involved.
What matters are the taxpayers’ interests.
Turning to the buildings policy first, about which all speakers have had something to say, we now have before us a second report as a result of that article in the press.
The conclusions are therefore identical across the board, and most Members have quoted them.
We have been unable to identify any unlawful actions or corruption, but what we do know is that, over the past 20 years, the European Parliament has paid the City of Strasbourg quite a bit over the odds in rent, at least EUR&#160;32&#160;million and probably more, between EUR&#160;42 and EUR&#160;60&#160;million.
What is also unacceptable in my view is that the City of Strasbourg took the unilateral decision at one point to set aside EUR&#160;11&#160;million over that period for what it referred to as covering the risk of Parliament ever leaving its seat in this City.
These actions have dealt the relationship between the City of Strasbourg and the European Parliament a heavy blow, and it comes as no surprise, then, that this has cranked up the entire debate on Parliament’s seat.
Whilst I am aware that this is not what this discharge report is about, I do think that Parliament should, in a recommendation to the Council, finally make up its mind and say whether it wants to continue to have its seat in this city or not.
A number of general comments concerning the control system and method of controlling implementation of the European Union’s budget come to mind in the context of the debate on discharge.
I note with regret that the control system is rather general and superficial.
It was a good idea to postpone the discharge report because of the lack of clarity regarding the relationship between the City of Strasbourg and the European Parliament.
I fully support the content of the report and how it has been written.
We dealt with that in the Committee on Budgetary Control, where the report was adopted with 25 votes in favour and only one against.
I agree with Mrs Mastenbroek and Mr Busuttil, who said that the City of Strasbourg has worked with us in bad faith.
My final point concerns whether this report and the seat of the European Parliament are somehow linked.
The truth is that us coming here costs EUR&#160;209 million of taxpayers’ money every year.
Let us talk about it openly and try to find a solution, but separately from this report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I want to congratulate our rapporteur and the working party set up by the Committee on Budgets on their creditable handling of this matter.
For a start, our own administrators, our own Bureau – of which, or so I believe, our current president is a member – were in possession of information that was not supplied to us at a time when Mr&#160;Ferber was already working on his report.
Thirdly, I think that all those who believe the current debate on building policy in Strasbourg could be combined with the ‘one seat’ debate, should first be sure in their own minds – which I am not – how things stand as regards this House’s policy on the other places where it meets. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to use my minute to speak on paragraph 88 about the MEP pension scheme and the way the contributions are paid.
This is because some banks make bank charges to transfer the money and some do not, so that the amounts will vary.
Furthermore, as there is no euro currency in 13 of our Member States, the monthly payments will also vary with fluctuations in the exchange rate of national currencies against the euro.
When we had to choose between Strasbourg and Brussels, I voted in favour Strasbourg, so I am not addressing you from an anti-French perspective.
When we set the calendar of sittings for 2008, we could decide to meet each Tuesday in the city where the Commission meets.
We could be given a report on the day’s decisions and take all the votes requiring absolute majorities.
We have enough buildings, and now we must unite in demanding a single place of work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Ferber on the way in which he has presented the discharge and the report, and on his working methods.
I – being a mere acting member on the Committee on Budgetary Control – should also like to extend warm thanks to my group colleagues Mr&#160;Busuttil, Mr&#160;Stubb and Mrs&#160;Grässle, for the excellent working relationship we enjoyed with Mr&#160;Ferber, not least in the preparatory meetings of the working party of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Needless to say, he devoted the necessary attention to the issue of the buildings, the problem we faced with the City of Strasbourg.
Accordingly, whilst we Dutch Christian Democrats subscribe to the thrust of the Ferber report with regard to spending of the 2004 Parliament budget, as prepared and adopted in the Committee on Budgetary Control, I should nevertheless like to make a few observations, which I see in isolation from the Ferber report, not least because he has done an excellent job with regard to Strasbourg.
It is obvious that my party is opposed to this, not least on account of the fact that the discussion that is being held surrounding this topic – and I only need to refer to Mr&#160;Stubb's words, with which I am in agreement – should in actual fact be held prior to the purchase of buildings.
The environmental aspects in this connection have not been adequately addressed.
This was going to be more of a management approval exercise for Parliament, but the information apparently given to the press by the City of Strasbourg about the profit that it had made on the price paid by Parliament – by using a kind of middleman contract which it never explained – threw up, or turned this exercise into, something much more interesting, from which we have gained some important experience.
The working party found that the practice was legal and was also customary in these financial engineering real-estate contracts, as was what, in my view, is the improper use of actual middlemen.
On the other two subjects that have again been included through the back door – pensions and Parliament’s seat – I confirm that I share the opinion expressed several times in this House that that is not the solution proposed by the majority. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to take my turn in thanking Mr&#160;Ferber for having done an excellent job of carrying out the follow-up work in a context that was not only legally complex, but also quite often turbulent.
I am, of course, grateful to the Committee on Budgetary Control for having seen through its investigations aimed at shedding a little light on our debate.
The rehashing of this business with the lease of the Strasbourg building – which has been going on for 28 years – puts me in a very reflective frame of mind.
For 28 years, the House authorities did not check to see whether the leases were still good value – not even when the capital costs originally included had been written off, nor even when, in 1997, the Treaty of Amsterdam laid down that Strasbourg would be our seat, for it was at this point, at the latest, that it became necessary to assess the risk involved.
I would simply point out that, as we sit here right now, the Bureau, for its part, is sitting under the presidency of the President of Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The aim of the charter is to lay down common principles to make all types of mobility for learning purposes more efficient and more effective.
These principles include quality information and guidance for the candidates; a sound learning plan; preparation, especially linguistic preparation; adequate logistical support and mentoring schemes in the host country.
You have invited the Commission to encourage the use of a mobility charter by national agencies and other organisations.
To summarise, of the 36 amendments voted by the Culture Committee, only four have not been accepted by the Commission.
All the remaining 32 amendments have been fully integrated, either literally or with slight rewording.
Finally, as you know, Coreper last week agreed on the compromise text.
That should ease the agreement in the first reading.
But, before that, I am open to your questions. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad that we have been able, after long-drawn out wrangling, to agree on this document, and, moreover, that we have been able to produce it in good time before the Year of Mobility is over, for I do not think it would make much sense to roll out a Mobility Charter next year; that would not exactly have the desired effect on the outside world.
Quality must be guaranteed not only in the host countries in which students spend time, but also in their countries of origin, so that the best possible use can be made of their experiences when they return and can really be seen to be added.
I would also like to emphasise that mobility must not merely make them more employable; there is a purely personal benefit involved as well, for education is of value not least in that it is character-building, and should therefore ultimately also contribute to greater European understanding.
While I do believe that this document can set a lot of things in motion, that will depend on how it is received in the Member States.
That would be sure to diminish young people’s confidence in what we are doing and also in our intentions.
It is also important that the various educational systems be made transparent and capable of being compared with one another, so that young people can know what is in store for them in this or that country.
The rapid agreement made this a less than democratic process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Prets on her report and on her desire to make a success of a text that presents certain problems and that, although it is not a legislative text, is the expression of a strong commitment.
This Charter is part of an attempt to go one step further in establishing the idea that education is an area in which cooperation among the various national systems is becoming crucial.
The finding that, despite the wide variety of specific programmes, mobility has not increased, confirms that this Charter is a step in the right direction.
However, the Council has pointed out on more than one occasion that the area of education is a responsibility of the Member States.
The compromise reached is worthwhile even though the progress made still lacks ambition and, above all, depends on the goodwill of the Member States.
While the Charter will be able to help better coordinate the mobility plans, everything will obviously depend not only on the will of the Member States, but also on the demands of Europeans who, like their ancestors in the Middle Ages, ought to be able to go round Europe without having to negotiate a path full of pitfalls.
For that to happen, we need more Europe in the area of education and culture. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, today is a special day for the European Parliament and the Committee on Culture and Education and for our three honourable friends Mrs&#160;Prets, Mrs&#160;Trüpel and Mr&#160;Beazley, the rapporteurs on three separate reports on education in the European Union.
The mobility of European citizens in the education and training sector makes an important contribution towards improving the quality of their knowledge and broadening their experiences and skills and, at the same time, it is a unique tool for mutual understanding and better knowledge of the various cultures which make up Europe.
It is true that over recent years, thanks to the dissemination of existing education and mobility programmes, such as Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo, the mobility of young people in Europe has increased considerably.
Nonetheless, it is a fact that there are still a great number of other obstacles which hamper mobility.
Even today, the number of young people crossing the borders of their country in order to participate in an education programme is still at relatively low levels.
This is linked, among other things, to various practices and omissions on the part of the Member States, which directly or indirectly restrict the mobility of young Europeans.
To close, I should like to extend my especial congratulations to the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Prets, and to the other rapporteurs because, thanks to her work, the European Quality Charter for Mobility will be given more quickly into the service of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mobility in training and employment within the European Union is important in raising employment levels among European citizens.
In many countries, students and employees are already successfully using Europass, the use of which also needs to be expanded and improved.
Developments so far have demonstrated, however, that the numerous recommendations adopted to date in this particular area have resulted in progress towards specific goals, benchmarks and the fulfilment of agreements; as a result, we can see a broad range of activities pertaining to the Bologna or Copenhagen processes.
As Mrs&#160;Hennicot-Schoepges has pointed out, a common Europe needs more culture and more education.
I believe that this is the direction in which we are moving.
When the recommendation is adopted, it will advance coordination, transparency and culture, the evaluation of feedback concerning the effects of mobility and the conditions prevailing in individual countries and institutions.
I for one would like to express my gratitude and assure you that I am prepared to take follow-up steps, especially towards implementation. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; There can be no doubt that increased cohesion between European citizens depends on their mobility, mutual acquaintance, understanding and acceptance of cultural diversity.
Knowledge of languages and recognition of educational methods and systems are crucial to fostering the mobility of European citizens.
Considering the issue under discussion from this point of view, I would encourage Member States of the Union to: 1.
Create the conditions necessary for at least two of the national languages of the Member States of the Union to be taught at secondary school level, in addition to the mother tongue. 2.
The development of cooperation between relevant bodies in EU countries will allow them to work with their governments to devise and take responsibility for vocational training tailored to the needs of the whole EU. 3.
The so-called old Fifteen and the new Member States of the EU are equally responsible for efforts to promote increased mobility.
I would first of all like to express my gratitude to Mrs Trüpel of the Committee on Culture and Education, but also to the other committees involved in this report because others were engaged, and also to the political groups for their constructive discussions with the Presidency and with the Commission that have led us to the agreement on this recommendation on key competences.
All institutions have made efforts in order to find a balanced text and to allow a first reading agreement.
We all agreed on the importance of this proposal for European citizens and for developing consistent and comprehensive lifelong learning strategies which should help Europe to fulfil its goal of becoming a Europe of knowledge, a knowledge-friendly Union.
The purpose of this recommendation is to identify and define the skills that everyone needs for living, learning and working in a knowledge society.
I believe that this recommendation after approval should be translated as quickly as possible into concrete measures in order to help people in their studies and training.
I think that the recommendation now better addresses the literacy problem and the need for equal opportunities, the need for procedures to validate skills and to evaluate achievements.
This report, together with some other reports and with the programme which we will have from New Year 2007 for lifelong learning, could create much better conditions for the value of knowledge, for the value of qualifications and for a knowledge-friendly Europe.
I would like to thank you all for your cooperation in achieving this base for a recommendation and also I look forward to further support when we come to implementation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner Figeľ, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Commissioner Figeľ for his introductory remarks, and also for having so clearly summed up the spirit of this agreement at first reading, and explained the improvements in the text that our joint efforts helped make possible, pointing out that, ambitious though it is, it is now more sensitive to social factors and more balanced, which is a triumph for our joint endeavour.
It is intended that the Member States should be supported making policies enabling all young people, once their basic education is completed, to possess sufficient key competences to be able to embark on adult life, and adults to develop these competences in line with the latest knowledge throughout their lives.
The key competences are not ranked in any kind of hierarchy; while they are all equal in value, they do of course overlap, and they all contribute towards a successful life in a knowledge-based society.
These competences are defined as a combination of knowledge, skills and attitudes.
As I see it, we have, politically speaking, opted for the right approach in giving the Member States these definitions as guidelines for their educational policies, thereby enabling them to prepare themselves better for the future.
My particular concern was that it should, in the negotiations with the Council and the Commission, be made clear that, no matter how ambitious these key skills are – for we must all keep on learning if we are to succeed and be content in a knowledge-based society – the social aspect must not be forgotten, for not everyone starts from the same point or with the same opportunities.
That is why it is particularly important to help and support people with learning difficulties by reason of their background or social position, those who have dropped out of school, people with poor literacy skills, the long-term unemployed or people who want to get back to work after a long break, not least – and in particular – women returning to work after having children.
I regard this compromise as a good one, and so my recommendation to all the Members of this House is that they adopt this text in the version agreed at first reading.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted – unanimously, indeed – my opinion, in which we had achieved compromises across party lines.
The object of lifelong learning is the acquisition of key competences in order, not only to adapt oneself to change, but also, and in particular, to be an active agent of change.
The point of education is to ensure that our citizens have work.
Education is a matter that the Member States have to take decisions about, but if the EU and its Member States want to guarantee jobs for their citizens, as well as competitiveness, all our citizens should be included, and investments of time and money should be made in lifelong learning.
More and more, large numbers of teenage boys all over Europe leave school straight after finishing secondary education, and this leads to unemployment. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a recommendation puts forward a European reference tool for key competences of lifelong learning.
The recommendation should help to improve the quality of life for all EU citizens.
The recommendation attempts to define the skills that will form the modern profile of the European citizen, skills that all EU citizens could and should be able to achieve.
Its clear weakness is, of course, that it attempts to profile the citizen in all the complex aspects of life, yet without defining a hierarchy of the competences involved.
I feel there is a lack of emphasis here on how society must be based on mutual respect and democracy.
Globalisation presents us with huge challenges; ordinary people are obliged to adapt themselves with ever-greater speed and flexibility to new conditions, and in this, education – in both the social and economic sense – acquires strategic significance.
If you want equality of opportunity in Europe, you must ensure that education is made accessible to all and that disadvantages – whether resulting from personal, social, cultural or economic circumstances – are minimised, and this is particularly relevant in view of the forthcoming ‘Year of Equal Opportunities for All’.
It is particularly such disadvantaged groups as those whose parental homes or lack of primary education denied them the opportunity of secure and sound vocational training who must not be excluded.
People with learning disabilities, those who dropped out of school, the long-term unemployed and those returning to work after having a family – which means primarily women – not to mention older people, migrants and the disabled, must be supported in their endeavours by targeted policies and programmes, such as those for lifelong learning, although we are well aware that the regulation of education systems is largely a matter for the Member States and is also highly diverse.
In this context, it not only contributes to achieving the Lisbon objectives or to coping with globalisation, but also greatly enhances our quality of life.
It often gives people a second chance or, indeed, a third chance, or simply another chance.
As a former teacher of 20 years, I am fully aware that formal schooling is just one part of education and that lifelong learning should be a natural continuation of that process.
Striking a positive note, I would like to observe that this will provide a frame of reference for key competences, which make it possible for people to adapt themselves to a changing labour market in a knowledge-based society.
I would also like to say how glad I am that this proposal advances the development of national strategies for lifelong learning and thus also curriculum reforms, while also, of course, promoting the standardisation of adult and continuing education in the Member States.
I also welcome the recommendation relating to the inclusion of people with special needs, about which much has been said, and about how to bring the European dimension into civic competences, which means how to impart knowledge of our European history and foster awareness of our European cultural identity.
Let us instead build on it a realistic possibility for all members of the public to acquire basic skills and develop them. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, as a country, the Republic of Estonia, which was restored fifteen years ago, is a winner.
Among the working population, the winners are the young people, who in this new situation quickly acquired the necessary diploma and skills.
With the increase in life expectancy, a forty-five-year-old worker will be only half way through his or her career.
This means new initiatives in middle age, although age discrimination is still undoubtedly a reality for workers in middle and lower-level jobs throughout the world.
This report, this recommendation concerning key competences, is about using the same funds more efficiently so as to ensure better outcomes.
This understanding of key competences implies a kind of equilibrium and a single space both for economic competitiveness and social cohesion or social responsibility.
The same argument can be used regarding the relationship between the humanities and the natural sciences.
Both are necessary.
I believe that the key competences reflect this.
As Mrs&#160;Pack has said, this serves as a basis of reform for many countries in the Western Balkans, the new Member States, and even in the old ones.
I would also like to underscore what Mrs&#160;Harkin has said, namely that the key competence is learning to learn rather than wait for encyclopaedic knowledge to be acquired in school; being able to handle information, experience and an environment which are increasingly more complex and more global.
In addition, the cultural faculty for perceiving and expressing oneself, as well as interpersonal and intersocial relations are extremely important in shaping personalities and mature citizens.
I would therefore like to thank Mrs&#160;Trüpel again for her excellent presentation of the committee’s position.
This is a process. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – In the current context of globalisation, the world of work, which has become complex, multifaceted and subject to high-speed changes, is a source of insecurity and anxiety.
That is a national competence and the national, regional, and educational authorities in our Member States vary.
I hope attention has been drawn to this in committee and I hope that the Finnish Presidency will be able to confirm by correspondence that this item will be included on the agenda of the next Council of Education Ministers meeting in Brussels on 13&#160;November.
Parliament held a hearing on the teaching of history and its European dimension two years ago.
Looking across Europe, our understanding and our use of languages is very imbalanced.
As English increasingly becomes a ‘lingua franca’, for those of us with English as our mother tongue that is a real problem in terms of motivating students to study and teachers to teach foreign languages.
This report is a call to the Council of Ministers for action.
This report could also be inspirational, therefore, for the Council and the Member States.
In his report, Mr Beazley touches on serious and specific problems.
In the last joint report by the Council and the Commission on progress in the Education and Training 2010 programme, we concluded, for example, that ‘despite some promising initiatives on mobility and participation in EU programmes, there is still a lack of national strategies on the European dimension in education’.
Policies that would ensure that, after initial education, young people have the knowledge and competences they need as European citizens – not only as tourists but as citizens – are piecemeal and fragmented.
However, it can also be seen as European citizenship or European identity, with rights and duties as citizens, active participation and a sense of belonging to Europe.
It is thus important to have clear views on how to integrate the European dimension in school curricula and how to provide schools with both the material and the opportunities to learn about Europe in practice.
The Commission has already started this work.
Among our programmes, Comenius, for example, supports projects with partners from different countries working on developing the European dimension.
The ‘European SchoolNet’ is a good example of an interactive and virtual tool for networking and for dissemination.
The Youth Programme also aims to familiarise young people with the concept of a European dimension in their lives through exchanges and especially through voluntary service.
Transnational projects like these are an excellent example of the European dimension in practice.
The recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning, which we have just discussed, is an important step forward.
Similarly, our work with national experts on teacher training stresses the importance of European knowledge, mobility and networking.
These are a very important part of teachers’ professional development.
I fully agree with Mr Beazley.
The Commission shares the view that much more needs to be done to raise awareness of the many good national and European initiatives.
The Commission continues to work with Member States, for example co-financing projects within Comenius and supporting multilingualism, and we will encourage Member States to develop the European dimension as part of their lifelong learning strategies.
Therefore, for all these reasons, I see this report as providing major input into the Commission’s reflections on the issues of education and citizenship. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Beazley report presents us with a concept that is difficult to pin down, namely that of the European dimension.
There are issues of great interest to the construction of the EU that go hand in hand with the European dimension, such as scientific and technological progress, which is as much an integral part of Europe as of any other part of the world.
The national aspects of these realities have often led to the kinds of partnerships and relationships, and antagonism and conflict, that can be found in relations between neighbours.
In view of this situation, I consider it necessary for us to develop at a European level what is laid down in Article&#160;149 of the Treaty, which states that the Union should develop the European dimension in education, particularly through lifelong learning and the teaching and dissemination of the languages of the European Union.
The Commissioner has already mentioned some examples that are leading in that direction, but this report must help to strengthen this requirement even more at a Community level, not only in order to provide the necessary skills in the area of European citizenship, but also to help citizens learn about the Union’s policies and institutions.
We have to ensure that there is not just a regional and national dimension, but also a European dimension to our children’s identity and thinking, and that they understand what kind of community of values they belong to and what sort of intellectual heritage they have.
It is impossible to establish European citizenship without the active support of a proper education system.
The education system happens to be a means for a state coercion, many times at the expense of cultural plurality and diversity.
The EU Member States cannot have one single overview of their history, because the success of one nation has often meant the failure of another.
In Europe, there is no nation that can stand above the continent’s history, providing a viewpoint that would suit everyone without offending anyone.
The idea of a shared European history can be at best only a compromise.
Showing tolerance of historical and cultural differences would be a first step for Europeans towards sharing their values with other countries and cultures around the world.
At the same time, tolerance and understanding will become the basis for defining shared European values.
Young people should learn foreign languages, but should also recognise the culture and history of other countries.
Any effort to create a globalised society with one single approved culture, in which it is possible to communicate in only a few languages would make Europe’s intellectual and economic development grind to a halt.
The EU is a political project – a project which has failed to persuade millions of adults, as shown by the results of the French and Dutch referendums last year.
This, like so much else from this Committee, is sheer one-sided propaganda, and I will not tolerate or support it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the document under discussion refers to a European dimension in education and the inclusion of European content in education.
Our shared history consists mostly of wars against each other, but what does our common cultural heritage amount to?
The European Qualifications Framework is a meta-framework with three functions.
Secondly, it is intended to ensure that vocational and general educational qualifications are recognised and capable of being recognised and transferred, and, thirdly, it is intended to ensure greater transparency, permeability and mobility.
The European Qualifications Framework must have as its goals those of, , growth and employment, as set by Lisbon II, combining on the one hand the competitiveness of businesses and, on the other, the employability of individuals.
The Committee for Employment and Social Affairs shared my objections, and I was very glad to see my colleagues – many of whom are present today – submitting proposals and, apart from three abstentions, voting unanimously to adopt this report.
What is most important to us is that vocational and academic education should be treated as being of equal value, being two sides of the same coin, namely the Bologna process aimed at creating a common European framework for higher education and the Copenhagen process for enhancing European cooperation in vocational education.
The European Qualifications Framework will succeed only if national qualifications frameworks come into being in all the Member States, if it is then possible to develop them, and if they can be properly coupled to the European Qualifications Framework by 2009.
It gives us the opportunity to reflect the formal proposal adopted this month, because I am sure that lifelong learning and mobility are crucial to our competitiveness and social cohesion in the European Union.
The Commission has always taken positive steps to make progress in these fields.
However, in practice people in Europe still too often face obstacles when they try to move from one country to another to learn or work, and when they want to become citizens more than tourists in the Union.
The EQF will help to solve that problem.
It could also be instrumental outside Europe, because when I was in Moscow or, in June, in Canada, both countries – Russia and Canada – expressed interest in knowing more about this instrument because they would like it to inspire their policies.
We already have legal instruments, such as the directives on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
I therefore consider that Parliament and the Commission are very much following the same line on this issue.
So those are good messages for our work.
I am sure that this key initiative is helping people in Europe to face the challenges and reap the benefits of a knowledge-based society.
Greater mobility within the labour market and an effective lifelong learning system are the basic, essential conditions for this.
The lack of communication and cooperation among the national authorities and among the training systems at various levels is preventing the skills and knowledge already acquired from being used effectively.
For this reason, we need to promote a certain interplay among the education and qualification systems of the various Member States.
It must ensure that qualifications relating to vocational education and training are recognisable, compatible and transferable, as Mr&#160;Mann rightly maintains.
This will mean increasing and improving the exchange of information in terms of titles, qualifications, certificates and professional experience recognised in the Member States.
In its current state, however, and as it is conceived in the Commission proposal, the European Qualifications Framework does not appear at all clear; it needs to be made more understandable, and certain aspects that now appear inconsistent need to be revised.
We therefore suggest that the Commission revise and reformulate its proposal, while nevertheless maintaining the objectives. &#160;&#160; – () I am pleased to observe that the entire area of life-long education and training has recently moved from a marginalised position into centre stage.
The review of the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment and the need to fulfil its goals have been a major incentive.
As early as 2000 an important step was taken in adopting the Education and Training 2010 work programme, aiming not only to improve the quality and efficiency of education and training systems but also to make them readily and broadly accessible.
The proposed concept of the European Qualifications Framework that we are discussing today is a concrete initiative arising from the work programme.
It should also stimulate national and sectoral reforms for the promotion of lifelong education, while playing a substantial role in fostering the mobility of students and employees.
I agree with the rapporteurs’ recommendation to simplify and make more transparent the eight-level reference scale that constitutes its basic element.
I believe that although the European Qualifications Framework is voluntary, it will, along with national qualification frameworks, establish a system that will help tackle obstacles in the European Union’s labour market.
I am convinced that the business sector will also appreciate this initiative by the European Commission, as it will make the diverse national qualification certificates easier to understand, and employers will then be in a&#160;position to use the European Qualifications Framework as a&#160;reference tool in selecting highly qualified staff on the basis of education, skill and competency. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the European Qualifications Framework, the Union is providing itself with a tool that can certainly be improved, but that is key to developing mobility within the European Union.
The mobility of businesses and European citizens actually opens up a new labour market at Community level.
For all European employees, be they engineers, technicians or manual workers, professional qualifications are the only genuine guarantee of their value in the labour market, both at national and at Community level.
Just as the single currency, the euro, is a shared value in terms of guaranteeing that the economy is flexible and integrated into the Community, we need a shared value for professional qualifications that is recognised on the European labour market.
This framework is designed to promote the recognition and use of qualifications and skills that have already been acquired and thus to facilitate access to lifelong learning for everyone.
The fact that 32 countries are participating in this form of cooperation makes possible a broadly-based development of education and training and employment opportunities in Europe.
The very fact of concentrating on qualifications already acquired is an important breakthrough.
If EQF is to be a success, it is also important, as the Commissioner has already said, for all the countries to be involved voluntarily and to introduce their own national – or, where relevant, regional – framework systems for assessing qualifications.
It is important to build on the work already done on assessing the quality of education and training and to avoid setting up unnecessary bureaucracy.
The main difficulty is that knowledge and ability are non-material goods, and, as such, very hard to standardise and measure.
People who were very good at school, for example, often get nowhere in day-to-day working life, since the qualities measured and marked in school are often quite different.
The qualification framework would foster a much closer connection between Member States’ national education systems and the requirements of the European Union’s employment market.
The most recent enlargement created an unprecedented increase in the mobility of the labour force within the European Union.
Jobseekers have travelled from various new Member States in central and eastern Europe to the United Kingdom and Ireland – older Member States, which were the only ones to open their labour markets without restrictions.
A not insignificant number of workers with university degrees work in jobs that require basic training of just a few hours.
Those are the difficulties in comparing education systems that are completely different.
Those are both resources that are lost to the states from which jobseekers come, and wasted resources in the states in which they cannot make use of their professional training.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Mann on his interesting report.
The mobility of students and workers can only come about, however, if the problems concerning recognition of certificates and diplomas are finally resolved.
This requires the European Union to set European Qualifications Frameworks.
The work set in train in Bologna, Barcelona, Copenhagen and Maastricht must be carried forward.
For example, a Polish certificate in bricklaying should be recognised in Germany and a German one in Poland.
A common denominator for capital investment already exists, namely the euro. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, it is true that Europe has, during the course of its history, faced many challenges and serious threats, such as unemployment, poverty and job insecurity.
With respect for European values and our social sensitivities and with knowledge as our epicentre, we can follow a development course, bearing in mind that the globalisation of economic activity, social progress and environmental protection are based on the continuous development of new skills and the use of new technologies.
I would therefore like to emphasise several aspects important to the entire issue.
The European Qualifications Framework is moving in just that direction.
Secondly, this is a follow-up contribution to what we have already done: the Europass adopted in this Parliament helps make qualifications more transparent, but the Qualifications Framework will be instrumental in making qualifications compatible and comparable, and will thus enable their transfer.
If we manage to adopt it definitively, it will provide a good framework not only for employers and employees but also for education and training providers, as it will open up this space and as a result will bring pressure to bear for improvements in quality.
Mrs&#160;Jensen has mentioned 32 countries.
I believe that this will be instrumental in ensuring that a plumber, for example, whether Polish or from another country, is not perceived as a threat but as a very important contributor to mobility and competitiveness in a common Europe.
Let us keep up the good work on this Qualifications Framework. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
