The objective is that, by 2010, all models of car should meet the requirements of the four EEVC documents.
In that way, we shall be part of the process and be able to check that the goals we have set are really being met.
We have now reached a compromise and shall therefore support this in order to obtain as much backing as possible for the demand for a framework directive as the best solution where the issue of road safety is concerned.
Remember that anti-lock braking systems fitted as standard will be part of this package.
Some groups have been guilty of gross over-simplification about the problems involved.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for years, and in vain, Parliament has been calling on the Commission to produce proposals for binding legal instruments that would compel the automobile industry to reduce the risk of injury to pedestrians in the event of a crash by means of passive safety measures on the front of motor vehicles.
The motion for a resolution before us now will motivate the automobile industry to step up its research into passive and active safety for pedestrians, rather than - as individual lobbyists fear - contributing to the crippling of development.
Whilst reference is made to the importance of the EEVC's research and development programme, we call for the quality of the four systematic tests in phase B to be further developed.
We are also torn between our responsibility in matters of principle and, at the end of the day, the responsibility many people see us as having for many of the details.
We succeeded in establishing fruitful cooperation with the other groups, and particularly the rapporteur, and reached a balanced report with sufficient support from Parliament and in which, therefore, a very clear signal is being given to the Commission.
Mr President, we have tabled a series of amendments in this respect and we ask for them to be looked at or at least to be voted on.
The agreement with the automobile industry which we are discussing here is partly illustrating why that is.
As for its content, the four EEVC tests will need to occupy centre stage, because they prescribe higher requirements and, in so doing, offer a higher level of protection for weaker participants.
As we all know, the Commission communication we are examining today is about a commitment by the European automobile industry designed to increase the chances of survival of pedestrians and cyclists involved in collisions with motor vehicles.
First, we consider that the voluntary commitment being negotiated with the automobile industry represents a first step towards improving road safety and, secondly, we are asking the Commission to come forward with a framework directive in which a clear, realistic time schedule is established for the intermediate and final goals to be reached, as well as methods for monitoring assessment.
However, they can only be usefully allowed within an agreed legal framework that gives Parliament the right to participate, particularly where the objectives to be set, the results to be achieved and monitoring are concerned.
The compromise that has been achieved represents the new decision-making culture and is a step forward for dealing with matters faster and more flexibly.
New technology makes it possible to improve road safety in general and hence also pedestrian safety.
These tests have taken 22 to 24 years, although some adjustments are taking place.
I do, in fact, share the view of Mr Van Dam who claims that these adjustments can be made a great deal faster.
This is why we state in our amendment that we would ideally like to see this before the end of this year.
Once again, I should like to ask a number of groups - for a number of those are agreed - to consider Amendment No 9, particularly part one, which is about submitting this relatively simple framework directive to us before the end of the year, and this according to the criteria that have been laid down in the low-key consultation between all of us.
It is sad that the European Commission wanted to meet this wish and that some of the Right-wingers in this Parliament were prepared to endorse this.
As has been said, though, we Members of this House are, as I see it, obliged to check up on the Commission and on the industry to see whether they actually merit our trust and whether they really are promptly and effectively putting their promises into practice.
I take the view that, should this directive and this system come to pass, we in this House must also be free not to insist on all the old technical standards.
Mr President, I celebrate the fact that this report brings nearer the prospect of safer car fronts and therefore fewer pedestrian, cyclist and motorcyclist deaths.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's communication, which seeks to bring about a voluntary agreement between car manufacturers operating on the internal market in order to increase the protection afforded to pedestrians and other road users, is certainly a major step forwards in the area of road safety.
A negotiated agreement would therefore be an initial positive step towards improving road safety, and the commitment could still be improved in time and monitored.
Mr President, the non-binding motion for a resolution accepts for now the voluntary agreement by the European car industry.
We welcome manufacturers' development of pedestrian-friendly car fronts, automatic braking systems and the use of daylight running lights, although obviously there is controversy on that particular topic.
We welcome this because we are assured that these measures can be implemented relatively quickly.
It is not as binding or as transparent as legislation, and there is a real lack of confidence expressed by the pedestrian protection bodies.
The car industry itself admits - and none of us can be happy about this - that it has not been proactive in the past 22 years.
But we ask the Commission to come forward with a framework directive that will lay down a clear timeframe and detailed monitoring methods because at the end of the day we must protect the most vulnerable and pedestrian safety in our communities is of the utmost importance.
The issue is a lot more serious than that.
We must therefore forget the political approach; we have to support the Commission's very rational proposal and, likewise, the excellent work undertaken by the rapporteur, Mrs Petersen.
When considering which approach to take to this issue, the choice has been between a voluntary commitment from industry on the basis of agreed objectives and the traditional route of legislation.
After talks with the European Commission, European motor vehicle manufacturers, represented by ACEA, committed themselves in June last year to introducing a range of measures starting this year, actually in January 2002, leading to a high level of pedestrian protection.
In a communication adopted in July last year, the Commission presented to the European Parliament and the Council the main elements of the industry's commitment and invited both institutions to express their views on it.
The Commission would decide thereafter whether to accept the industry commitment or to propose legislation.
On the passive safety side, manufacturers have agreed to design cars according to a series of tests introduced in two phases, starting in 2005, aimed at verifying that the car design will minimise injuries to pedestrians involved in an accident.
Regarding active safety, industry has taken three additional initiatives: firstly, to equip new vehicles with ABS from 2003 onwards, secondly, to introduce daytime running lights on all vehicles from 2002 (it should be noted that this refers only to the technical prescription of DRL, but it does not supersede national laws on the use of DRL), and, last but not least, industry is committed to progress and report systematically on the introduction of additional active safety devices to improve pedestrian protection, such as adaptive speed limiting devices.
Since then, an intensive debate has taken place in the European Parliament and the Council in the past few months on the options presented by the Commission in its communication.
Firstly, the Commission welcomes the support expressed by the Transport Committee for the objectives and timeframe proposed in the Commission communication for the introduction of pedestrian protection measures.
If a majority of the European Parliament agrees to this approach, the Commission is willing to put forward a proposal for framework legislation, based on the relevant measures of the commitment.
The debate is closed.
I thought that it would also be helpful for the report to cover the implementation of the European Charter for small enterprises.
I wanted to present a simple and specific report to you based on the work done by the Commission and the Member States over the last two years.
I am also calling on the Commission to provide us with better information on progress with structural reforms in the Member States.
The regulatory and administrative environment in which our companies have to operate also has an impact on their competitiveness.
We need to bear in mind that small enterprises employing fewer than 50 people provide jobs for 65 million people in the European Union.
In other words, it is better to legislate, taking account of small enterprises, which means serving 65 million people more effectively.
I wanted to emphasise the methodological problems that are impeding the Lisbon strategy while advancing some specific proposals likely to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs and applicable in the context of small enterprise.
I hope that this House will support this approach.
The Lisbon agenda is an important one for the economy and future of Europe and the European Union.
Firstly, the report details the very low levels of investment in research and development - 1.19% of GDP inside the European Union.
One of the recent studies in the United Kingdom suggested that the end of vehicle life directive, for example, cost GBP 400 million a year and benefits the environment only to the tune of GBP 100 million a year.
So we need to be aware of the impact of our legislation on business and jobs.
Therefore we support the Chichester amendment in principle and will be voting in favour of it.
Mr President, Commissioner, at the European Council in Lisbon the desire was expressed to harmonise and standardise the capitalist format for all Member States of the EU.
Different countries have different public services and operate on different principles regarding social welfare.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, whenever I hear the Lisbon objective of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world within ten years mentioned, I always wonder whether we actually think that, before the Lisbon Summit, the Heads of government were trying to advocate less competitive economies.
I believe that, instead of imposing and proposing grand objectives, it would be better to try to do some of the necessary, useful things that need doing, and this report rightly specifies some of the issues that need to be tackled such as market liberalisation, achieving a more integrated securities market and opening up the export markets for European businesses.
I would like to end by saying that it is right that we should concern ourselves with small and medium-sized businesses in Europe: in Italy, small and medium-sized businesses are the backbone of the economy.
It is certainly clear that we all need to be aware that SMEs and SMIs play an important role not only in the economy, but also in society, by promoting economic and social cohesion.
We have found that Europe's companies are not sufficiently internationalised, neither within the single market nor outside the European Union.
SMEs also need to come up with new forms of work organisation, but these changes should in no case be at the expense of workers' needs in terms of security.
That is a vital challenge to Parliament.
The basic principle at work here was that small enterprises are an important source of dynamism, innovation and entrepreneurship.
For this reason, per capita GNP in the EU is only 65% of that in the United States.
There are various reasons for Europe's poor levels of competitiveness, but the report highlights the poor levels of investment in information technology and communications technology and poor levels of utilisation of investment.
The results of this are visible in industry, but also in services.
Last week the Commission submitted a proposal on this and I am very pleased with the speeches the honourable Members Mr Chichester and Mr Titley have made here on this issue.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, in particular Mrs Read and Mr Harbour, and the Commission Secretariat, for their pleasant cooperation, and state that I, as the rapporteur, am delighted to have submitted this report.
The Member States have committed themselves to applying these guidelines for government websites and the European Commission is monitoring the progress of this process.
Which brings us to the question what these guidelines actually mean for government institutions.
The report therefore asks Member States to set up information points where users can lodge their findings and complaints.
The report also pays attention to the candidate countries.
The digital revolution will improve the quality of their lives and access to services.
That is something the Commission is also working on, but we are right to emphasise that in our report.
I am keen to encourage both of those aspects, but overall this report is extremely worthwhile.
Indeed, access at its best is the great equaliser, the great force for democracy.
That is why this report is so important: it is providing a mechanism in terms of active citizenship, which is becoming more and more important, for instance electronic democracy.
I want to draw attention particularly to paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution, and I shall quote from it, because it says that disabled people not only should be able to read web pages, but also should be enabled to manage the content of web pages.
My final point is that this is all part of the Lisbon agenda, making Europe e-friendly and e-workable, and it is going to mean that if this principle is carried through into other areas of work, disabled European Union citizens will be able to participate on much more equal terms in this respect than we have seen to date.
The rapporteur draws attention to the availability and compatibility of special hardware and software.
As regards the priority of the accessibility of the content of sites, particularly for the elderly and people with disabilities, I feel that we must focus our attention on civil and political rights, on the accessibility of these rights through the Internet.
I believe that this is the priority as far as content is concerned.
The number of old people is increasing.
The Commission Communication on web accessibility is an integral part of the eEurope 2002 Action Plan adopted at the European Council of Feira in June 2000.
One of its specific aims is to ensure that people with disabilities benefit fully from new technologies and the Internet.
The Commission is committed in particular to promoting the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) guidelines, which provide a voluntary mechanism for public information providers and website builders to conform to a set of informal rules on designing and structuring websites.
Many of the Member States have already taken steps towards this goal.
The Commission therefore welcomes the overall level of interest and satisfaction that this communication has received from the European Parliament.
Most of these objectives are also set out in the Council of Telecommunications Ministers resolution on this subject.
The Commission has already taken steps systematically to monitor progress in adopting and implementing the guidelines at European level as part of the eEurope benchmarking effort.
We agree with the requirement that web sites developed by the Commission and other European institutions should follow these guidelines.
The Commission will continue its fruitful dialogue with organisations representing people with special needs, including the disabled and the elderly, to have their experience and guidance in these matters.
I am convinced that the European Parliament resolution on this subject will be a significant milestone in understanding the role and importance of accessibility in the inclusive information society.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, on a point of order on the same issue, there is a distinctly unpleasant odour permeating this building, not just in this Chamber, but outside as well.
Mr President, I just wish to declare that, due to a financial interest which has been registered with the parliamentary authorities, I will not be participating in this vote.
As you know, the Commission supports the Council common position because it is fully consistent with the essential objectives pursued in the Commission proposal.
The Commission would like to confirm that it accepts Amendments Nos 1, 3 to 8, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 16.
With regard to Amendment No 17, the Commission can accept it, although it considers that a minor redrafting is needed to avoid any legal misinterpretation.
Amendment No 9 introduces transitional provisions to safeguard the acquired rights of existing insurance intermediaries.
The Commission has already accepted Amendment No 15, which expresses the same objective in better terms and, in addition, meets all the concerns of the directive.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 13, which introduces the principle of best possible advice.
Amendment No 16, which the Commission accepts, goes in the same direction as the common position and improves it.
Amendments Nos 14 and 18 put in jeopardy the key objective of high consumer protection, something that the Commission cannot accept.
Amendment No 18 in particular would leave the customer in a position of uncertainty, as he would not be provided with the written advice on the appropriate insurer's product recommended by the intermediary.
The objective of achieving a true single market with a high level of consumer protection would not be achieved.
Mr President, an error no doubt arose in translation.
Mr President, what is ridiculous is that this Chamber, which is a political organisation, calls a state by an acronym.
Mr President, before we vote on Amendment No 88, I should like to draw the attention of my fellow MEPs to a mistake that has crept into the translation of Amendment No 91.
Amendment No 91 therefore states that opposition is being expressed in respect of human trafficking and prostitution of minors, but not to prostitution itself.
This is the key difference between Amendments Nos 88 and 91.
Regarding paragraphs 33 and 34: Mr President, I wish to present to the House an oral amendment on paragraphs 33 and 34 to reflect the fact that at the beginning of the week Cyprus closed the competition policy chapter.
Paragraph 33 therefore needs to be updated to say that 28 negotiating chapters have so far been provisionally closed rather than 27.
The rapporteur says that he is?
This tax is therefore heavier in relative terms for those with more modest incomes.
This report in fact supports the Commission's position in this field and is very much in the spirit of the Euratom Treaty, an outdated treaty with the very much official objective of promoting the use of nuclear energy, which is in itself highly questionable.
It goes without saying that funds will have to continue to be committed to research on radioactive waste, given that such large quantities of this waste have been generated in such an irresponsible way.
If we are really to tackle the problem we are faced with, the first step we need to take, as a matter of urgency, is to stop producing such waste, and then to steer research towards in situ waste management as part of a strategy of abandoning nuclear power. . (DE) As long as nuclear power stations are operated in Europe, the highest priority should be given to protecting the health of EU citizens and their environment.
Mr President, although I did not vote against the report on the arrangements concerning the AIEM tax applicable in the Canary Islands, that was because I did not want simply to follow the example of Commissioner Bolkestein and our rapporteur by accepting the entire 'Spanish connection' which has been set up in such a way as to totally violate the principles of the single market and the free movement of goods.
I am in favour of adopting special measures for the peripheral regions under Article 299 of the Treaty.
Although we voted for the handful of timid support measures for wage-earners in the fisheries sector and for crew safety, we abstained on the report as a whole.
Where cod is concerned, the stock situation appears to be more serious, requiring rather more severe measures than those proposed for hake, although they could vary according to the species.
Taking into account that this target was questioned by the most recent scientific recommendations, reducing it to 145 000 tonnes, and that the Commission itself said in meetings of the Northern hake workshop that a target of 120 000 tonnes could be acceptable, we cannot vote in favour of a Proposal that includes hake and that sets the target at 165 000 tonnes.
There is also a contradiction in the Stihler report, as in her explanatory statement the rapporteur herself recognises this quantity of 165 000 tonnes as being 'too high" (Biomass Targets) and in her conclusions she says that "a relaxation in the targets for hake [?] should be allowed".
The production of agricultural alcohol currently provides an additional income for many family-run farms, which thus see it as a secondary means of support.
This is indeed about fruit and caring for cultural landscapes - it is also about the many small and medium-sized enterprises that need the distillery on the family farm for the important additional income it provides as a secondary means of support.
Unfortunately, in all these recent conflicts, without going back any further in time, these international institutions have acted as instruments of the major powers and have served the policies of those powers, which first and foremost still means maintaining their total world domination.
It is also unacceptable that attempts are being made to make more rapid progress on Community policies in the field of immigration and asylum that are even more restrictive than current legislation in some Member States.
The General Affairs Council, which met yesterday in Luxembourg, demonstrated the widespread confusion about the proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy in all the countries where this sector is of economic, social and cultural importance.
The European Council should approach the problem of illegal immigration in the wider context of a common policy on asylum and immigration.
During the Nice summit, our governments' leaders chose to make Europe slightly less democratic and less efficient.
Moreover, by going further down the road of intergovernmentalism (and consequently less transparency) the Treaty of Nice leads Europe in the opposite direction to where we need to go. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, I have naturally voted in favour of the Brok report, but I regret that the results and the recommendations of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities have not been incorporated in the report itself but have merely crept in via amendments.
We should realise that half of the people in the candidate countries are women.
I voted for the Brok report and, as representative of the Delegation to the EU-Bulgaria Joint Parliamentary Committee, I would like to point something out.
I feel that it is a political error not to accept all these candidate countries together.
And the welcome reference in the report to a single sovereign Cypriot state does nothing to change this.
At the Berlin Council in 1999, six candidate countries had in fact been expected to join the EU in 2002.
In any case, there is at least one problem that is not really a problem: the non-ratification of the Treaty of Nice by the Irish people.
It is a disastrous state of affairs for these countries and, more so, for those of their inhabitants who work in the towns and in the countryside.
We are also concerned about the burden faced by the candidate countries in transposing the 'acquis communautaire', which varies between 70 000 and 90 000 pages of text, depending upon the translation.
There is now a real possibility of ten new Member States joining in 2004 and taking part in that year's European elections.
It now also looks possible that Romania and Bulgaria could join in 2007.
The East remains poor because it exports cheap agricultural products and mining products, and has to import expensive technology.
We are mentioning this in order to get across our basic viewpoint in this debate: enlargement is essential and is a political development of enormous significance, from which we cannot shy away.
It is, however, gratifying that the report gives dates for closure of the Ignalina, Bohunice and Kozloduy power stations.
As regards Temelin, the report is disappointing when one considers that Parliament, as recently as last year, called for an international conference on phasing it out.
Firstly, the general support for the applicant states' rapprochement with NATO and the reference to NATO as an important element in the security and stability structure of Europe.
We would therefore have found it wiser to keep this discussion out of this report.
Firstly, the Brok report incorrectly states that the applicant countries continue to fulfil the political criteria set in Copenhagen in 1993.
That is incorrect.
Therefore I regard the report, which explicitly denies the problems that still exist in this area, as unacceptable.
Parliament must now take its own words seriously and look in detail at the human rights situation in the applicant countries. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The financial perspectives established in Berlin in 1999 for the years 2000-2006 anticipated the arrival of six new Member States as from 2002.
We should also like, however, to see this policy reformed and converted into a 'durable CAP' (see my explanation of vote on the Olsson report).
The request for OLAF offices to be opened in the candidate countries before the end of June seems to me to be at the very least absurd and bordering on an insult to the candidate countries.
The lion's share of our regional funds, which, to a large degree, pump money from the rich Member States via the bureaucracy in Brussels back to the same rich Member States, would, on the basis of the current criteria, be intended for the new Member States, mainly at the expense of areas in Spain, Portugal and Greece which are currently still the poorest countries.
The Commission has already agreed broadly to subsidise these regions and, in particular, the undertakings that operate there, explaining that, following enlargement, the regions at the present external borders of the EU will certainly attract less than prosperous labour from newly admitted countries.
We are also glad that a range of proposals submitted by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left have been incorporated into the report, for example the emphasis on the need to provide more funds to promote SMEs, and the call for an increase in the EU share in co-finance in order to take account of the calamitous gaps in terms of development.
I should like, however, to emphasise two points that I feel are important to this discussion: the need to maintain our efforts to simplify and speed up implementation processes in the field of structural actions, which are crucial to their sound and efficient implementation, guaranteed by appropriate assessment and monitoring systems; observance of the principle of additionality, the guarantee for a coherent structural policy, which reflects the added value of Community structural policy in national regional policies. - (FR) The Olsson report and the Commission propose gradually extending the present common agricultural policy to the new Member States in the course of the ten years following their accession, with consideration being given at the same time to a new CAP, applicable to everyone but, for financial and technical reasons, unable to be put into effect before 2006.
The aim is to secure markets for big business and develop neo-capitalist farming models which marginalise the agricultural sector and alter its social and environmental role (paragraph 24 of the report speaks for itself here).
Mr Olsson has already mentioned in his report the political and economic importance of agriculture in all CEECs and the structural changes that are required in their rural areas.
The EU should make clear that there must in the longer term be a single common agricultural policy for all Member States, with all players starting on an equal footing.
Although this voluntary agreement being considered between the various automobile manufacturers could be implemented fairly quickly and give rise to practical measures, I nonetheless think that, in the long term, a solid legal basis is the only satisfactory way of protecting pedestrians and cyclists.
The Petersen report helps to do something about this.
We must prevent them. . (PT) This report should call for testing to be imposed, in order to end the tragedy of the around 2 000 deaths and the more than 18 000 serious injuries that occur in road traffic accidents across the EU every year.
After more than twenty years of debates, the Commission considers itself to be satisfied with a voluntary agreement with the European motor vehicle industry - and is reluctant to submit a legislative proposal - which we feel is unacceptable.
The phase A reduction from four tests to two, unlike the proposal by the European Enhanced Safety Vehicle Committee, will mean a 75% decrease in lives saved, added to the fact that in only 10 years, the objectives proposed by this body will be achieved.
The report has made significant headway in terms of reaching agreement between industry and citizens on important issues such as bullbars and pedestrian-friendly car fronts.
The report is not interested in the users of services, who are in danger of seeing the complete deterioration of public services if these forms of privatisation end up being imposed.
We believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to the people they affect.
In our view, the EU and the Member States' adoption in 2001 of the guidelines for web sites was extremely important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to emphasise that I am in complete agreement with this compromise text on child labour in the football industry.
I therefore expect from FIFA - the customer of industry - and from the European Commission not only a commitment in terms of effort but also a commitment in terms of result in the run-up to the World Cup in 2006.
Because these children are the economic future of the developing countries.
In just one area of India, the Punjab, about 10 000 children aged between 6 and 12 sit stitching footballs, while about 15 000 children work in the area of Sialkot in Pakistan.
Mr President, it is not because my country has not qualified for the World Cup, but along with my fellow MEPs from other groups and from our group, I think we should seize the euphoria surrounding the World Cup in Korea and Japan to consider the perpetual losers: the children aged six, ten or twelve, who stitch together footballs in India, Pakistan and other countries.
Three reports were presented at the press conference of Global March Against Child Labour in New Delhi last month.
Other reports of a similar kind denounce the situation in Pakistan and China.
Admittedly, FIFA demonstrated its good will in 1996 by concluding an agreement with the international trade union on the code of conduct to banish child labour and poor working conditions.
The production of sports equipment is certainly not the only, and not even the most important, sector in which children work.
I should like to underline that this resolution should not be considered as a targeted attack on one specific form of child abuse, or aimed at one specific sector in industry and one product.
In this way, the World Cup 2002 forms a starting point to remind everyone - manufacturers, governments, international organisation and the public - of their own responsibilities.
Mr President, the title of this resolution on child labour, which we also support, is contradictory, because at that age children should be at school, not working.
But child labour among children as young as 10 years old, as my colleagues have said, is increasing every year.
Child labour has other serious connotations: for example, it decreases salaries in the regions in which thousands of children work, takes work away from adults, causes poverty in families and, above all, deprives children of the right to education, which they should have from birth.
The PPE-DE group, like all the other groups, condemns every form of child labour.
FIFA and the sports goods manufacturers must at last introduce a code of conduct and then monitor the way it is implemented, if this deplorable state of affairs is to be brought to an end.
We call on FIFA, national teams and the sports goods manufacturers to do everything possible to make the 2004 European Championships in Portugal the first international football tournament free of child labour.
According to World Labour Organisation sources, some 211 million children aged between 5 and 14 work instead of attending school.
The Commission has not had any contact so far with FIFA on this issue.
The Commission considers that assistance for and protection of vulnerable children should be seen in the wider context of poverty eradication and therefore in the framework of the Community framework development cooperation.
Children are an important focal group in the Community's external aid, particularly in sectoral policies such as education and health.
The Community is committed to applying the ILO core labour standards and has agreed to implement those standards in the framework of bilateral and multilateral agreements with developing countries.
A good example is Article 50 of the Cotonou Convention.
In that article the Community and the ACP countries have reaffirmed their commitment to ILO core labour standards, including the fight against the worst forms of child labour.
The promotion of children's rights was one of the priorities for funding in 2001 and will be mainstreamed in funding for the period 2002 to 2004.
As regards trade, in December 2001 the Council adopted a revised GSP scheme by which additional trade preferences are granted to countries that respect core labour standards.
In this context, the EU considers a rights-based approach as fundamental to the promotion of the interest of children, given that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most ratified international treaty in the world and provides an already agreed normative framework.
The plan of action agreed at this special session contains strong elements aimed at combating child labour.
The joint debate is closed.
This massacre occurred two years after 1 200 people were killed in the same town as a result of the fight between two rivalling military factions.
The human tragedy is currently in Kisangani, Kivu and Bunia, but the fundamental political problem has lain for 40 years in the illegitimacy of the governments and institutions of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as Mrs Maes said.
This addition covers everything that the European Union said about Sun City.
Paragraph 5 would therefore read as follows: 'Welcomes the political agreement on the consensus for transition in the DRC signed on 19 April 2002 by the Government of the DRC, the MLC of Jean Pierre Bemba, the RDC-ML, the RDC-N and other delegates of the unarmed opposition and civil society; regrets that the opposition parties (UDPS, FONUS, PALU and MNCL), and other parties and platforms representing civil society have not signed the Agreement of 19 April and supports the efforts of the special representative of the European Union to move forward the Alliance for the Protection of the Inter-Congolese dialogue, which includes the RCD-Goma and five unarmed opposition parties to this agreement?.
The Socialist Group will vote against recital E, because we do not believe that, in the current political conditions in the DRC, it can be said that the population of Kisangani, or of any other province, has democratically expressed itself.
The date of the Sun City Agreement also needs to be corrected in the text, as it took place on 19 April and not on 19 May, as incorrectly featured in the resolution.
We recall, as did the declaration made on behalf of the European Union, the obligations stemming from the UN resolutions for demilitarisation of Kisangani, as well as the commitments made by the parties under the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement.
The Commission believes that a political settlement of the crisis should be pursued by all parties and by the international community.
The Commission is in favour of an international investigation into the alleged massacre in Kisangani, but we believe that MONUC and other UN agencies present in the field can provide sufficient elements and evidence.
The joint debate is closed.
It is vital that Equatorial Guinea respect its commitments to the international community and the European Union and engage in a genuine process of democratisation including the holding of free elections and complete respect for human rights.
In order for that to happen, it is essential that the problem of Equatorial Guinea be raised as a matter of urgency within the Joint ACP-EU Parliamentary Assembly and that the Council and the Commission be very firm indeed in their relations with the government of this country.
In order to guarantee the rapid re-establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights, a consultation procedure between the government of Guinea and the European Union needs to be put in place as quickly as possible, and this in accordance with Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
This explains my political interest in supporting and defending the resolution.
The European Union should therefore review its political relations with this African republic and call on President Obiang to establish the rule of law that has been lost and to begin to open up democracy for the good of his country.
Mr President, the trial conducted against 140 citizens in Equatorial Guinea is a sham that the European Union cannot keep quiet about.
The totalitarian regime in Malabo has tried to get rid of those who could represent a democratic alternative.
It is true that a few years ago the process would have meant that the opponents would have been physically eliminated and it is also true that the fact that the country has joined the ACP Community as a signatory of the Cotonou Agreement has led the regime to act with more respect for the standards of the rule of law, holding a trial and allowing international observers to attend it.
I would first like to express our repulsion at such a corrupt and anachronistic regime and our solidarity and confidence in the democratic future of Equatorial Guinea.
For now, there are clauses in the Cotonou Agreement that we should activate in order to make it known in Malabo that practices such as the trial I mentioned are simply incompatible with its association with the European Union.
Mr President, it is important that the European Parliament makes its views known on the deteriorating human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea.
Since March this year, opponents of President Obiang's regime have been arbitrarily detained and tried under deplorable and unacceptable conditions.
Independent journalists reporting on political trials have come under extreme pressure, while several human rights organisations report that deaths have occurred from injuries sustained from torture while in detention.
Equatorial Guinea is in clear breach of every human rights convention it has signed.
This Union must take a firm stand with the authorities in Equatorial Guinea and demand that prior commitments be honoured.
We demand that the EU as a whole makes its concerns known to the authorities in Equatorial Guinea and call for an end to the current abuse of human rights.
Mr President, unfortunately, this is not the first time that we have discussed Equatorial Guinea in Parliament, to condemn the dictatorship that in practice the country is under, and also to regret the ineffectiveness of all the actions that we take.
I therefore believe that we have to make an extraordinary effort to promote the path of democracy in Equatorial Guinea and not only condemn the dictatorship, but also those Western countries who, either by action or by omission, are in practice supporting the continuance of the dictator.
Like the other parties, we support this resolution demanding that this trial be repealed and voided, that all those detained be freed and that the democratic future of the country be set in motion.
Mr President, although we cannot take away the torture to which the political opponents who were tried without any guarantees in Equatorial Guinea were subjected to, the country should void the trial, its results and the measures adopted during it, such as the suppression of the bar association, if it wants to be part of the association with the European Union.
With this legal sham, the regime in Equatorial Guinea has surpassed all the limits that can be allowed for a signatory of the Cotonou Agreement, as Miguel Angel Martínez said, which is not only an agreement for economic cooperation, but also for political dialogue.
Equatorial Guinea has already committed itself internally with the European Union and with the whole of the international community, as a signatory of the Convention against Torture, to begin the transition to democracy, in other words, to hold free elections in a context of respect for human rights.
The Commission thinks that the recent court case demonstrates the shortcomings of the regime in relation to transition to democracy and respect for the rule of law and for human rights.
Community assistance was blocked from 1993 to 1997 for non-respect of human rights and has only been partially resumed.
Obviously, this has had only limited impact, but it allows the Commission to make support conditional on respect for human rights without resorting to application of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
I believe that we must protest vigorously about this, and it is clear that normal relations with the European Union will not be possible if dialogue on the basis of the OSCE mission is not begun.
It is also a rather personal matter to us because many in this House know the people who are now being ousted out of the country, if they have not been ousted already.
Over the course of two elections, we have joined forces with the OSCE team in Minsk in a very pleasant and effective partnership.
Also, we have always said that the European Union and the OSCE should be pro-active in supporting civil society and the opposition.
Mr President, over the course of the past four years, the OSCE mission in Belarus has done impressive work under impossible circumstances.
Its former head of mission and great driving force, Mr Hans-Georg Wieck, has given a thumbnail description of this commitment: observation of the human rights situation and administration of justice in Belarus, legal assistance for the affected families, reporting of processes and interventions in cases of violations of the law, humanitarian aid to victims of state persecution on political grounds and by administrative and criminal penalties, development of the range of action and cooperation of political parties, the forming of a coalition of parties and social forces, observation of elections, also involving the local population, and finally, projects reinforcing civil society.
Needless to say, all these activities have been a thorn in the side of the authoritarian President of Belarus, Mr Alexander Lukashenko, from the very outset.
I therefore agree with Hans-Georg Wieck that nothing less than the credibility of the European institutions is in the balance here.
It is for that reason that we have to give forthright support to the movement for democracy and human rights in that country, a movement that is supported not only by us but by former human rights campaigners in Prague, Warsaw and elsewhere; we have to send a signal to the people there that we know that they are Europeans, and that they really belong to us.
Via its delegation in Vienna or during the Council working group meetings, the Commission has been very active in the discussions on the OSCE position vis-à-vis Belarus.
The Commission has made it clear, in its contacts with the Belarus authorities, that it regards the OSCE Assistance and Monitoring Group as a significant test case for the authorities' approach to the development of democracy, civil society and human rights in Belarus.
For many years Syria sponsored terrorism in both Israel and Turkey and was the main state to reject any compromise solution to the Israeli-Palestinian dispute based on land for peace.
After spending 18 years in prison for crimes of opinion, the lawyer, Riad al-Turk, was released in 1998.
The lawyer, now an elderly man in poor health - and we can imagine what it means to spend 20 years in prison in that country - has suffered a deterioration of his health in recent months, since he was arrested again.
Clearly, however, respect for human rights is an essential condition of these agreements.
We therefore expect the European Commission's negotiators to take a firm stand on the case of the elderly lawyer, Riad al-Turk, as well.
Mr President, I am dismayed by the way in which the human rights situation has developed in Malaysia, particularly since the events of 11 September.
It is also vital that the European Parliament send a mission to Malaysia in order to investigate the conditions under which the political prisoners are being detained and the violations of their basic rights.
Finally, the European Union should place this issue on the agendas of the forthcoming meetings between the European Union and the ANASE.
The repeated use of the Internal Security Act has often been politically motivated and politically selective.
The resolution highlights the fact that some 40 political activists have been arrested since 2001 under the Act.
The resolution rightly calls for either the release or charging of all political prisoners of conscience, including the six political prisoners specifically named in the resolution, who have been imprisoned for exercising the right to legitimate political organisation and dissent.
We hope that your visit to Europe's Parliament will be an informative one.
It is for that reason that we have to make use of both the next EU-ASEAN summit and the next EU-ASIA summit to push energetically for a partner as important as Malaysia to respect human rights, return to its roots, renew the peaceful coexistence of the various religions and ethnic groups, and, at the end of the day, for the disappearance of the repressive measures that have been constantly stepped up in recent years, have resulted in a growing number of political prisoners, and are incompatible with Malaysia's status as one of the European Union's key partners.
Mr President, I recently represented the Group of the Party of European Socialists at the Socialist International Asia-Pacific Committee in Manila, where we had a first-hand opportunity to learn of the increasingly repressive regime in Malaysia.
The government has used the tragic events of 11 September as an excuse for a crackdown on peaceful democratic opponents of the current regime who have no connections with either al-Qa'ida or any terrorist or fundamentalist groups.
Although the Commission does not yet have a permanent presence in Kuala Lumpur, together with the Member States present in Malaysia it follows the human rights situation in the country, including the application of the internal security act, through contacts with the Government, opposition parties, Malaysian civil society and the national human rights commission.
As my colleague David Byrne made clear in the debate on this subject last year, the Commission remains concerned about the use of the Internal Security Act (ISA) in particular for the suppression of legitimate political dissent.
The Commission continues to support EU démarches on human rights issues to the Government of Malaysia on all occasions.
On 8 May, the Commission adopted its strategy paper for Malaysia, in which it is proposed to use the appropriate EC financing instruments to support activities to strengthen governance and the role of civil society in Malaysia.
When implementing that strategy, we will seek to pursue a constructive dialogue with the Government of Malaysia on these issues.
In Asia too, there is a trend in this direction, on the part of both governments and human rights organisations.
Mr President, I think that we all remember various resolutions from Parliament against the death penalty, which led to an increase in recent years in the countries who have abolished the death penalty, or at least in those who have had a practical moratorium, in which executions have not taken place in recent years.
Today we are talking about three countries in particular: South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, in which some measures have been taken which at least give us hope.
In Japan there has been a bill, and the Japanese Diet has created a league against the death penalty.
I think that these three facts can lead us to believe that in these three countries, in the not too distant future, the death penalty could be abolished.
We should think not only about the harsh conditions under which prisoners condemned to death live, but also that there are 70 prisoners in South Korea and more than 50 prisoners in Taiwan who are still awaiting the death penalty.
Mr President, the abolition of the death penalty is a cornerstone of the moral message which the EU wishes to convey throughout the world, not only to free and democratic countries but also, and especially, to dictatorships.
Singling out free and democratic states gives a one-sided impression.
I myself in this House appealed to President Fontaine last year to write to the US federal authorities to protest against the death penalty for the right-wing terrorist Timothy McVeigh.
That said, I think that the issue of the death penalty in democratic countries is one thing, while the death penalty in non-democratic dictatorships is another.
Funding such projects has recently been reaffirmed as a priority in the Commission's communication, or policy paper of 8 May 2001 on the Union's role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries.
However, conscious that a great deal remains to be done to abolish the death penalty in the Asian region as a whole, the EU decided in 2001 to enhance its strategy for abolishing the death penalty in that part of the world on the basis of the 1998 guidelines on the death penalty.
Mr President, many football fans in Europe are following the matches in South Korea very closely.
Captain Zidane definitely had not.
It is estimated that there are currently between 650 000 and 700 000 people from the European Union who are going to return to their countries of origin, and there was foot and mouth disease in Korea very recently.
Council Directive 72/462 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and swine, fresh meat or meat products from third countries, does not apply to meat that forms part of the personal luggage of those tourists, insofar as it does not exceed 1 kg., belongs to the bovine or swine species, is fresh meat and is for personal consumption.
These shortcomings have been highlighted in the report by the Commission's Food and Veterinary Office, which points out these serious defects in the inspections of imported food and animals.
Parliament therefore asks the Commission to urge the Member States to conduct more rigorous inspections at airports, to conduct a major information campaign among all tourists who have been to that part of the world regarding the risks that exist on their return, based on the International Animal Health Code; and for there to be a signed acceptance of responsibility in order to authorise entry to the European Union if they are coming from a country that has not been clear of the disease for at least three months.
As the matches are finishing on 30 June and people are returning, the Commission should, as a matter of urgency, put forward a suitable administrative and legislative process containing the strictest possible standards to be applied to inspections at borders, similar to those that are being applied in other third countries, to ensure that foot and mouth disease is not reintroduced into the European Union.
It is irrelevant whether foot and mouth disease has broken out or is present in South Korea or in another country of the world.
So I ask the Commission whether the prophylactic resources are sufficient to avert this danger in the long term.
The big question is what the European Commission and the Member States have done since the most recent major outbreak last year in order to protect the external borders more effectively.
Clearly, we need to be alert to any potential risks that they may come in contact with the disease and return with it to the European Union.
We should not, however, focus our attention only on Korea.
The fact is that foot-and-mouth disease is widespread throughout the world.
All foot-and-mouth-affected countries represent a potential risk to Member States and therefore the problem must be addressed in a general way.
Although it would appear that the outbreaks in the Republic of Korea are at least 40 km away from the nearest football venues, the potential threat to Member States cannot be ignored.
Therefore, this issue was discussed with Member States at the meeting of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain on 8 May 2002.
The Commission has subsequently reminded all Member States that, in accordance with EU law they are not authorised to import from the Republic of Korea foot-and-mouth disease susceptible animals and their products (fresh meat, meat products, meat preparations, milk, milk products, etc.).
The Commission intends to present a proposal shortly to raise public awareness and reinforce controls on passengers at points of entry.
There is passenger traffic of millions each year between our Member States and third countries where foot-and-mouth disease is endemic.
In addition, there are air-traffic links with 90 countries that are not internationally recognised to be free of foot-and-mouth disease and infection.
I am sure that the issue can be addressed in greater detail following the report of the Committee on foot-and-mouth disease and in the light of the Commission's forthcoming proposals on foot-and-mouth disease.
I shall pass on the record of this debate to my colleague David Byrne.
When the Maoist rebels attacked the Nepalganj army camp at the end of May, over 100 of them were killed, as were many soldiers.
I know Nepal very well - it is one of the poorest countries in the world, but also one of the most fascinating.
The way forward is clear: the Government must ensure respect for human rights and internal law.
The Commission deplores the increasing number of victims of continuous clashes between Maoist and Government forces, particularly following the promulgation of the state of emergency.
The new wave of terrorist attacks is having a disastrous impact on the economy and progressively disrupting the entire development process in Nepal.
The primary objectives of the new EC Cooperation Strategy for Nepal for 2002-2006 will be the consolidation of democracy, conflict prevention and poverty eradication.
The Commission is at present considering the possibility of supporting the electoral process of 13 November 2002 with EU observers.
The other point has to do with paragraph 5.
This mentions an agreement as having been signed on 19 May, but it was rightly pointed out in the debate that it was signed on 19 April.
Mr Posselt, this correction is already on file and we shall confirm it when we reach that point.
Mr President, in paragraph 5, after 'civil society?, the following paragraph should be added: 'regrets that the opposition parties (UDP, FONUS, PALU and MNC/L), and the other parties and platforms representing civil society, have not signed the agreement of 19 April?.
The Christian Democrats therefore see nothing wrong with the Commission's proposing to appropriate special resources for improving the infrastructure and, for example, encouraging youth exchanges with adjacent regions in the candidate countries.
Finally, we question whether the need for aid for this total of 23 regions in Finland, Germany, Austria, Italy and Greece really is greater than the corresponding need for aid for the border regions between the candidate countries and their eastern neighbours.
