Stabilisation of Afghanistan: challenges for the EU and the international community (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by André Brie, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Stabilisation of Afghanistan: challenges for the EU and the international community .
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Jouyet, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Kabul saw the bloodiest attack since 2001 with more than 40 Afghans and Indians killed and 140 injured.
Those who follow the European media and those who, for example, have read today's edition of Daily Outlook Afghanistan will know that violence in Afghanistan has now become much more widespread and commonplace.
A similar incident also occurred in the neighbouring province of Urusgan.
This is not only a matter of general principle but also a specific requirement as far as Malalai Dschoja, Pervez Kambasch and Latif Petram are concerned.
During the 2004 and 2005 elections the Afghan people opted very clearly and very determinedly for democracy and stability, and we must help them to establish the best possible conditions for the preparations for the forthcoming presidential election in 2009 and general election in 2010.
That goal formed the basis of the Council conclusions of 26 May, which were largely inspired by the worked carried out at the International Conference in support of Afghanistan held in Paris on 12 June.
I should point out that a few months earlier, at the NATO Summit held in Bucharest from 2 to 4 April, the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, together with President Karzai and the UN Secretary-General, attended the meeting of Heads of State and Government on Afghanistan.
Finally, I wanted to point out that by deciding at the last General Affairs and External Relations Council on 26 May that its goal was to double the number of personnel involved in its Afghanistan police mission, the European Union sent a clear message to both its Afghan partners and the international community regarding its enhanced commitment to Afghanistan.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members of this Parliament, Mr Brie, I should perhaps first like to say a few words in German and to thank you for this very important and first-rate report, and for the excellent way in which you cooperated with my staff both in Kabul and in Brussels.
In the same spirit, at the important conference in Paris we said clearly that we want to overcome the threat of terrorism; but, at the same time, we also have a challenge in our public opinions everywhere, because they do not always appreciate the challenges, and do not always embrace all the efforts that it takes to combat this threat.
We have particularly worked on the following: firstly, providing better security in Afghanistan by financing police salaries, closely linking this to support for Afghanistan's police and its reform; secondly, providing alternative livelihoods to the opium poppy and thus helping to eradicate drugs; thirdly, improving the lives of Afghans - we have focused here particularly on healthcare, where we already have been part of the undeniable success of recent years, and I would also say that we have worked on the infrastructure and regional integration with transit links, such as the important road from Jalalabad to Kabul.
In this context, your commitment here in Parliament - and I thank the rapporteur once again - and your cooperation with the Afghan Parliament, the Wolesi Jirga, are invaluable.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I knew I had two minutes but shall not dwell on that.
What we demand in this report is, firstly, a stronger commitment in terms of military presence, because without that we shall get nowhere; secondly, a stepping-up of the commitment to improve democratic structures in the new Republic of Afghanistan, which has fallen into a situation of total lawlessness over the past 30 or more years and, worst of all, lies at the heart of international terrorism.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PT) I congratulate the rapporteur, André Brie, on his careful analysis of the serious problems that we are facing in Afghanistan and, in particular, on his efforts to find a wording that would allow all the political groups to vote in favour of the compromise amendments.
As a result, the reference to the need for the international community to reassess its civil and military strategy fell by the wayside, as did the passage underlining the growing popular discontent at the corruption spreading through government institutions.
There is still a lot of work to do in this area in Afghanistan.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a paradoxical situation.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely grateful to André Brie for the work he has done and fully support his decision to withdraw his signature.
Of course, the problems are not only military and strategic, but a total victory over the Taliban remains, of course, the conditio sine qua non for the construction of a viable state with an independent judiciary and critical media.
I hope that this attack will not deter India, an important ally in the reconstruction of Afghanistan, from continuing its assistance.
There is a greater tragedy in Afghanistan than the destruction of the buildings, and this is the destruction of human life and individuals over the last 35 years.
I welcome the fact that the report reflects a consensus, which also exists on the ground in Afghanistan, that a political solution is only possible if we sustain the military pressure on the Taliban and the insurgency.
We need today to send a strong signal of support to our people in Afghanistan, to our services and to the Council to continue their work. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in order to successfully overcome the security, political, economic and social problems from which Afghanistan suffers, more is needed than just a military solution.
The military pressure on the insurgents must be matched by an intensive political process, and by a dialogue with all segments of the population that recognise the Constitution and are willing to lay down their weapons.
The West's serious military forces did what was needed to be done to confront terrorism.
More than 48 coalition troops were killed, which is more than lost their lives over the same period in Iraq.
Since the beginning of the year violence in Afghanistan has cost the lives of more than 2 200 people.
The international community must not tolerate and give in to terrorist organisations financed through the drugs trade.
Mr President, paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution states that the European Parliament 'supports the efforts of NATO forces to improve security in the country and tackle local and international terrorism, and considers the presence of these forces to be essential in order to ensure the country's future'.
Such an Amendment 9 would be a fair anti-Afghan and anti-NATO game. (PL) Madam President, today one of the most important challenges facing the Union is the creation of an effective mechanism for project coordination and information exchange among participants in Afghanistan.
In conclusion, it is important for the Council and the Commission to have the European Parliament's full support in this matter, which is critical for the international community and - as several of you also highlighted - for the future of Europe.
I believe that we all need to take a very realistic and discriminating attitude towards Afghanistan.
The presence of NATO forces is also vital to combat terrorism.
The large-scale participation of the population in elections should have a positive effect on the country's future, as this shows a desire to create a democratic state.
