Dangerous toys manufactured in China (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on dangerous toys manufactured in China.
Toys are not like any other product.
They are designed for the most vulnerable consumer group of all and it is therefore perfectly clear that we must have the highest standards for toys where children's safety is concerned.
Toys with lead paint have, of course, been banned in Europe for a long time, unlike in the United States of America.
Toys with magnetic parts or other dangerous parts which could become loose have also been banned, of course, for a long time in Europe.
What we have here, therefore, is not a problem of applicable law (although I will be coming to applicable law, an area in which something has to be changed, later), but it is a problem of the implementation and observance of the applicable law.
The best legislator in the world cannot guarantee that no defects will occur in production.
The best legislator in the world cannot guarantee that supply chains now organised on a global basis will not encounter a problem at any point.
We have to ensure that our legislation is kept up-to-date and possible risks are identified in good time and incorporated into the legislation.
It is clear that the toy market has changed dramatically in the last 20 years and this new directive will therefore pick up on a whole range of recently recognised risks and hazards and will ensure, with very strict rules - on the use of chemical substances in toys, for instance - that dangers are avoided.
At the beginning of this year, we had already put before you an entire package of measures for strengthening market surveillance for improving protection of the CE marking.
The CE marking means that the manufacturer (whether a European manufacturer or a manufacturer outside Europe wanting to sell in Europe) provides an absolute guarantee that its product is fully compliant with the rules in force in Europe.
If we do not want to take Game Boys away from children - I do not believe that anyone intends to do this - the only possibility would then be to make certification by a third body mandatory at this point.
I will start this brief exposé with a few words about law and its enforcement, because it is crucial.
We already have the legal framework to deal with dangerous products made in China or anywhere else.
The Member States' market surveillance authorities and customs controls have a duty to ensure that dangerous products are not placed on the market, or are withdrawn or recalled.
The Member States must have in place effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements, and it is written in Article 7 of the General Product Safety Directive that it is really the responsibility of the Member States.
Of course, enforcement by public authorities is only complementary to businesses respecting their legal and ethical obligations, as Commissioner Verheugen stated just minutes ago.
I would like to talk for a while on relations with China and the United States.
During my recent visit to China, my main message was that Europe does not and will not compromise on consumer safety.
In October, I expect the report from the Chinese authorities, and I am really doing everything possible to assure them that I will not hesitate to take measures if they fail to deliver.
As you know, on 16 September, the working group established by the US President issued a report with quite similar measures to those Europe has already taken on board to secure the safety of goods.
Adequate safety guarantees will not work as a bargaining chip in relations with one or another economic block; they are a sine qua non for access to either.
We have already had extensive talks with all the toy makers, including Mattel, involving the sharing of practices.
Although Commissioner Verheugen was really quite exhaustive in his exposé, let me say that as regards revision of the so-called New Approach Package, taking special care of the health and safety of European citizens requires us to preserve the specific and successful system established by the General Product Safety Directive.
If you compare how we have been through all the unpleasant events which happen on the market regarding food safety, we can really enhance our institutional comparison and do our best on product safety because in this globalised world we cannot just be an island.
We need to exercise our control and to assure European citizens that the attention from Community authorities is the same everywhere and complements the efforts of the Member States.
I think Mattel's problem has really focused attention on the important work that we do in this House, particularly my fellow members of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on what is traditionally seen as rather a dry subject, one that concerns product regulation, market surveillance and conformity assessment.
Secondly, I agree with the assessment of both Commissioners that the manufacturers and producers have to bear the brunt of the responsibility for managing a supply chain where they do quality checks and they ensure that they are producing consistently high standards of product.
These recall campaigns (it is not just Mattel, there have also been others in recent months) have shown that there is a very great need for action in the European Union to guarantee that product safety is at the highest possible level.
Our children are our future; therefore we have to pay particular attention to their safety.
Hence we are already very annoyed that it is taking the European Commission so long to revise the Toys Directive.
I am also very anxious about which proposals will be forthcoming because this has always been very unclear to date.
There is one further point that is quite important, namely the implementation of this law.
We need to work on this and hence we are demanding that there should also be additional safety labelling, particularly for toys, so that safety can also be guaranteed.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Madam President, I am pleased that there are in fact two commissioners here.
This problem is of course twofold, which is now also evidenced by the fact that it is less serious when it relates to China, and by the fact that Mattel too has made an error.
Fortunately, this is what we did with our resolution.
I fully agree with what Commissioner Verheugen says about the fact that 100% safety and security can never be achieved; however - following on now from Mrs Gebhardt - we must nevertheless strive to achieve 100% safety.
I believe that a coordinated European approach in cooperation with the Member States is essential in order to achieve this and I hope that the Commission will make efforts to establish this.
We have the CE marking and, in the resolution, we are also calling for a toy safety marking, at the very least as a replacement for all existing national markings.
Subsequently, I hope that we can introduce these markings on a voluntary basis, as the market will enforce it.
Toys should not become toxic traps for children.
We have been sending reminders on the revision of the directive since 2001 and they have repeatedly been shelved.
We should no longer therefore be leading the consumer to believe that we have got the problem under control.
We need better protection.
It is downright absurd that carcinogenic substances are allowed to get into the hands of children.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Madam President, in the debate on the recall of the toys in question it has often been said that responsibility for the fact that dangerous toys are on the market rests with the country of manufacture, in this case China.
It is of course especially tragic when it is children who are hurt by dangerous products.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the European Union and China are major mutual trading partners.
This means that China may be called to account for the quality of products supplied.
The Union should never allow its economic interests in China to take precedence over the interests of the European consumer.
In this debate, I want to look not only at the importers, but most certainly also at the Chinese manufacturers.
I call upon the Council and the Commission to convey this message to our Chinese trading partners in a clear and vigorous manner, and Commissioner Kuneva's words in particular give me full confidence that this will in fact be done; I wish her much perseverance in this difficult task.
China has on many occasions assured us that the vast majority of its exports conform to European standards, but consumers have little faith in Chinese products.
The 2006 Commission report on dangerous products highlights an increase in dangerous infringements, by toys, hairdryers and lighters.
I believe that we ought to strengthen customs barriers because the EU should protect not only consumers, not only its industry, it should not only support free competition by means of equal market access opportunities, but it should also take action on social and environmental grounds as regards the highly speculative output of Chinese industry.
We need controls not only on the final quality of the product, but also a clear mark of origin and checks, before the distribution of Chinese products is permitted within the internal market, on the safety standards and conditions under which the products are made in their places of origin; otherwise, the institutions will remain complicit in environmental disasters, social exploitation and unfair competition by Chinese industry.
Yet despite this, European citizens and European consumers can expect us to continue to deliver maximum effort in order to put a check on this.
In the case constituting the immediate cause for this debate, the products in question are toys from China.
We must ensure that product safety is guaranteed on a general level.
We always incorporate a high degree of protection for the consumer as an objective in these proposals and it now appears that this is actually the case.
We can see this because all the data show that most of the problems we have with dangerous toys from China do not necessarily come from producers of the major brands, but from those who are involved in unsafe supply chains.
Secondly, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Kuneva, who has lived up to our expectations by calling for effective use of the RAPEX system, which of course could still be refined further, and by sending a firm message to the Chinese authorities.
In reality, the Mattel affair is almost the story of a predictable failure: that of surveillance in the European Union of CE marked products, in this case toys, but they are not the only products affected.
In 2004, during the debate on the directive on the eco-design of products, I and others here this morning - I see Karin Scheele, Peter Liese, Claude Turmes - criticised the presence on the European market of other dangerous products carrying the CE label.
The fact that two Commissioners have taken the floor clearly shows that finally even the Commission understands that we have to act here.
This directive is not a response to these new challenges.
Mr Verheugen, you have rightly addressed the fact that we have to make clear to consumers that quality is also important and that prices and quality have to reflect this.
But then I also ask myself, of course, why consumers no longer have opportunities within their grasp, under a European law on collective action for example, for insisting that something should also be changed here in relation to costs?
I think it is wrong when it is suggested to consumers that CE marking is a clear signal that the product is safe.
CE marking is primarily a statement that this label complies with European directives.
We have a flaw here, which needs to be removed from the new Toy Safety Directive as a matter of urgency. (EL) Mr President, 65% of toys imported into the European Union are made in China.
In August one particular US toy company recalled approximately 18 million China-made toys from around the world.
The problem is the high levels of lead in the paints used in these toys.
This raises the serious question of what sort of future we want for our children.
Nearly all European manufacturers have at least part of their products produced in China or other low-cost countries where cheaper products are used in order to make more profit, despite higher raw material prices and salaries.
We have a dangerous problem of mentality when responsibility is shifted onto producers with a few words, and manufacturers would rather pay fines than initiate recall campaigns.
I believe, therefore, that it is the responsibility of your department to ensure that the products that come into the European Union are at least as safe as the products that we produce within the European Union.
We have things like foot-and-mouth and blue tongue coming into the European Union because we live in a global market, and yet we are not enforcing the legislation at the port of import sufficiently to ensure the safety of the products.
We have to accept the fact that products are going to come in from the rest of the world, but they must be of the same standard.
Amongst other things, we must ensure that toys do not contain carcinogens.
This responsibility cannot be left to parents.
We must modify and strengthen the CE labelling system.
Consumers today believe that the CE mark means that a product is safe, but if that is to be the case we must have a well developed system of market surveillance and a uniform testing system.
The EU is implementing the New Approach Directives in order to protect consumers.
Only last August, the US toy manufacturer Mattel recalled almost 19 million toys manufactured in China.
Mattel toys are sold in the EU too.
The same safety requirements should be applicable not only to EU manufacturers, but also to exporters in non-EU countries intending to sell their products in the EU internal market.
I would encourage the Commission to review the Toy Safety Directive as soon as possible, to introduce clear toy safety criteria and CE marking control and to protect our children from dangerous toys brought onto the EU market.
However, the law leaves industry to set the standard for how safety is to be achieved, and that is where protection for our children stops.
The standard says that the 1985 toxicity data are sufficient.
The standard assumes that no child swallows more than 8 milligrams from a toy.
This is not only a safety issue but also a health issue affecting a specific consumer group, namely our children.
We know that many products made in China are dangerous, but it does not just concern toys, it also concerns textiles and now vehicles.
We as the European Parliament should not neglect sending a clear message to the Member States that we cannot demand increasingly strict European laws and then not take enough money at home to guarantee their implementation.
This is where the Toy Safety Directive, which has been in existence for a long time, needs to be revised.
Not only does this discussion about toys provide evidence that CE labelling is misleading, but also the many discussions at home with our citizens do so too.
In Europe and the European Union we have to become better at conformity, but it makes no sense to develop specific labelling as a reward for the fact that we have been complying with the existing laws for a long time.
I would, however, also like to inquire about our Chinese colleagues' activities in China.
Should the Commissioner have any additional suggestions for items for the agenda - incidentally, we have already received a memorandum from the Commission in this regard - we would of course welcome those suggestions, as it is of course clear that cooperation between China and Europe is of particularly great importance.
I would like to point out that the Commissioner has already made efforts to that effect during the summer and that a further follow-up is expected in October.
Nevertheless, it cannot reach a situation whereby we - that is the authorities, the government - assume responsibility for products.
If we are to control each product, manufacturers should be able to say 'let them go ahead and do it; we can see what we are introducing onto the market'.
Manufacturers must ensure that their products are safe by means of research and checks.
Firstly, market surveillance - and you, Commissioner Verheugen, have indeed addressed the fact that an iron was wrongly given two different safety labels on Europe's internal market.
This is bad enough, but the worst thing is that a Member State found this iron and did not inform the other Member States about it until a year later.
Secondly, importer liability has already been addressed.
However, I believe that a crucial problem - and this is my third point - lies in the fact that we have different approaches at European level.
Hence my appeal to our Members: let us therefore think about taking CE marking as a basis for all goods coming onto the internal market and additional, voluntary certification for consumer goods. (FR) Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the recall by the US toy manufacturer Mattel of several million toys made in China is significant for three reasons.
I have to say even as a Liberal that there is justifiable doubt that parents always know best what is good for their children when buying toys.
Quality toys produced in Europe such as Lego, Playmobil, Märklin, Brio wooden trains or Wader plastic toys are also correspondingly expensive.
I know Commissioner Kuneva's efforts on this issue and can only encourage her in them.
If the safety of the products placed on the market is a priority for all of us, the safety of children's toys is twice as important because children are the most vulnerable group of consumers.
We would all like to see only safe children's toys on the market and therefore we often rely on the CE marking.
Most manufacturers outside the European Union have understood that European importers will no longer run the risk of offering on the market products that do not conform to this marking.
At the same time, our citizens firmly believe that it is the guarantee of quality and, especially, a guarantee of security.
However, I do not think that we should add to the alarm as, in general, the toys sold in Europe are surely the safest in the world.
However, reality shows us that we need to improve European safety standards, especially for those products that consumers have direct contact with, such as toys or textile products.
The situation that arose should lead to greater market surveillance, inspection and the banning or withdrawal of dangerous products.
We need to demand that China improves safety, but it is essential to cooperate with them to achieve these objectives.
Secondly, we must negotiate with third countries in order to ensure that they, too, introduce safety standards for the products they export to our Union.
The Commission's analysis that we are soon to be presented with will expose the flaws in product safety control in Member States.
In that way, without incurring high costs, manufacturers will improve their internal quality control and other dangerous products that are on the market will be quickly withdrawn, not just toys.
Secondly, this is not a short-term problem.
What is happening with toys is also happening with textiles and many other products.
Thank you. (SK) Toys are very sensitive goods that affect human health from an early age.
The issue of small magnets, which, I should mention, pose a new safety risk that should also be dealt with immediately in a directive on toy safety, must be brought before the European Parliament without further delay.
Within the Rapex system it is necessary to explain its objective so that it is understood by all Member States alike.
I should mention that the consumer public is beginning to perceive this marking as a technical passport for all products entering the single European market.
In order to prevent any future placing on the market of potentially dangerous products, it is important for the national consumer protection authorities to improve their measures of monitoring and investigating compliance with the EU legislation.
A short-term solution to this problem is to withdraw post factum all articles that give cause for concern.
But this is a solution that is effective in the short term, and one with many tragic consequences, such as the suicide of the boss of one of the companies that produces the toys.
A much better and more promising solution is to establish a safe limit for the amount of lead in the manufacture of toys, and of other articles too.
We have to introduce genuinely binding limits that hold for all EU countries.
Incidentally I would like to point out that the EU should apply thorough monitoring of all products imported from China.
The subject of toys is just one element in a broader problem area.
For that reason, we must invest in strong contacts and fair trade relations that benefit China and also our citizens in Europe.
We therefore cannot and must not tolerate non compliance of our trading partners' products with the safety standards that we have laid down in our legislation.
But let us make it clear: the Mattel problem would almost certainly be with us with or without a strengthened Toy Safety Directive.
This means: revising EU legislations on toys before Christmas, insisting on the need for maximum harmonisation; ensuring that manufacturers comply with safety standards, as well as social and environmental standards - why not introduce a new European label to reinforce CE marking?; reviewing the effectiveness of controls and penalising manufacturers if necessary; clarifying the responsibilities of producers and importers; stepping up market surveillance through real customs cooperation between Member States.
They do not care about the environment any more than about the health of their employees and customers, or that these may be children.
We have to recognise the weakness of our control systems and question the meaning of CE marking on products marketed in Europe.
Commissioner, we are using this review to give our children something more than a Chinese product that reflects American popular culture.
That requires cooperation with the Chinese authorities.
I support what my fellow members have said with regard to imposing a rigorous revision of the legislation relating to the CE marking, with liability regulations for importers and facilities for placing sanctions on those that infringe upon the regulations.
There is also a problem, however, with Western multinationals manufacturing products in China or elsewhere, which have major responsibilities for safety and control, including for toys; there is also the problem that products declared to be made in Europe should really be made in Europe.
We cannot ask China to respect employment rights and environmental standards, as it must do, while concealing the fact that our multinationals are also responsible for violations of this kind.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it was really a very interesting and very deep discussion and I am grateful to all of you.
I believe that, whatever kind of signals we could give, like the resolution you produced, or proposals by the Commission, or trying to intervene with benchmarks from the Commission to compare how the different Member States work on the ground, we can succeed only if there is a common vision for the future, a vision which is based on open societies and free market, and in the first place, when we are talking about consumers, that we will not comprise on consumer safety.
RAPEX works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, which means that there is no delay in notification through RAPEX.
It is very important to reiterate that by recalling goods, economic operators are complying with an obligation under European legislation.
I would like to tell you that all the toys have been destroyed, and this has been confirmed by Mattel.
I think that all of us should assume our obligations, and this is the only way the Community can proceed.
Regardless of whether a product is produced in China or Europe, if it is brought onto the European market, the same regulations apply 100%, since there is no distinction at all.
I guarantee once again: this new Toy Safety Directive will be in place by the end of the year.
The policy instruction to officials, on which they are working, is: the strictest possible regulations in relation to toy safety, the 'strictest possible'.
This, for instance, expressly includes - because several people have said so here - the fact that I gave instructions, a long time ago and not just now, that carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic chemical substances should not be used in toys.
There are still more than 900 of them.
What we can do - and this we are doing - is to strengthen and improve cooperation, but we cannot assume responsibility.
I am very happy about these requests because they pinpoint precisely what the Commission put to you at the beginning of this year on the reform of the internal market.
The Member States should be forced to make appropriate resources available - this is included in our proposal.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 26 September 2007.
Dangerous toys made in China are a problem for us all.
The EU is trying to face up to these challenges and has therefore proposed a regulation on marketing of goods.
In my opinion, the problem of product marketing is linked to several further questions, and these need to be emphasised: information for the consumer on goods bought by him/her; good information is the best consumer protection, market surveillance by Member States, enhanced cooperation between States, a new approach to the CE mark which symbolises a safe product that meets EU requirements.
Much work still lies ahead, but EU legislation is the right way forward and gives us hope that the future will be free of hazards from everyday items and that neither we nor our children will be threatened by them.
in writing. - Consumer safety raises serious concerns among our citizens when threats can be identified endangering the most vulnerable ones, namely: our children.
Chinese authorities must take appropriate action to improve their standards of production, but equally important is the duty of toy companies, who order products from the Far East in order to benefit from lower costs, to ensure that safety standards are met.
