Draft general budget for 2007 (Section III) - Draft general budget for 2007 (Sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII) The next item is the joint debate on the budgetary procedure 2007.
rapporteur. - Mr President, thank you for introducing us to this first budgetary debate for 2007.
In setting out the guidelines for the 2007 budget - one that is different from others in the sense that it has been the first budget in the new financial perspective - much of the first part of the year was spent in negotiating the result of the financial perspectives.
Indeed it is a rare budget when we find that we do not yet have some of the programmes in place, because the multiannual programmes are in the process now of being completed as, let us hope, the Financial Regulation will be in place for the beginning of next year to be the basis for our operation.
In terms of general considerations, there are three that I should like to set out, which have shaped our strategic thinking in the Budgets Committee in presenting this budget to Parliament.
Firstly, as we noted in the annual policy strategy (APS) discussions in May, which form the basis for our preparation for this budget, the speed of globalisation outside Europe is shaping our policies.
Secondly, we are acutely aware that the results of the financial perspective discussions have left us with fewer resources than we might otherwise have hoped, and therefore lead to the need for prioritisation in the way in which we shape our policies.
On the question of payments, we have taken a horizontal approach that reflects the approach taken by Reimer Böge, as our rapporteur on the financial perspectives - whose report Parliament adopted - in outlining a number of priority areas; and this is what we have reflected in taking payments on first reading to 1.04%, yet again well beneath the ceiling allowed for 2007 of 1.06%.
We are putting these in as preparatory actions to be approved under the 2007 budget.
There are some in the Council who think that we are not being particularly generous in leaving it at a cut of 50%.
There were those who wanted 100%, but we reached 50% as a good compromise because there are a range of people, particularly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs but also elsewhere in this Parliament, who would like to see the commitment entered into by the Council fulfilled for the way in which we handle the common foreign and security policy between Parliament and Council.
The intent is to be able to release these sums by the end of the year on second reading, so long as we can have a satisfactory explanation from the Commission on 15 November, when we will have a joint Committee on Budgets-Committee on Budgetary Control meeting to examine these lines and to see whether they are now operating positively.
Secondly, as regards work on the agency - which Mrs Haug has so ably coordinated for us - we are putting sums of money of the increases in reserves so that we can hear views from the agencies as to what they will be doing with their money and their work programmes in order to get value for money once again.
We believe that we need a screening exercise of the Commission by 30 April 2007 so that we can understand what the mid-term demands of the Commission are before taking radical action to cut back.
The Committee on Budgets decided to restore more than EUR 10 million out of the reductions of around EUR 29 million made by the Council to the other sections, excluding Parliament and the Council.
The 2007 budget was based on the institutions' essential priorities, while ensuring their unhindered operational and functional efficiency.
Globally, the increase for institutions amounts to EUR 31 million compared to the EUR 48 million requested.
Over the years, Mr President, exaggerated margins have become common features of some institutions' estimates.
With regard to Parliament, the Committee on Budgets agreed that the final amount of the 2007 budget should be of EUR 0.1397 billion, that is to say a margin of EUR 25 million below the maximum of 20%.
The administration should address this shortcoming and corrrect it by no later than the end of this year.
Mr President, due to lack of time I am unable to to talk in detail about all the priorities addressed in the budget and in my report for 2007.
These priorities relate to the EUR 48 million allocated for expenses connected with enlargment involving Bulgaria and Romania; the measures taken for the simplification and upgrading of legislation; the scrutiny of the cost-efficiency of translation services, especially with regard to the length of texts; the authorisation of EUR 9.5 million in supplemetary funds for the improvement of the visitors' programme; the decision to keep EUR 6.7 million in the reserve for Web TV, a final decision about which will be taken after a presentation of the prototype in CoBu; and the need for greater control of the administration of multinlingualism, for which we put EUR 3 million in reserve.
I appreciate the frank atmosphere of debate that has reigned all year long between Members of the Council and Parliament.
The budgetary authorities must take concrete action to achieve their objectives in this 2007 budget.
In the interinstitutional agreement concluded five months ago, Parliament approved an average sum of EUR 250 million per annum.
That being the case, I believe that the EUR 159 million advocated by the Commission and the Council is a reasonable figure.
I would therefore ask how Parliament's suggestion of EUR 73 million can be justified.
As we all know well, the 2007 budget is the first to be covered by the new interinstitutional agreement.
It is very important that all of its old familiar aspects, such as ceilings and adequate margins, are respected right from the start.
The new agreement also has new provisions on, for example, pilot projects and preparatory operations.
We can therefore hold negotiations with Parliament on the Financial Regulation on 21 November.
However, I should like to mention three sensitive points, which we would like to solve, together with Parliament, before second reading.
However, the Commission and its secretariat are ready to come in the middle of November for the hearings, to which Parliament has invited us, to explain as much as we can, to allow Parliament to lift as much as it will be able to before the second reading.
We understand that it concerns point 47 in our new interinstitutional agreement.
The third element is a reserve of EUR 50 million on Commission staff salaries in heading 5.
We would like to thank Parliament for restoring the cuts which have been performed by the Council, but reserves are still of concern to us because conditionalities are wide and there are a lot of them.
But as I said in the beginning, we will strive to make as much information as possible available before 15 November and before the final conciliation with both arms of the budgetary authority, so as to be able to lift as much as we can.
We hope that by 21 November we will be able to come to an agreement that will be good for all three institutions and acceptable.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (HU) The foreign affairs chapter was perhaps the greatest loser in the seven-year budget, which immediately calls into question whether the European Union will be capable of fulfilling its role as a global player.
The Committee on Budgets did not agree with all of our proposals, and therefore we are submitting these proposals once again on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
It refers to our own House's Budget and to the possibility of maintaining links with other legislatures, such as the Pan-African Parliament or the Parliament of Afghanistan, which would enable this House to have a real and positive influence on the democratisation process around the world, and so I urge you, on Thursday, to vote to adopt this amendment too.
One such project is the Globalisation Adjustment Fund of EUR 500 million.
The Committee on Budgets took on board all the Committee on the Environment's amendments, and for that I am very grateful to my fellow-Members who sit on it.
We cannot, however, regard the overall situation as satisfactory, since the financial year 2007 will present us with as yet unresolved problems with LIFE+ and the action programme on health.
We in this House are still waiting for the start of negotiations with the Council pursuant to Article 47 of the Interinstitutional Agreement - negotiations, that is, on where the money for the three new agencies is to come from.
Secondly, I commend this report for the concern it expresses for the Galileo Programme, which has been under-funded in the 2007 draft general budget.
I do not understand why we are prepared to cut funding in this area.
My own region, the West Midlands, is a case in point.
EU funds have acted as a catalyst in re-energising the potential and development of local communities.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - Mr President: one minute, two points.
Secondly, I should like to mention Parliament's budget for communicating with our citizens.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, in the financial perspective, the amount for the trans-European networks - the 30 top-priority transport projects - has been cut back to a third of the amount that the Commission originally found necessary.
We have therefore chosen to put the whole of the amount for 2007 - almost EUR 800 million - into reserves until everything has been clarified.
We cannot, of course, make use of the first year's budget without having a clear idea of what is to happen over the next few years.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Elles, ladies and gentlemen, with a few exceptions, all the amendments by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have been accepted by the Committee on Budgets.
The most significant of these cuts is the EUR 10 million cut in the reserve in international agreements, which is being taken away - is disappearing - both for commitments and for payments.
The Committee on Fisheries believes that this could even create problems with regard to the Union's legal obligations in this field, and we are therefore calling for the initial sums to be restored.
The Council's other reductions relate to the payments of the European Fisheries Fund: EUR 23 million for the convergence regions and EUR 7 million for those that are not included in this category.
The Committee on Fisheries believes that these cuts would make it impossible to pay the advance of 7%, as stipulated in the Fund's own Regulation.
On the other hand, though - and this is where we have different ends in mind - Europe needs money if we are to be able to enthuse people and move the European project forward, which is what we want to do, and that will not be possible unless proper funding is made available.
This morning, it was lamented - as it will be this evening too - that we do not spend enough money in this field, in an area that really does have an impact on people, on Europe's citizens, and builds a link between them and Europe.
Mr President, Mrs Wideroos, Mrs Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I want first of all to say a well-deserved thank you to the general rapporteur, our fellow Member and friend Mr Elles, as well as to the Committee on Budgets as a whole, for the way in which it has taken account of the priorities of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Among these priorities, there are two that obviously deserved a very special effort when it came to the budget.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. - (ES) Mr President, it is often said that knowledge does not take up any space, but in this case I believe that the debate and the reflection on the future of Europe should have a space in the budget.
When we met with the general rapporteur in July, I told him, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this may appear to be the least important thing in this debate, but that in reality that was not the case.
The principle of gender mainstreaming is enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty, which requires a gender equality perspective not only to be applied to measures designed specifically to promote equal opportunities, but also to be incorporated into all policies at all levels of the budgetary process by means of gender budgeting.
When the Finnish Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Tuula Haatainen, addressed our committee in early October, she highlighted the mainstreaming of equality policies in budgetary planning and evoked the Finnish example of seeking to ensure that all items, not only in the national, but also in the EU budget, take gender equality policies into account.
draftsman for the opinion of the Committee on Petitions. - (HU) I wish to speak on behalf of the Committee on Petitions about the budget for the European Ombudsman.
We often speak of bringing Europe closer to its citizens, of helping the citizens to gain a better understanding of what the European Union really is.
It is therefore very important for the Ombudsman to have sufficient budgetary resources available to be able to perform his duties successfully and effectively.
I would like to remind everyone that we spoke of this office as a model (for other institutions, with clearly defined competencies) and a well-administered budget.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FI) Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Grech, the rapporteur for Parliament's budget.
The speech was broadcast via Internet TV to everyone in Europe, but in the whole of Europe there were just 14 interested viewers, half of whom were the Minister's own advisers.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Wideroos, Mrs Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank our two rapporteurs, Mr Elles and Mr Grech, who, through the work they have done and the tenacity they have shown, have been able to give direction to our work on this first reading of the budget.
This budget, the first of the 2007-2013 programme, is a very modest one, representing only 1.04% of GDP.
Not only is it very modest, but it is probably not up to the challenges facing the European Union: the energy crisis, the crisis of confidence, world conflicts and the increase in poverty and job insecurity, all coming at a time when Europeans are expressing ever more expectations of the European Union.
Quality, and not just quantity, characterises the approach to this 2007 budget, therefore.
We want to be ambitious, as people expect us to be, but we must also be realistic, as we do not know whether we shall be able to implement these policies.
In reality, I am mostly concerned about the implementation of this budget.
Finally, and in conclusion, I wanted to tell you, Mr President, that the Council must remember that it cannot impose its point of view, because we need together to comply with the priorities of the European political project and because, if we reduce the budget by too much, we shall no longer be able to develop any of these policies of which Europeans expect so much.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the budget we are presenting today is a responsible and sensible budget.
We have not accepted the Council's indiscriminate cuts to administrative expenditure but we have, on the other hand, put EUR 50 million from the Commission's administrative budget into the reserves and demanded a clearer explanation of trends in certain areas of expenditure.
I think that, especially in regard to our close neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe, we in the EU have an obligation to promote stronger economic development and to encourage a view of democratic development as something hopeful and positive.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House's budget debates may well not be renowned for being sexy, but they are very important, for we, in the 2007 budget as in all the others, are setting out the priorities for our work over the coming year.
We take the same view of the 2007 budget, and ask ourselves whether it will enable us to do those things that have to be done.
For example, we do not agree with our agricultural policy or with the excessive subsidies paid out for agricultural exports.
This is another policy that the European Union should change.
After the Council's reading, the level of payment appropriations was 1% of the Member States' combined GNP.
This year, we are faced with a rather curious situation.
Bearing in mind that the 2007 budget is the first budget within the new financial framework, it is to be hoped that it will augur well for subsequent years.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, I must begin by thanking the rapporteurs.
It is a bad budget because it fails to deal with, or even to tackle, any of the European Union's major problems.
If the amendments tabled by the Independence and Democracy Group had been adopted, the 2007 budget could have served to introduce a new approach to funding for the agricultural sector.
The 2007 budget increases expenditure on administration, and provides for the creation of new offices and agencies.
That will be one of the main criteria against which the year 2007 will be assessed.
We also share a common desire for a new financial regulation, hence our pressure on the Finnish Presidency to ensure that we can work on the basis of the new financial regulation in 2007.
Mr Elles, our rapporteur, has proposed, and obtained Parliament's support for, a very consistent position.
We believe that the European Union's new functions require motivation, a stable administrative staff and recruitment from the new Member States.
The first relates to what was said by Mrs Guy-Quint.
The first budget of the new financial framework clearly demonstrates that the funds are overstretched.
The 2007 budget is the first to be drafted within the framework of the new financial perspectives.
My group has tabled two draft amendments, Amendments 492 and 493, in which there is an addition to the explanatory statement for the budget headings on pan-European road and gas networks, which states that funds could also be used for financing projects which implement the strategies referred to.
The second very important feature of the Grech report is that it has placed the individual at the heart of our objectives.
The 2007 budget promotes the anti-labour Lisbon Strategy and the united market, while at the same time cutting resources for many regions, such as Greece, strengthening inequalities and unequal measures with prospects of it not even being included in the poor Cohesion Fund.
That is why it should be rejected. (PL) Mr President, not only is the 2007 budget the first budget in the new 2007-2013 Financial Perspective, but it is also the first budget relating to 27 Member States, including Bulgaria and Romania.
The 2007-2013 financial framework indicates that payments may amount, at most, to 1.06% of the Union's GNP.
Unfortunately, in its draft payments plan, the European Commission proposed payments totalling barely EUR 116 billion, which amounts to only 0.99% of the Union's GNP.
I think it extremely regrettable that the attempt at doing away with at least 200 posts before moving on to doing more of the same sort of thing should be repulsed in the way in which it has been in paragraph 29 of the Elles report.
The cuts in the budgets of individual institutions proposed by the Council should not be an aim in themselves.
Taking into account the enlargement in 2004 and the next one, which is almost upon us, the overriding aim must first and foremost be to ensure the effective operation of all the Union's institutions.
To conclude, I am pleased that, where external policy is concerned, a balance has been struck that takes account of the peace process in Palestine, even though the reservations voiced will enable us, in my view, to send out a strong signal to the Council in the weeks to come, since we are at first reading. (PT) Although it improves upon the Commission's proposal of 0.99% of Community GNI, and that of the Council at 0.98%, in terms of volume of payments, it comes as no surprise that Parliament's proposal for the Community budget for 2007, at 1.04%, falls short in the very first year of what was agreed in the financial perspective, namely 1.06%, which in our view is itself inadequate if we are to promote genuine economic and social cohesion, particularly given the needs of an enlarged EU.
Given that this is part of the negotiation process, we hope that, unlike what has happened in the past, Parliament will at least seek to ensure that the minimum amounts provided for in the financial perspective for 2007 are adhered to as far as possible, and that these funds are used for the purpose of pursuing an effective economic and social cohesion policy and a genuine policy of cooperation and development.
The Commission is presently finalising its public health programme for 2007-2013.
One in four people in Europe experience at least one significant episode of mental difficulties during their lives and up to 18 million people in the European Union, aged between 16 and 25, suffer from major depression.
In fact, there are even higher levels of depression in Eastern and Central Europe.
While 'Waiting for Godot' - while waiting for 2014 and own resources - we are managing the most modest of appropriations: EUR 116 billion in payment appropriations, which is not even 1% of gross national income.
These changes in form apart, this is a classic budget in every respect.
Firstly, it includes a financial framework for 2007-2013, which is contained within an interinstitutional agreement - the fourth of its kind - signed on 17 May.
It includes Malthusian sums, for example for agriculture: indeed, market expenditure is going to be wilfully reduced by more than EUR 500 million.
It also includes the great classics: EUR 7 billion with which to toy with external policy in the world; EUR 5 billion for a research framework programme that will not research much; and EUR 850 million for the trans-European networks.
A vote in favour of this amendment will demonstrate Europe's respect for its cultural heritage and will strengthen the application of European principles for peaceful coexistence between different religious and ethnic groups.
I hope that the Council will now rethink its stand to date. (SK) Energy security is one of the political priorities of the new financial perspective and the 2007 budget of the European Union.
However, it is necessary to emphasise that resources are limited and much will depend on how efficiently they are used. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, 2007 is going to be a very exciting financial year, for in it, that which the Heads of State or Government, in December last year, adopted as their political priority, and was agreed on by this House and the Council this May, is, for the first time, to become a living reality.
What I will say, in quite specific terms, and speaking as someone from a country that has the honour of providing the EU with one-fifth of its funding, is that our concern is that, when so much money is called for - despite the lack of any increase over the past in terms of percentages of gross national income, although I will mention in passing that gross national income has increased as a consequence of enlargement - there must of course be some value given in return for this money.
The agencies are another issue that we really have to sort out, since there are apparently going to be three more of them.
It is an opportunity in the sense that by making use of the resources approved in the financial perspective, we can begin not only our own process of catching up, but also the structural and cohesion policies that serve as the foundation for Europe's future and its competitiveness.
I am talking about a budget amounting to EUR 170 million and designed to protect our frontiers more effectively and thus reduce the influx.
Suffice it to say that while, up to last week, FRONTEX was coordinating patrols in the Mediterranean, yesterday I saw an advert in the papers announcing that FRONTEX wanted to recruit a director responsible for its sea patrols.
The enlargement of the Union in January will further increase justified demands in this area.
Linguistic diversity is a value that we can under no circumstances renounce. (DE) Mr President, as a number of speakers have already said, what we have here before us is the first budget of the new financial period, and one that is described as a budget for savings, even though the only savings have been in terms of the interests of the European public.
What we are dealing with here is a misconceived budget policy on the part of the European Union's Member States.
Issues such as the fight against terrorism, the funding of a genuine common immigration policy and implementation of the policies linked to the Lisbon Strategy are treated as a priority by the European Parliament at its first reading.
We agree with the strategy on payments proposed by our rapporteur, as well as with the proposed focus on the funding of the common foreign and security policy.
The debate is closed.
