The unfair framework conditions also take the form of, inter alia, the imposition by the EU of mandatory rail tolls applying to all trains on all routes and having no upper limit, whilst road tolls do have an upper limit, are voluntary - the Member States can decide whether to levy them or not - and apply only on motorways and only to lorries above 12 tonnes.
In October, I shall propose to the Commission a communication on a rail network focussed on freight in Europe.
Secondly, we consider it important, with regard to the financing of the further development of the European transport routes, that support be given in particular to the 30 priority trans-European network projects.
I should also like to say a few brief words about the problem of 'gigaliners': that is, ultra-long lorries of 60 tonnes and upwards.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, at a time when we are drawing up the statement for the first railway package, we have to recognise that we are still far short of the target.
I think also that it will be necessary to have more discussion about the Eurovignette directive, as this represented an advance that we must continue, and I am pleased that you have confirmed this evening, Commissioner, that discussions about this are planned from June 2008.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Mr President, Mr Barrot, first of all I would like to thank Mr Cramer for his report, even though it has, certainly, been assessed in highly contradictory ways.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, for many years, everyone has been saying that, in relation to the transport of goods in all European countries, rail is losing the battle.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to ensure speedy implementation of the second railway package, too, by all Member States.
I cannot say any more about it for the time being; we are in the process of working on it.
This modal shift is a real priority cause in Europe.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 11 July 2007.
