Danish presidency The Copenhagen summit was a very particular moment in the life of the European Union.
I had the privilege of representing Parliament during that summit.
I should say also that substantial terrain has been covered in the other work carried out by the presidency.
I certainly want to say on behalf of Parliament to the Danish prime minister how grateful I am at the improved and substantial level of cooperation between our institutions.
The enlargement negotiations of the last sixth months have been like a long-distance race with a series of difficult hurdles that have had to be cleared along the way.
Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency have stayed the course together, and in Copenhagen we passed the finishing line.
I should like to express my thanks for all the efforts made and for the unfailing support and the help along the way.
At the same time, we opened the door to a new era in the history of Europe: an era characterised by freedom, peace, growth and prosperity.
The Copenhagen Summit marked a high point in the history of European cooperation: a triumph for freedom and democracy and a gateway to a better future for all our peoples.
In the field of asylum, we have reached agreement on what is known as the Dublin II regulation, which lays down common rules for which country should take responsibility for handling an asylum application.
We succeeded in reaching agreement on fully opening up the EU's electricity and gas markets.
Agreement has been reached on the emissions trading scheme in CO2.
I should like to take this opportunity to express my thanks for the good and positive spirit that has characterised the cooperation between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency.
Together, we have shown in the last six months that the EU can deliver the goods; that - despite national, institutional and political variations - we can together produce results, create a better, safer daily life for our citizens, create better conditions of competition for our industries and increase Europe's influence in the world.
That is the nature of the beast: it ensured that we ended up achieving the right balance between the wishes of the candidate countries and the possibilities of the present Member States.
The ten new countries can become members from 1 May 2004.
This will then be presented to the Commission first of all, then Parliament and finally the Council for approval, with a view to the treaty being signed in Athens on 16 April 2003.
The conclusions from the Copenhagen Summit also deal with the question of the participation of the new Member States in the institutions of the EU.
We have laid down that the ten acceding states will be able to participate in the 2004 elections to the European Parliament as members.
The accession treaty will lay down that the Commissioners from the new Member States will join the present Commission from the time of the countries' accession on 1 May 2004.
Once the European Council has appointed a new President of the Commission, the newly elected European Parliament can approve a new Commission, which will have to take office on 1 November 2004.
Here, too, I shall call for cooperation between the institutions to find flexible solutions that ensure the best terms for our new Member States.
The issue of Turkey came to be one of the main topics in Copenhagen.
If the European Council decides in December 2004, on the basis of a report and a recommendation by the Commission, that Turkey has met the Copenhagen political criteria, the European Union will open accession negotiations with Turkey as quickly as possible.
This sent a strong and positive signal to Turkey, but I would emphasise that it is still an essential requirement that Turkey meet the political criteria before accession negotiations can be opened.
Cyprus will join as a divided island; but, at the same time, there is a realistic possibility that the parties will be able to find a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus issue by 28 February 2003 on the basis of the UN Secretary-General's proposal.
In addition, at the Copenhagen Summit, there was agreement on the frameworks for the future agreement between NATO and the EU on European Security and Defence Policy.
I should like to mention by way of conclusion that the European Council also met with the Chairman of the European Convention, Mr Giscard d'Estaing.
Now that enlargement is home and dry, the work in the Convention has become the crucial task in European politics.
We have enlarged the EU; we now have to ensure that the EU of the future, with more than 25 Member States, can also function effectively.
The Danish Presidency is now drawing to a close.
The meeting of the President of Parliament with the European Council in Copenhagen was yet another constructive affirmation of the close relations between Parliament and the Council.
The Danish Presidency has attached great importance to meeting the European Parliament with an outstretched hand and the will to enter into constructive cooperation.
We have had our differences, but the cooperation between us has been characterised by progress, results and a willingness to compromise.
The decision, in Copenhagen, on the enlargement of the EU marked the reunification of the peoples and states of Europe, the end of the unfortunate division of our continent and the beginning of a new era in the history of Europe.
The seed sown by the founding fathers of the European Union in Europe's war-torn ground nearly 50 years ago has taken root.
Courage and political will were required on all sides to achieve this result.
I should like to single out the tremendous work done by the Danish Presidency.
It is a unique privilege to be President of the Commission on such occasions, and today I am particularly proud to be the head of an institution that has contributed so much to the accomplishment of our dream of 'One Europe'.
In December 2004 we have a date with Turkey to see if it meets the conditions for opening negotiations.
I was heartened by the fact that the first joint act of the 25 current and acceding Member States was to issue a statement in support of the 'continuous, inclusive and irreversible enlargement process'.
The statement endorsed the Commission's proposal to give Romania and Bulgaria more help in preparing for membership by raising their pre-accession aid by 20%.
Turkey will also be receiving an enhanced package to help it prepare its candidacy, a candidacy which, I stress, will be judged on its own merits and according to the same criteria as all the other candidate countries.
In my opinion, the countries of the western Balkans belong by definition in the European Union and this view was confirmed by the Copenhagen Council.
The Commission is therefore looking forward to working closely with the Greek Presidency in the run-up to the Thessaloniki Summit, at which, I am convinced, we can offer a detailed, practical response to the letter that the five Presidents of the Western Balkans sent us on the eve of the Copenhagen Council.
It must be conducted in this House and in the national parliaments and must involve all the European citizens closely.
This proximity policy must bring our neighbours many of the benefits of membership without them having to join the Union formally in the foreseeable future.
However, our biggest job in the coming months will be to inform and reassure our citizens in both the present Member States and the accession countries.
The Commission will be mounting an extensive information campaign in which the Members of this House will play a crucial role.
There is concern in the current Member States, on the other hand, about the costs and implications of the entry of countries much poorer than themselves.
We are all quite aware that the cost of enlargement is nothing compared with the cost of non-enlargement.
We must therefore disseminate these simple truths throughout Europe and we must work together to make the citizens aware of them.
The credibility of the new, enlarged Europe will, as I have said before, hang, above all, on the credibility of its institutions and its credibility as an active leader on the world stage.
The moment of truth, however, in the coming year will be institutional reform.
The task of the Convention and of all those contributing to its work is therefore just as important as the accession negotiations, for if the Convention does not succeed we will have created a Europe which is large but unable to act.
The success of Copenhagen and the generosity displayed there - we had expected egoism and breaking away but what we found there was a sense of unity in countries for which enlargement has a different meaning, is something different, is being experienced in a different way, but which have all understood the magnitude of what has happened - have shown that, if we can overcome the obstacles still facing us, we will genuinely be able to put to good use the blend of vision and pragmatism that have made the European Union a unique model of political integration.
This is not only because a period of time lies ahead of me in which I will have rather less work to do, but, above all, because I am happy to be able to say that the joint efforts of the European institutions and 25 states in Europe have brought about the success we had hoped for.
On the contrary, what is most important to me is the way that it shows that the Community method is able to conclude, exactly, precisely, and within a timetable, even as complex and difficult a project as negotiations on the accession of ten countries to the European Union.
I believe that everyone here in this House is aware of the important part played by the European Parliament in driving this process forward, for which I am profoundly grateful.
There will also be many outward changes, and we will gain additional responsibilities in our international role.
President Prodi has talked about how we must shape policy in relation to it.
Ladies and gentlemen, our work is not yet complete, neither at home nor in the candidate countries.
Parliament alone has the privilege of coming to a decision on every single accession treaty.
Two countries, that is to say Bulgaria and Romania, can be confident that they will receive even more intensive support in their endeavours to attain membership of the EU in 2007, that now being our common objective.
The political conditions must first be complied with fully and unequivocally, and only then can a decision be made about whether to begin negotiations. (Applause) The Commission will not shirk its responsibilities as regards the report and the recommendation.
Instead, the report will be fair, objective and neutral.
It is now all the more necessary if the success of the ratification process is to be assured.
Let us go into this debate with a cool head and objective arguments, but also with an enthusiasm for the Europe that is now coming into being. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my unreserved approval, appreciation and profound gratitude to the Danes for their presidency, which has been a truly excellent one.
It is important that we should build up a network of contacts in the national parliaments, and for this I would particularly like to extend warm thanks to our counterparts in the Danish parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Danish people, as represented by their government, can take pride in what they have done for Europe over the past six months.
Mr Prodi and Mr Verheugen, I would also, however, like to say a word of heartfelt thanks to the Commission.
If, following the European elections, we have that responsibility, we will insist that the Commission, represented by its President and by Commissioner Verheugen, shall be strict in ensuring that evaluation is not founded on what is politically desirable, but in fact on the law and the criteria - and I have no doubt that they will do so, this being indeed the greatest challenge to face the present Commission.
You referred to human rights, and I think it a real duty and obligation upon us not merely to concern ourselves with our own affairs but also to defend human rights in the European Union's geographical environment and around the world.
I would also like to congratulate the Commission - as the negotiating body - its President, Commissioner Verheugen, and please allow me to mention also the Director-General for Enlargement, Mr Landáburu, with whom I have had the opportunity to fight against Franco's dictatorship and for European integration.
Lastly, Mr President, I would also like to express my group's deep dissatisfaction with the way in which the Council and the Commission are approaching the problem of the Prestige disaster.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on the successful conclusion in Copenhagen of an outstanding Danish presidency.
The full application of the Copenhagen criteria, both in the new countries and in the existing Member States, must remain a matter of concern.
Moreover, there are referenda to be won in all the new countries - referenda in which each and every one of us can play an important part, if we so choose.
A wider Europe must be prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in the world, whether in the Middle East - I congratulate the Council on its firm declaration on that conflict - or elsewhere.
Surveys tell us that four out of ten EU citizens can only give the name of one candidate country, and, out of those who can name one, almost a third say Turkey.
The same applies to the need to provide secure employment and training and to safeguard services of general interest, to the necessary pre-eminence of political choices over market requirements, to the role of the Union on the world stage and to the part played by social players in the decision-making process.
Lastly, Mr President, this major enlargement has been described - outside this Chamber - as a revenge for Yalta.
This Cold-War approach is, I believe, completely outmoded.
Of course it is not; instead, we will be discussing fundamental issues of democracy and of how to make it a reality again.
Finally, I would like to say something about Iraq.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I think that it is natural for the European Parliament to express its opinion regarding the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit and I was just about to compliment the three presidents present on the results achieved.
I would add that the message that we must send to the peoples who are joining us is a message of solidarity, a message of understanding of everything that they experienced during these periods of oppression.
Mr Fogh Rasmussen has managed much better than the euro.
The budgetary funds and the Structural Funds are also in need of revision.
He could not have done very much better with the mandate he was given, but he should now say, in his capacity as Danish Prime Minister, that enlargement will not end well unless there are radical reforms.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the success of the Danish Presidency is, in my view, undeniable.
There are also the three countries of the Caucasus: Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
I hope that the European Union will take particular initiatives in this area.
I would like to thank the Danish Presidency and, through it, the competent Danish authorities for the position which was adopted during the Zakayev affair.
There is, for the Chechen representatives and for the representatives of other oppressed people in the world, a problem regarding residence, a problem regarding freedom of movement in the European Union.
I would like to urge the Danish Presidency to take an initiative in this area.
Commissioner Vitorino pointed out that Article 14(3), which enabled the European Union to draw up black lists with regard to Yugoslavia in 1999, regarding Kosovo, and which has recently made it possible to draw up a black list regarding the Belorussian authorities, also provides the possibility of creating white lists, namely lists of individuals who can be offered freedom of movement and residence on European Union territory.
This would make it possible to prevent unjustified and unjustifiable pressure, such as that exerted on Denmark in the last few months by the Russian Federation.
We desire peace, freedom, stability and respect for human rights, among other things.
Madam President, Winston Churchill once spoke of an iron curtain coming down over Europe.
Copenhagen reunited Europe 13 years after the Berlin Wall came down and 21 years to the day after martial law was imposed in Poland and already these things feel as if they belong to a different age.
The candidate countries still have to meet our standards and they must not be allowed to slacken their efforts.
The Commission still has to draw up its final report on the candidate countries, and we must ensure that the process does not degenerate into a messy argument about the imposition of safeguards.
We must still ensure that the financial arrangements actually work and we must also ensure that Parliament's role in those financial arrangements is fully respected.
We still have to reform our common agricultural policy before it bankrupts us financially and politically.
We must not lessen our efforts towards Bulgaria and Romania, nor must they assume that 2007 is a guaranteed date of accession.
I welcome the decision taken concerning Turkey - although I would have preferred the date of 1 May 2004 - but this must become a defining moment in our relations with Turkey.
We guarantee that negotiations will begin if they meet the Copenhagen criteria by December 2004, but equally, we must be clear that, if the criteria are not met, then Turkey's accession will be off the agenda for the foreseeable future.
If we are to overcome the obstacles ahead - institutional change and the need for political and economic reform - we need such leadership more often and then we can really celebrate.
At last, the continent and its citizens are being united.
The fact that the door was so clearly opened to Bulgaria and Romania was also historic, as was the signal given to Turkey.
It is a union of values that defends democracy and human rights.
There was undoubtedly a certain amount of drama in Copenhagen, but matters should never of course be too pre-arranged from the start.
Powerful leadership is needed, as well as the political courage to dare to implement a number of the institutional reforms required.
The EU must become more democratic.
Enlargement has been a success, but we all know, of course, that things will not get any easier.
Enlargement will not make it any easier to work in the European Union.
For example, it will not become any easier to carry out agricultural reform, but it is even more necessary than before.
We must make a start on this task, therefore.
The question of Turkey's accession is first and foremost a matter for Turkey itself.
Turkey must develop her democracy in such a way that the different peoples, including the Kurds, can feel at home there.
You will also have to convince me because I do not believe that we are in a position to develop the institutions we would need for this? (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, we feel that, at Copenhagen, the European Union was playing a familiar song entitled 'Just one more minute, Mr Executioner'.
So, you are talking of a new Europe, Mr Rasmussen, but let us consult the people of Europe directly and by a referendum to find out if they would rather Europe stayed as it is at present.
One can rejoice in enlargement as an historic event, but one can also be amazed at the way in which Austria was treated as if it were a candidate for accession and at the derisory consideration given to its vital interests.
Madam President, one of the great disadvantages of this Parliament is that it is never short of superlatives when it comes to heaping praise upon the presidencies that take place in this regular six-monthly cycle.
These words have sadly become synonymous with euroscepticism, but the real message that Margaret Thatcher gave at Bruges was about a wider Europe.
We have a structured design for six countries which is now difficult to operate on the basis of 15 countries and which shortly will be a mechanism that will have to serve the interests of 25 countries.
The Convention should not become tied down in a debate covering only institutional matters, but must shift its focus to demonstrate how Europe can become a much more accountable and responsive institution for the future.
Mr President, I should first like to add my voice to the hearty congratulations to the Danish Presidency.
It was in 1993, during the Danish Presidency, that the conditions for enlargement were laid down, and now, ten years later, we have the opportunity to close the cycle during a Danish Presidency, too.
The second thing that I should like to emphasise is the additional opportunity we have which is peculiar to our region of Europe.
We now have a region surrounding the Baltic Sea which almost exclusively consists of Member States of the European Union.
We must also realise that, once the New Year celebrations are over, our feet must be back on the ground, and, in any case, too many major tasks await us - as they do the new countries.
We all know that the common agricultural policy, as it stands, is grotesque and is very detrimental to the developing countries.
I wish to close with a few words about Turkey.
As you know, two things were made clear as far as Turkey is concerned, which in my opinion are very important.
One of them is that it is a candidate country that can join on the same conditions as other candidate countries.
I would like to congratulate the Danish presidency wholeheartedly on the completion of a difficult task.
After all, the summit was not only historic, but also primarily financial in character.
These negotiations are always the most difficult, and the accession countries obviously have an excellent understanding of what the European Union is about.
I also note that although no date has yet been set for negotiations with Turkey, the political criteria are to be evaluated in December 2004, so it is possible that negotiations may start without a national parliament, let alone the citizens of a Member State, becoming involved in such a decision at all.
We need results which are in line with our ambitions.
I shall tackle two specific points.
First of all, I am pleased to have heard the Danish Prime Minister defend the formula of qualified majority and codecision for Community legislation, and I hope that it is all our legislation that he has in mind.
This will be a major contribution to the Convention's work, as he includes, in particular, the idea of the constitution entering into force under a double majority.
I am pleased that we have taken the decision in favour of the EU's predominantly eastward enlargement.
It is now up to the Member States and accession countries to work together to create a realistic Europe.
On the other hand, I regret the European Council's reckless step in respect of Turkey.
It is now clear that the European countries have, to quote the former European Commissioner Karel Van Miert's words in a Flemish newspaper a few days ago, been behaving 'like puppet states of the USA' by effectively giving the green light to Turkey's future accession to the European Union.
Contrary to what some people are claiming, the fact is that the Turks have been given a date for final negotiations and in effect for accession in about 2007.
The Copenhagen criteria are not prohibitive, and are actually not much harder for Turkey to comply with than, say, Romania or Bulgaria.
Russia has not become a new neighbour with enlargement, but an incomparably more important one none the less.
The border will lengthen by hundreds of kilometres in 2004.
If one of Russia's neighbouring countries, including my own, had a Commissioner specially qualified to offer support when problems arise and when positive developments start to take place, the EU could be involved as a background power in talks in quite a different way than is the case now.
This Parliament forms part of the budgetary authority.
Let me sum up, however, speaking also as a budget expert who is accustomed to keeping a very close eye on what money is spent, where it is spent, and how it is spent, by saying that we will take a very positive line on this enlargement as a whole.
We will monitor what can be expected of our present Member States and of the candidate countries.
Decisions in the Council must be taken by qualified majority: this produces a willingness to compromise.
Turkey still has a lot to do and has to get back down to work.
In 2004, it will be assessed in detail and, after this, provided it meets the Copenhagen criteria, will be given a date for the start of its accession negotiations.
I, too, would like to congratulate the Danish presidency, particularly as far as the decision on Turkey is concerned.
I think that this decision has succeeded very well in striking a balance between, on the one hand, recognition of the reforms that have already been adopted and those already announced, and the new government's willingness to go even further if necessary, and, on the other, the ongoing need to stress that the European Union sees legislative changes as very important but that what actually happens with these legislative changes in practice is even more important.
These are all specific examples of areas in which the EU will have to be much, much more specific.
Mr President, with the decision to welcome ten new members to the Union, the Copenhagen European Council has embarked upon a new era, that of Europe reunited.
The meeting of December 2004 was arranged with the usual cynicism in order to side-step the 2004 elections.
This will probably not prevent the citizens from launching the debate themselves on this occasion.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, I think I too must seize this opportunity to get something off my chest, as rarely have I experienced a Council Presidency that has concentrated so intently on the core issues and had such success in making them a reality.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission, and Commissioner Verheugen in particular, for their tremendous cooperation over the past few years, which has also helped us to contribute to this success.
At this time, we should, however, also make some critical observations.
This is in the interests of the European Union as a whole and of its capacity to act even with 25 members.
It is self-evident that we should make particular efforts to implement the institutional process in the context of the Convention's constitutional debate, and I think that the candidate countries should be given every opportunity to play an active political part both in this process within the Convention and also in the subsequent Intergovernmental Conference in accordance with the Laeken formula.
Instead of discrimination, whether positive or negative, there is a progress report by the Commission, and consultation in Parliament and in the Council as to whether the results justify the inception of negotiations.
I really do believe it to be an essential step forward that this has been made clear and that misunderstandings have been prevented.
I would, though, like to point out in addition that we have to have a clear view of the European Union's cohesive power, so that the Union may in future retain its capacity for further development, and, when I see that Tony Blair is saying - as reported in yesterday's media - that, with Turkey we are entering the Islamic sphere and that we should also consider North African membership of the European Union, we should say loud and clear that what lies behind this is a plan to destroy the European Union.
It is true that a number of practical difficulties lie before us, but we are heading in the right direction on the whole, and by this, I am referring not only to the first ten candidate countries, but also to Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey.
There is another section of the summit results which deserves our attention, namely that relating to the European security and defence policy.
The European Council has made progress on three dossiers.
First of all, that on relations between the European Union and NATO.
Lastly, the European Council also indicated that the Union was willing to carry out a military operation in Bosnia following on from SFOR's activities.
European ambitions are, admittedly, still modest in these three areas, but they at least constitute concrete steps forward.
This timetable is very important, however, for the success of the reform and for the European Parliament.
Denmark has not succeeded in showing that the EU is a project for the people and not only for élites.
Denmark's success at the Copenhagen Summit would then merely be the calm before the storm.
Mr President, Copenhagen has opened a debate not just on the European identity but on the geopolitical borders of Europe and the very idea which must underlie the European Union as a Union of the peoples and regions of Europe.
Mr President, the Danish presidency has won admiration for the intelligent and principled way in which the summit was prepared and was made a success.
Turkey is a great deal more difficult.
In doing so, she was forgetting that when she applied in 1963, the European Union was only an economic community with no internal market as we have today, no elected parliament, and no political aspects or ambitions.
The system is too deep-rooted for that.
It may be important to compile a list of the changes we want to see, such as to public order, which is accorded such extraordinary priority that individual human rights also suffer in many other areas as a result.
Mr President, I wish, on behalf of my group, to make a number of short points on institutional questions that have arisen from the historic Copenhagen Summit.
However, I would not like to see the new date being used as an excuse for having a long, drawn-out IGC from autumn 2003 to May 2004.
My third and final point is the question of the number of seats in this Parliament for Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The Czech Republic and Hungary are right to ask for equality.
Secondly, we are witnessing an historic period of history, the full meaning of which we may not yet have grasped: for the first time in the history of mankind, a union of States is being built on the basis of a project of civilisation and shared values without recourse to military force.
And to make Europeans we need this large-scale information campaign promoting Europe - which our President mentioned this morning - which has been announced many times but will have to be implemented practically in the coming months, for what is happening here must be by common agreement between all our fellow European citizens.
We also need to put an end to a much older division, by which I mean the difficulties preventing eastern Europe from moving from the Middle Ages to the present day, difficulties which condemned it to a period of endless stagnation and cost it dearly in terms of both money and blood.
Today's Europe, with the admission of Cyprus and the call for the island's two nations to be reunited, will remedy the tragic consequences of the colonial adventure in - or rather the retrogressive order which governed - this European country.
Of course, the Greek side responds fully to your call for an agreement to be reached by 27 February and, if there is a similar response on the Turkish side, an agreement will be reached.
A stroke of good luck but also intense and extremely commendable work by the Union, and especially by the candidate countries, has meant that the enlargement process, launched in 1992 in the Danish capital and forming the basis of the famous political criteria, named after Copenhagen, on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, has been completed in the same place.
The European Union must, in particular, respond to the need to make fundamental changes to the way it works and to its institutions.
We hope that the European Convention will lead to a draft for a single constitutional treaty that is legible and which responds to the need for a Europe that is more efficient, more democratic and perceived to be more legitimate by all European citizens.
On the one hand, a number of countries - I am thinking here of the Balkan countries - await membership at a later date, and on the other, there are other countries with a well-founded claim to close partnership and equal status, by which I mean Russia and also the states bordering the Mediterranean.
An enlarged EU must, though, strike a new balance between flexible and efficient decision-making and the aspects of the decision-making structures that have to do with democratic policy-making.
The main thing, though, is that there are a number of governments that are far more restrictive than he wishes to be.
I would particularly like to thank President Prodi for the way in which the Commission has again presented a range of proposals that point a way forward to possibly better and, at the same time, more democratic ways of governing, principally indicating how the Council and Parliament can participate in lawmaking with equal rights.
It seems to me that the Council satisfied all of us because it showed that Europe can manage its affairs both wisely and decisively, taking as its criterion the construction of a healthy, democratic structure in which human rights and the proper values of human society are respected.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, as rapporteur for the accession of Cyprus, I fully welcome the decision of the Copenhagen European Council to admit Cyprus to the European Union as a new Member State.
The European Council has therefore honoured the promise made at Helsinki to carry out accession, even in the absence of a political solution.
We now know that neither lack of time nor external pressure can be cited as reasons why it is impossible to accept the UN Secretary-General's proposals as a basis for a global settlement.
Mr Denktash and his entourage are largely responsible for this failure, and I understand the frustration and anger of a large part of the Turkish Cypriot civil society as well as the opposition parties.
At present, there is still a last glimmer of hope that the European Union should bank on: the new Turkish Government could lay a major deal on the table and thus demonstrate that its declared intention to persevere along the path indicated by Europe is, in fact, genuine.
In November, with reference to the Brok Report, Parliament expressed its position with perfect clarity.
I think these considerations make 2003 a very important year.
We should all - Council, Commission and Parliament - be working together on how a large number of individual projects, ranging from customs union to the common foreign and security policy, can enable us to achieve a new kind of co-existence with an important strategic neighbour.
I do not want to go into the details right now, but various Council working parties are meeting right now to resolve a problem for a Member State that joined in 1995.
Last Friday, 13 December, I went to the cinema to see Roman Polanski's film, 'The Pianist', the story of a Jewish musician from Warsaw who survived the Second World War in a miraculous way.
We can be proud of this result.
The credit for this new historic moment goes mainly to those who brought about the momentous changes in 1989 and 1990 and who were astute enough to make the most of the opportunity to turn the new democracies into fully-fledged EU candidate countries.
As rapporteur for this Parliament for Slovakia, I myself have experienced the efforts made by the Slovaks to meet the EU's conditions at close hand.
The emphasis in the reports from the end of last week about the results of the Copenhagen Summit was on the financial arrangements for the negotiations and the Turkey question.
Other problems also play a role in the European Parliament's final assessment that we have to issue for each candidate country.
It is enough in this case to remember our earlier concerns on matters like the battle against corruption, the lack of administrative capacity in the accession countries and the discrimination against the Roma.
This really means that we will not have to change this rotation system in the future.
Experience teaches us that big countries sometimes do not do things very well, and that small countries sometimes do things very well indeed.
Secondly I would like to make some comments on enlargement.
If we are aware that there is still a leeway of some EUR 25 billion before we reach the EU expenditure ceiling, and if we know that we will only be incurring costs of EUR 12 billion in the first year of enlargement, EUR 12.6 billion in the second year and EUR 14.9 billion in the third year, we will know that despite enlargement we will still have money left over in 2006.
Thirdly , I would like to mention Cyprus and Turkey.
I think that this is very important.
I have consistently argued that the accession of Turkey could form an important bridgehead between East and West and help consolidate Turkey as a secular democracy and a calming force in an otherwise unstable region.
As a result of these momentous decisions, our new neighbours will be Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova.
Now is the time to consider what sort of relationship we want to develop with these countries and how far we want it to go.
It will now proceed in May 2004, ironically under the Irish presidency and indeed, Mr President, during your final six months as President of this Parliament.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the year that is coming to its end has been a remarkable one for Europe.
Neither Copenhagen nor participation in the 2004 elections to Parliament bring the accession process to a conclusion.
Far from being already at an end, the process of enlargement is moving forward, and I am thinking not only of Bulgaria and Romania, but also of Croatia and the countries of the former Yugoslavia, of Switzerland and Liechtenstein.
It is my expectation that a resolution will be passed at 3 p.m.
Mr Alavanos, the United Nations peace plan includes a road map, which concludes with the proposal that the process should end with a referendum to be held in Cyprus' Greek and Turkish communities on the same day, and which would combine both questions, that is to say, approval of the resolution of the conflict and approval of membership of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The argument adduced by the rapporteur to the effect that salary increases are only the result of increases in the cost of living, is like the question of whether it was the chicken or the egg that came first. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) When prices increase, the value of wages decreases.
To protect themselves against this, the trade unions in many European countries have battled for years for indexing.
This means that it is not necessary to negotiate on compensation for the reduction in purchasing power every year but only on the extent to which workers should participate in productivity increases and on the making up of arrears suffered by some occupational groups who have been underpaid for years.
Official statistics on wage costs and the development of prices become an important item of information in labour disputes and in the way in which governments and employers attempt to manipulate these disputes.
The regulation on labour cost index will not eliminate this conflict of interests. . (PT) The Commission considers a labour cost index to be of utmost importance for the European Central Bank, to monitor inflation in the EMU, and for social partners to use in negotiating wage agreements.
The current proposal seeks to remedy that by establishing a common framework for the production, transmission and evaluation of comparable labour cost indices.
The Commission will submit a report to Parliament and the Council every two years on the regulation's implementation, including an assessment of the quality of the data supplied.
The rapporteur considers that these changes are in line with the spirit of the original proposal and I therefore wish to use this explanation of vote to express my favourable position. . (PT) Having seen that the lack, to date, of a common framework for the production, transmission and evaluation of comparable labour cost indices has been a major weakness in the action plan for EMU statistics - a fact that will also have a detrimental effect on inflation in the Eurozone - I have supported this report, which rightly seeks to guarantee the existence of this common framework.
The passing on of contaminated blood can and does have fatal consequences and I welcome strongly the proposals to regulate the transportation of blood and to ensure supervision by qualified staff, which represent an important step forward in this directive.
I would like to thank medical staff at Addenbrookes Hospital in Cambridge and at the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, both of which are in my constituency, who have given me help and advice so that I could contribute to this directive.
We should also appeal to the 94% of people who do not give blood to do so in future. . (PT) This report has sought to ensure that more rigorous standards are adopted for the eligibility of blood and plasma donors and that blood donations are screened, to establish a Community-level quality-control system for blood transfusion centres, complemented by an equivalent system of control and approval in the Member States and to set common standards for staff training and the traceability of blood from donor to patient.
Because this compromise strengthens the citizens' right to obtain information from national, regional or local authorities, specifically in the event of river contamination, the construction of new projects or the destruction of natural habitats of protected species of flora or fauna, thereby increasing transparency in areas of common interest, I could only vote in favour of this report. . (PT) I have, of course, voted in favour of this important report, which seeks to establish common criteria for access to information, to ensure public participation in the decision-making process and access to justice in environmental matters, because I believe that this access to information - and I am talking about high-quality information - on environmental matters must today be considered to be a standard prerogative of citizenship.
On 21 November, Parliament made a strong statement on the Prestige accident.
It is my hope that Parliament will make an active contribution - and I am quite sure that it will - to the rapid achievement of the goals set.
We cannot, following the Erika and the Prestige, allow another Erika or Prestige to sully our coasts.
The result of this debate and your vote tomorrow, here in Parliament, must therefore be the same result as that of 6 December in the Council of Ministers, in other words, a clear, determined will to implement radical changes, to take decisions immediately, in all the Member States of the Union and to go further, at international level, because, I repeat, we need to protect European coastlines first of all, but Europe also has international leadership responsibilities, which mean that we need to respect and maintain clean seas throughout the world, not just along our own coastlines.
I would therefore like to thank the Danish Presidency for its work, but I would then like to say that the statements made the other day must be put into practice, in each and every country in the European Union.
Putting them into practice means that when decisions are taken to prohibit the entry into and exit from European ports of single-hulled vessels carrying oil, tar, bituminous products or heavy fuel oil, these decisions must be upheld.
It means asking the Commission to present a proposal to bring forward the deadline for banning single-hulled vessels, single-hulled oil tankers, for oil transportation, from our waters and then supporting this proposal when it is on the table at the Council of Ministers.
It means that when we say we are going to promote progress in international maritime legislation at international level, adapting international maritime legislation to new challenges, new risks and new social demands, we really do promote this from now on, all together, all Fifteen of us, and, I hope, the ten new States and the other candidate countries. (Applause) It means that when we say we are going to allow the Agency, which we are currently setting up and which will begin work, I hope, in January, to begin to monitor and indicate, where necessary, any deficiencies or shortcomings, we pay attention to the Agency when it does point any out and that we take the necessary steps to correct them.
Immediately banning the use of all vessels but the most secure means banning single-hulled vessels in the transportation of the most contaminating products and therefore requiring the use of double-hulled vessels.
I would now like to put forward a proposal that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is to table, for the Conference of Presidents to request a report from the European Commission and make the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism responsible for holding a public hearing on maritime transport safety in Europe and the consequences of this kind of accident.
I shall end, Mr President, by calling upon the Socialist Group in general, but more particularly my fellow Spanish Members.
Mr President, yet again this Parliament finds itself debating another maritime disaster.
We are now faced with a disaster of such magnitude that it is no longer just a transport issue, it is also an environmental, social and fishing issue, which is why my group believes a committee of inquiry is needed to ascertain what went wrong with the Prestige.
On behalf of my group, I express to the people of Galicia our sadness at their tragedy and our solidarity and support in their battle against this modern-day black death that is threatening their livelihoods and damaging their shores.
I say to the people of Galicia that it should be our own Council of Ministers and the IMO, not them, with oil on their hands at this moment.
They have let the people of Galicia and all of us down on this issue of maritime safety.
What we need is action - to ban the flags of convenience in our waters; to improve our port state control; to ensure that the ships of shame are detained; to ban all single-hull tankers; to ensure that those responsible for these disasters pay the full cost of the damage that they caused; and last, but not least, to ensure that the Prestige is the last tanker to spread its black death over our coastline.
When I see how this event is destroying the livelihoods of so many people and of a whole region, we are all angry.
On behalf of my group I can tell you that our hearts are with them all, and I believe that we must offer them help through all the channels we have.
There is still a document being debated in the Council, Mr Haarder, and I hope that you will do something about this.
We must also tighten up a number of things that are contained in Erika I and II; I am thinking in particular of ports of refuge and safe anchorages.
The Commission must negotiate and must be given the opportunity to talk about this; then we will have much stricter rules.
International legislation - and this is clearly stated in the resolution we all agree on - cannot be a reason to destroy the environment and people's lives.
Mr President, the speed at which the European Union has taken certain decisions is a perfect illustration of what up till now has been Community inaction in the field of maritime safety.
The Council, and I am now going to refer to its previous management, who could have prevented the current situation from arising, considerably shortened the Commission's proposal, thus allowing floating timebombs to continue sailing until 2005, instead of having taken them out of use in September 2002, which is what would have happened if attention had been paid to the Commission.
From this modest experience I am going to say, first of all, that you have forgotten that you prevented a committee of inquiry from being set up in the Spanish national Parliament.
Secondly, it is one thing to take decisions that could be questionable and that, at best, have proved to be wrong, and it is another, more serious, matter to adopt a communication policy to deny the problem, failing to take preventative and corrective action.
What is done is done.
We condemn the fact that the Council has only adopted part of the Commission's proposals.
Here, we would like to pay tribute to the Belgian Minister - who, moreover, is one of the few remaining Greens - who was one of the very few people to support the package proposed by the Commission and to fight for it to be adopted in its entirety.
The European Union needs its own legislative framework because we are absolutely sure that the international community will not be able to produce adequate legislation.
Firstly, the port state control bodies must carry out inspections on at least 25% of the ships entering each of the ports of the individual Member States rather than an average calculation being carried out at national level.
Moreover, we feel that the Commission proposal for a directive on environmental liability must also include marine pollution and that, in the event of oil spillage, the European Union must adopt the same financial responsibility system as that already applied in the United States, where ship owners have unlimited financial responsibility if blame for the incident can be attributed to them.
Lastly, Mr President, the European Union must provide sufficient financial support through the Structural Funds and through the Solidarity Fund to meet the needs of Galicia and northern Spain and help them to recover from this disaster.
At the moment, we are still in shock and this shock is at once good and bad for us.
Our group also wishes to draw attention to a new raft of preventive measures.
Mr President, all policy-makers must realise that our dependence on imported oil inevitably brings with it transportation risks.
Thirdly, Member States must offer tangible help to ships and areas that are in distress.
Incidentally, our attention should not be directed solely at the cargo but also at the bunker oil used as fuel for the ships themselves.
Mr President, the European Union Member States agreed last summer that ships in distress should immediately be accommodated in a place of refuge.
The Spanish Government, on the contrary, decided to tow the Prestige into open sea, regardless of the consequences.
The disaster of the Prestige has become the disaster of José María Aznar and the 'prestige' of the Galician people.
Obviously we need to address the question of single hulls, obviously we need to examine the question of flags of convenience, no doubt about it; but we must not overlook all the other questions which we often underestimate.
The Galician citizens - my fellow citizens - who are caught up in a titanic fight against the oil that has arrived on their doorsteps, have been the casual victims and have paid the price for all European citizens.
The pathetic images that have been shown around the world - which have shown what I saw - make it unnecessary, Mr Galeote, for me to give any further explanation.
What my people in Galicia cannot understand is why, if all of Europe recognises the lesson that we as a people are giving, the PPE-DE Group in this Parliament continues to deny us the opportunity to clarify what has happened, assess the damage and propose emergency and crisis management programmes at European level that could serve all Europeans.
Do not insult us by asking us for complicity in the decisions of a government that for a whole month tried to minimise this disaster and has been incapable of mobilising the Community institutions.
On the other hand, Mrs de Palacio, you should ask the Spanish Government a question.
Mr President, the disaster caused by the Prestige oil tanker took place more than a month ago and we still do not know how long we will continue to see waves of oil slicks, which alone is an indictment of the leaders of Spain and the EU for having adopted such belated and ineffectual measures in an attempt to play down the effects of the real tragedy that has befallen the communities and the sea of Galicia, but which has also spread to the maritime territories to the North and to the South, affecting Portugal and France.
We must also go further, however, as my group has proposed in the proposal to which I have added my name: banning flags of convenience and the transport of oil products and other dangerous materials in single-hull tankers, establishing shipping lanes that are further from the coast and stepping up inspections are crucial measures for preventing further tragedies.
The Copenhagen decisions have not answered the anguished questions of the citizens but instead the interests of the predatory capitalism of the oil companies which, taking advantage of the murky and primitive international situation, reject all and any attempt to establish European legislation to protect our seas.
The Council has granted Galicia and the neighbouring territories a miserable EUR five million more, whereas the United States, which has strict and specific legislation, clearly lacking in Europe, is claiming USD four billion for the Exxon Valdez accident.
Mr President, the Commission recognised the need to take further initiatives, and in doing so, implicitly acknowledged the inadequacy of the directives that it had itself proposed in 2000, particularly concerning the transport of heavy fuel, which was already in question as a result of the sinking of the Erika and the timetable for scrapping single-hull tankers.
The Commission also quite rightly acknowledges that two elements, which are essential for guaranteeing safety at sea, do not fall within the competence of the Union.
The first element is the protection of coastal waters against ships in transit which present a threat to the marine environment, as was the case of the Prestige; in this regard, Article 220 of Part 12 of the Montego Bay Convention clearly enables coastal States to exert strict controls.
The success encountered in this area is a result of the lasting political will of the States concerned.
As a result, either the IMO demonstrates that it is capable of dealing with this issue, or the European Member States must consider taking back their freedom and putting in place their own system, which is what the Americans have done with considerable success.
The European Council merely expresses regret and its grave concern at the consequences of the sinking of the Prestige and assures Galicia of its support.
On the other hand, I congratulate the Commission on its determination and I pledge the European Parliament's support.
The political will of the Fifteen Member States is essential.
Europe could have and should have prevented the Prestige disaster.
The Commission has worked well, but what are we going to do now?
I am sure we will make the provisions on single-hull vessels more stringent, I am sure we will step up the measures on battered old boats, I am sure we will step up this, that and the other.
In short, bold political decisions are needed.
A genuine European maritime safety agency, in which the trade unions would be represented, could and should use an adequate number of inspectors in order to monitor ships and crew working conditions.
I hope and believe that this time the European Union has learnt its lesson.
The real victim is the entire people of Galicia.
We know that this path ought to be trudged by a whole host of Heads of State and Government, along with their Transport Ministers, in order to do penance for their sins of omission.
Parliament decided on this one and a half years ago, but until today the Council has had nothing to say on the subject.
Mr Haarder, the Prestige sailed past Copenhagen.
Commissioner, what we need from the Commission by April 2003 is a report deciding whether and, if so, how all these candidate countries should play their part in Europe's policy on safety at sea.
After the Erika disaster, and given the extent of the damage caused by the Prestige, it is now urgent, Commissioner, to bring forward the date for applying the measures adopted.
I am, however, also of the opinion that they are still inadequate.
Prevention also means taking the swift and courageous decision to ban flags of convenience in the territorial waters of the Union.
Europe should send a clear message to the maritime industry by proposing significant improvements to the social situation of sea-workers and by involving their organisations, as well as citizens' associations, in drawing up and implementing specific and essential new measures to enhance safety at sea.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Haarder, I am glad that you are here and that we are engaged in discussion, but I must go straight to the heart of all these debates.
I was delighted to read the resolutions from the Transport Ministers' Council of 5 and 6 December on increased safety at sea, but - alas - I have no faith in them.
My second point, Mr President-in-Office, is that Mr Piecyk and others have already referred to the fact that a number of Member States are failing to meet the obligation imposed on them by the port state directive of controlling 25% of the vessels calling at EU ports.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the shipwreck of the Prestige has demonstrated the powerlessness of the European authorities and the various Member States when faced with a disastrous situation like this one which, although the coasts it has ravaged belong to Galicia, is nevertheless a European disaster and is felt to be so by all European citizens.
I hope that the investigation requested by Parliament will be undertaken in a thorough and timely manner.
And, as I have already said in this Chamber, we must also clear up the mysterious change of direction taken by the ship which, after moving westwards, turned suddenly towards the South, until it sank, thirty miles outside Portuguese waters.
The third aspect is that a technically and scientifically justified decision must be taken on what to do with the ship, which is now lying on the ocean floor with its 60 000 tonnes of oil.
Unless this is resolved, we will be condemned not only to an oil slick but to a succession of oil slicks for months and years to come.
Mr President, we could classify the speeches made in the course of this debate into two categories: firstly, those which view the problem from a European perspective and which propose actions to be implemented through European and Community policy and, secondly, those which, at this time of human tragedy, tragedy for a country, which is five months from an election, believe that this is an opportunity to gain electoral advantage without considering what the real consequences for these people are.
Mobilise the European institutions; yesterday we had a meeting with Commissioner Barnier, during which he acknowledged the talks and contacts he had had with the Spanish Government.
Mr Sterckx and others are right in saying that it is not the number of inspections which is crucial, but that inspection is carried out at the right points.
It is a requirement that 25% are to be inspected; it is also correct that some countries are not meeting this requirement - and naturally that is wrong.
Having said this, however, I would also like to say to the honourable Members and to everybody, let there be no mistake, that out there in waters off our coasts and other coasts of the world, there are currently more than 400 Erikas or Prestiges.
The Agency, which will soon be operational - its board of management has already met, because we have brought forward its implementation and although it does not yet have its final headquarters it is beginning to function already - will have to ensure that in all ports of the Union - and it must be in all of them, since there cannot be ports of convenience in the European Union - appropriate controls are carried out in the appropriate way.
The fifteen States are already members and have acted in a coordinated fashion, but more is needed, the Commission must also be able to participate in this forum, in which it will be able to promote issues such as the responsibility of States with flags of convenience, that is, the system of obligatory audits which is being proposed within the context of the International Maritime Organisation.
We must talk to Russia, we have the Baltic, which is an enclosed sea, where any accident, just as with the Mediterranean, would be much more tragic and would have much more dramatic consequences from an environmental point of view than in an open sea such as the Atlantic Ocean, which has greater capacity for regeneration.
Because we must manage to strengthen, guarantee and safeguard all our coasts and those of our neighbours and make progress in the international field.
I am sure that this time the States of the Union will really honour what they have said.
Well I will tell you: a reprogramming of EUR 10 million, of the Objective 2 funds, which Brittany benefited from.
We are also talking about reprogramming the Cohesion Funds or Structural Funds allocated to Spain or to Galicia.
European solidarity is shown through funds and the Commission has been able to use them, as have the authorities, for example, of the Council, which has said yes clearly, and which has raised the possibility of adopting additional specific measures because, ladies and gentlemen, there are unfortunately still 50 000 tonnes of fuel oil on the sea bed. 50 000 tonnes of fuel oil in two wrecks which, unfortunately, are still leaking oil.
To conclude these Council and Commission statements, I have received 7 motions for resolutions presented in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
In no way have I tried to call Mr Galeote a thief.
What I want to say, Mr President and Mrs Díez, is that committees of inquiry are laid down in Rule 151 of our Rules of Procedure - I would ask you to read them, please.
And this request to create a committee of this type is justified by non-compliance with Community law, and it has been said here, explicitly and literally, by some of your colleagues and compatriots, that the intention through this committee is to establish the responsibilities of the Spanish Government in relation to the Prestige disaster.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m.
With the Treaty of Amsterdam, it was decided that various measures on asylum and immigration should be taken within five years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, that is, 1 May 2004.
As we know, the European Council repeated and reinforced its desire for action in these areas in Tampere in October 1999, in Laeken in December 2001 and in Seville in June of this year.
In Seville, specific priorities were devised along with deadlines for adoption of the individual legal acts.
We have not simply met these deadlines; we have gone even further.
As was stated in the Seville conclusions, the Council must find the right balance between, on the one hand, an integration policy for immigrants who have settled lawfully in the Member States of the Union and an asylum policy that complies with the international conventions - first and foremost the Geneva Convention of 1951 - and with the efforts required, in particular the efforts to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking.
The implementation of the Seville conclusions has been a task of the Danish Presidency.
This applies also to the issue of combating illegal immigration and administering the external borders.
Seventeen different projects and initiatives have been implemented with a view to strengthening border controls at both sea and land borders and at airports.
With regard to asylum policy, substantial progress has been made in respect of implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam objectives and the priorities set in Seville.
The European Fund for Refugees was established back in September 2000, and in July 2001 a directive was adopted on minimum standards of temporary protection in cases of mass influx of displaced persons.
There is now agreement in the Council on the Dublin II regulation, which is expected finally to be adopted.
There is possibly one more parliamentary reservation, but I am sure that we will be able to adopt the Dublin II regulation - possibly as soon as tomorrow, when there is a Council meeting in Brussels.
The Commission's proposal for minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers is similarly expected to be adopted at the Council meeting tomorrow.
Over the past six months intensive negotiations have taken place concerning the Commission's proposal to set minimum standards for the recognition of third-country nationals and stateless persons as refugees or persons in need of subsidiary protection.
Substantial progress has been made, and there is now political unanimity on the definition of a refugee and political unanimity on the definition of subsidiary protection.
The things on which agreement has been reached are some of the difficult things.
At the Council meeting in October we had an open debate on the Commission's revised proposal on minimum standards for asylum procedures at which the ministers of the Member States contributed various comments on the proposal.
As far as immigration policy is concerned, the Seville conclusions state that the Council must approve the Commission's proposal for provisions on family reunification and long-term residence status by June 2003.
As regards the proposal on long-term residence status, on 15 October 2002 the Council discussed a number of outstanding political issues.
A certain amount of progress has been made in this area under the Danish Presidency, but a number of crucial issues remain - including the right to a certain form of free movement.
The Council will work towards meeting the deadline laid down in Seville for adoption of the proposal.
At the same time, an open debate was held in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs on 15 October 2002 on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the conditions for entry and residence by third-country nationals for study purposes.
Parliament has been consulted in all these cases, and Parliament's statements have been incorporated, or will be incorporated, into the basis for the Council's decision.
The Council looks forward to even closer cooperation with Parliament in the area of asylum following the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice.
I hope that I have, in this way, given you a comprehensive status report as regards the results achieved within the area of asylum and immigration policy.
I know that the Commissioner felt this too, as indeed I myself did, when I sat on the relevant committee here in Parliament.
Mr President, I could have spoken for much longer, since in reality there are a great many initiatives - for example, in the area of border controls, in which a full 17 initiatives have been implemented - which I could have talked about for a long time, but everything must come to an end, so I will stop here and let the Members' contributions decide what we will discuss in more detail in the hour ahead.
Mr President, although the Commission has presented all the proposals required by the Treaty 18 months ahead of the deadline set by the Treaty of Amsterdam, it is true that only a few of the objectives defined for the establishment of a common asylum and migration policy have effectively been met.
I hope that the Council will continue to press ahead quickly with the examination and adoption of the several measures under discussion, as the European Council requested at both Laeken and Seville.
I recognise that under the Danish presidency significant progress was made, not only as far as the Seville conclusions are concerned, but in particular on the development of the common asylum policy.
In fact, the Dublin II regulation is expected to be formally adopted in the Justice and Home Affairs Council tomorrow.
Together with the start of operation of the Eurodac system, which is scheduled for 15 January 2003, this will constitute a positive step forward.
I am fairly optimistic about the discussions in the Council on the directive laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in Member States.
Thanks to the adoption of this legislation, the first phase of the common European asylum system is progressively taking shape.
However, as the President-in-Office said, good progress was made, thanks to an energetic Danish presidency, on a common definition of 'refugee' and a common approach to subsidiary protection.
Little remains to be done on this key proposal which could be adopted by the Council at its first meeting in 2003.
I also expect the Council to speed up the examination of our amended proposal on asylum procedures, which we presented six months ago.
Moreover, the time has come to consider seriously the forward-looking ideas that were recently presented by the High Commissioner, Ruud Lubbers, and which have been blessed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Executive Committee.
In early 2003 the Commission intends to put forward a communication where we will express our own views on the main elements of this new agenda for protection presented by Mr Lubbers.
As you know - and as already mentioned by the President-in-Office - the directives on family reunification and long-term residence status are still under examination.
I encourage the incoming Greek presidency to finalise these negotiations as soon as possible.
The rules on admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment, presented by the Commission in July 2001, have now been complemented by a new proposal, presented in October, on the conditions for entry and residence for study purposes.
In this document we also elaborate on the possibilities, but also the limitations, of the Community budget in this area.
I would like to take this occasion to confirm that the Commission will put forward a proposal in 2003 with the aim of establishing a multiannual programme of cooperation with third countries in the field of migration, working on the experience that we have gained on the basis of the use of budget line B7-667.
Our intention is to respond in a specific and complementary way to the needs of third countries in their efforts to ensure better management of all aspects of migratory flows and to stimulate them in their preparation for implementation of the readmission agreements or to assist them in the implementation itself.
This programme complements other Community cooperation and development instruments.
Those of us involved in the formulation of this policy should not forget that we have been pioneers in laying the first building blocks of European legislation and policy on such a difficult subject as migration and asylum, and Parliament most of all.
Nevertheless, this first attempt at building a policy has also taught us a few lessons.
This policy is still encumbered by too many institutional and legal constraints, as the President-in-Office was commenting in his remarks on conventions.
Codecision should become the norm and general provisions should allow the Commission to formulate a fully harmonised policy.
Unanimity in the Council - especially in view of an enlarged Union - appears more and more to be an invitation to stalemate.
Therefore, I am very pleased with the constructive conclusions reached by the Bruton report within the framework of the Convention.
They point in the right direction as to the future of European policy on asylum and migration.
But when it comes to immigration, no country is an island.
As a policy issue, immigration is simple.
What a pity that our governments did not listen a little more carefully to the advice of the Canadian Government about how, if we wished to get on top of the trafficking in people, we should open our front door a little to legal migration, in order to close our back door more effectively against illegal migration.
The debate has been dominated by the repressive aspects of migration policy and has shown scant regard for its humanitarian aspects.
I regret not only the EU's failure to establish effective and complete policies on immigration and asylum, but also its failure to ensure responsible stewardship of our economy which is intimately linked with immigration.
So for economic reasons too, we need a mature debate about a policy of managed migration.
I have been asked to report on the readmission agreement with Hong Kong.
I regret that Parliament has been neither consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations on this readmission agreement, that we find ourselves in the position of having to deliver our opinion after the agreement has been initialled - and, moreover, after the Agriculture Council on 23 December adopted the decision authorising its signing.
According to Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure, throughout the negotiations - and here I quote: 'The Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress of the negotiations'.
I deplore the fact that did not happen, all the more so because this is the first readmission agreement negotiated by the Community.
In the case of future agreements, I ask that Parliament be kept informed about the state of negotiations by the Commission and the Council.
It is an integral part of any credible immigration policy.
Return has risen to prominence essentially because of the way in which our over-stretched asylum systems are being used as alternatives to a closed-door immigration policy.
When the Council adopted its return action programme at the end of last month, I am sure it took into account the many advantages of assisted voluntary return, as well as the possibility of forced return.
The advantage of assisted voluntary return is that it permits return in a non-punitive and a cost-effective way.
It is more convenient and it is less costly, both financially and politically, than deportation.
But our policy needs to be rational, driven not by prejudice, but by a sober assessment of our needs.
That policy must also address gender and health issues which are vital in this debate.
There is a danger that today's debate will be confused with a debate on Hong Kong tomorrow which reflects concern about the implementation of Article 23 of the Basic Law.
I accept the assurance given on 10 December by Donald Tsang, Hong Kong's Chief Secretary, when he gave his personal guarantee about the free flow of information and the freedom of speech remaining essential characteristics of Hong Kong society.
Authorisation has already been given for the negotiation of such agreements with many countries - some of them have even been initialled.
The fact is that some of those agreements will be far harder than this one.
The House would like answers to all these questions.
I would like clarification as to which coherent and transparent financial instrument will be used for the return policy in question and readmission agreements in particular.
The role of the European Parliament as one arm of the budgetary authority is clearly important in this, and I would be interested to know whether we will, from a financial point of view, need a new legal base for this policy.
The human rights clause in the readmission agreement used for Hong Kong is not strong enough to protect us against all eventualities in such agreements with other countries.
It proves not only the willingness of Hong Kong to commit to cooperation in the management of migratory fluxes with the European Union, but it also reinforces the credibility of the 'One Country, Two Systems' principle.
As far as this concrete agreement is concerned, we have adopted a balanced approach.
As you may recall, the European Union decided to grant visa-free access to Hong Kong citizens in March 2001 and, at the same time, we proposed the negotiation of a readmission agreement.
I recognise that we should have kept Parliament better informed regarding these negotiations.
Nevertheless, we take seriously the fact that we will now negotiate several readmission agreements.
I can assure you that I have already contacted the secretariat of the Citizens' Rights Committee to establish how Parliament can be granted direct access to information on how negotiations on readmission agreements are developing.
As far as the oral question is concerned, the Commission does not have exact figures concerning the overall scale of voluntary and forced repatriation promoted by Member States.
For instance, I cannot distinguish between voluntary returns and forced returns because national Member States' statistics do not make the distinction.
We recognise the need for better information and, therefore, we will present a proposal during the Greek presidency to have a specific instrument for exchange of harmonised and standardised statistics so far as asylum and migration policy are concerned.
That is exclusively the responsibility of the Member States.
As you know, we have published a Green Paper, we have presented an action plan and the Council has endorsed this action plan.
I hope that, in the framework of the debate on communications about migration and development, we will be able, together with Parliament, to discuss what the key elements of return policy in the European Union are.
The number of people who have been organised to return voluntarily to their own country or to their former country is relatively low.
The whole of our asylum policy - or at the very least our return policy - must meet the requirements of human dignity in all respects.
Such cases naturally occur in all countries.
As far as the Hong Kong agreement is concerned, I wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Watson says about it.
Its legitimacy naturally depends on our approval.
I think that it is very important, particularly from the point of view of human dignity in respect of third countries.
If we have a homogenous, or relatively homogenous, asylum policy, one in which we have co-ordinated many different standards, we will be able to provide information on it in third countries so that the people there will know what treatment they can expect everywhere in the European Union.
Mr President, Mr Haarder, at the last Justice and Home Affairs Council, thanks to the complexity of Community procedures, you adopted a very effective measure in the fight against illegal immigration, but you probably did not realise - because it was the final point on the agenda - that, without debate, you approved the conclusion of an agreement extending and increasing the quotas for the import of tomatoes from Morocco.
We have on the table a full range of proposals from the Commission in relation to immigration policies, a proactive immigration policy, and I will not list them since I will bore Parliament if I do so in every speech.
At the European Council in Seville, without having done its homework in this field, the Council once again established priorities and time limits in relation to immigration policy.
If you take a walk around our cities, you will see that illegal immigration has more to do with domestic staff, people working in agriculture and people working in our restaurants.
Of course, this global approximation must include a repressive aspect, but in order to ensure the fulfilment of an immigration policy, in order to control illegal employment - if Berlusconi will allow me - in order to establish a policy for integration of external trade.
If we do not have this global approximation, if we do not focus on this approach, we are not going to be effective in the fight against illegal immigration.
Mr President, we all acknowledge that there have been two problems in the achievement of common asylum and immigration policies: lack of speed and lack of balance.
After apparent agreement on the text last April, debate was reopened.
The result was that the Germans got their way, and consequently there is no requirement to allow asylum seekers to work if a decision on their case is not forthcoming within a year.
If there was qualified majority voting and codecision with this Parliament, neither clause - I am sure - would be in this text since a more progressive majority would have prevailed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that what has been said on this subject is very important.
I believe that, although we set the objective of harmonisation with the Treaty of Amsterdam and we took a huge step forward at Tampere, thanks, amongst other things, to Commissioner Vitorino's involvement, we took two steps back with the Seville European Council.
What was proposed at Seville was very disturbing, because if we had carried the Seville proposals through to their logical conclusion, we would have imposed sanctions on the countries of the South that are already suffering from famine, war and violence.
We know that, today, the UK army can turn people away and we know that there are refugee camps in France.
In my view, therefore, cancelling third world debt, Commissioner, and helping development with a good governance policy appear to be solutions that we must not disregard if we want to have a fairer and more humane immigration policy.
As far as the procedure is concerned, the lack of information given to Parliament raises the issue of the role and powers of parliamentarians: it is our democratic credibility that is at stake.
These issues are real issues.
Mr President, there are two aspects to this issue: firstly, the problem of excluding unwanted migrants from the European Union - or at least controlling their access; and, secondly, the reasons for migration.
Virtually all its external policies in respect of third countries and its policies towards the candidate countries seem geared to causing migration from less-developed countries.
While it subsidies its own industries - especially agriculture through the unreformed common agricultural policy - and it dumps subsidised goods on the world market, all of this destabilises third-world economies.
These policies are making the problems worse.
It would make far more sense to stop damaging third-country economies, rather than embarking on these extraordinary new ventures.
In other words, leave immigration control to the Member States - a policy that my party supports - and address the failures of existing policies.
However, although we are more aware of the dangers related to illegal immigration, that does not mean that the Union has practically implemented all the most effective measures for opposing it, such as, for example, readmission agreements with third countries, which must progress much faster and be much more practical, given that - as we are all aware - the Union has strong tangible grounds for putting pressure on these countries.
On the coasts of southern Italy, the flow of illegal immigrants ferried to the country by sea continues, despite the adoption of new, more stringent criminal legislation against traffickers, precisely because there has been no fall in the support or complicity traffickers enjoy in countries such as Albania or Turkey.
We therefore need a coherent European policy which takes account of all the elements inherent to the phenomenon of migration.
The European Councils in Tampere, Laeken and Seville have represented a significant advance in the field of immigration.
Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of other aspects still awaiting substantial progress.
Now, in order to prevent clashes with the receiving society, and as was acknowledged at the fourth Mediterranean forum in Bari, held on 17 and 18 June, it is necessary not to forget the twin aspects of the phenomenon, that is, the need to also work to ensure the respect on the part of the immigrants for the principles and values of the society receiving them.
This is a task which, in order to be successful, must be carried out in close cooperation with the third countries bordering the European Union.
And to move on to the field of asylum, Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of, and respect for, the Geneva Convention, regulating, in a complementary manner, other necessary forms of international protection for those cases included in it.
Where repressive measures, including combating illegal immigration, are concerned, the Council has once again done a lot of energetic work this year.
The removal and return policy has now been added to this as a priority.
In this context we are talking today about the readmission agreement with third countries, in this case Hong Kong.
Parliament was more or less left standing on the sidelines during the negotiations for this agreement, and has not been able to act in accordance with its allotted role.
Or is our policy of return primarily a virtual policy intended for domestic consumption, and is it supposed to mask the fact that the political courage to tackle the real problems is lacking?
Secondly, is forced return not supposed to be a tailpiece of our policy of return, a last resort, and what instruments does the European Union actually have to promote voluntary return in order to avoid forced return?
However, I am less satisfied with the EU's refugee and immigration policy.
All human beings are entitled to seek asylum within the EU.
A humanitarian EU must be able to do better.
A global approach means that we need to focus on the two aspects of the set of problems posed by asylum and immigration; the causes underlying them and how we can combat their abuse.
It would probably be easier to make everything that is illegal legal, but we cannot do this.
This Commission's desire to integrate European immigration policy is a wonderful opportunity to ensure that, instead of spending development funds on monitoring borders and the forced repatriation of immigrants, they are assigned to more constructive activities in accordance with the principle of combating poverty which governs European cooperation policy.
In this way, the Commission would be acting coherently with itself, since it states, in the communication we are debating today, that it is aware that the European Union's relations with the developing countries must be based on solidarity.
Article 13 of the Cotonou Agreement on readmission led to problems and protests.
We will be vigilant in order to prevent, by means of the reallocation of the scant resources in category 4, any modification of the development priorities established by this Parliament, especially given that the Commission's report demonstrates the concern at the lack of money available for resolving this problem.
I agree with you on this point and I hope that you will work towards this goal.
Mr President, Parliament today appears to have become aware of the problems related to mass, illegal immigration that Europe has been experiencing for 30 years.
The Sangatte refugee camp has closed, that is all very well.
It is once again a matter of urgency, as a first step as a safeguard and a precaution, to restore controls at all our national borders and to condemn the irresponsible and obsolete Schengen agreements.
Mr President, at the Seville European Council, three fundamental aspects of the Union's immigration policy were specified: firstly, the necessary management of migratory flows, in cooperation with countries of origin; secondly, taking account of the integration of legal immigrants; and finally, opening up negotiations of readmission agreements at European level.
With regard to the first point, initiatives such as the proposal for a Directive on the free movement of citizens or family regrouping, or those relating to the conditions for entry for work purposes for immigrant or third-country nationals, should be approved by this Parliament as soon as possible and with the greatest possible consensus, in order to demonstrate that we are in favour of a single immigration policy.
With regard to the second point, the success of an immigration policy undoubtedly depends on the integration measures which must accompany it.
Therefore, reception and integration must be considered as an essential part of the general immigration policy and this means agreed action, not only on the part of the European Union, but also on the part of national and regional governments, civil society and the immigrants themselves.
I am happy to support the measures of the Danish Presidency with regard to readmission agreements.
I would point out that in one of the Convention's working groups it was said that the negotiation of readmission agreements with third countries has been shown to be more effective when carried out at European level.
I would like to end with a quote from Mr Vitorino, which I have often used: 'immigration is neither a problem nor a solution, it is a phenomenon of a clearly human, social, economic and political nature'.
To sum up, I shall say that the lack of political will on the part of the EU countries leads us to confirm that we still have a great deal of work to do before we achieve the European area of freedom, security and justice which was, in fact, one of the fundamental themes of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
First and foremost, we should welcome the signing of the first bilateral agreement enabling illegal immigrants to return home, which comes three years after the Tampere European Council's initial request.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, is it not absurd that there should be a Council, which appoints a Commission and entrusts it with the drafting of a common asylum and immigration policy, and that the same Council should do everything in its power to frustrate this Commission's proposals?
If they were to act responsibly, they would inevitably end up sharing with us a concern that there should be a common asylum and immigration policy.
The Christian Democratic majority in the European Union has but one objective: integration and the frustration of any reasonable immigration policy.
We believe that it is possible to respect human rights while pursuing a proper policy of combating illegal immigration.
I call upon the Commission and the Council to make every endeavour to remedy the consequences of that tragic act carried out in my country, which can lead to a person being killed in another country.
Mr President, Commissioner, on the eve of 2003, the Greek Presidency has promised to give the very fullest attention to the decisions taken in Amsterdam, Tampere and Seville.
It also means recognising the human rights and fundamental employment and civil rights of immigrants and what they have to offer and can contribute to the development of Europe.
The agreement is based on the first receiving country being responsible for the first year and thereafter the country in which the person concerned has resided for five months, and if the person concerned has not resided in any country for five months then it is the country in which the application for asylum is submitted.
That may sound very easy, but the opposing interests of the various countries are so enormous - depending on where they are situated in Europe - that it has been tremendously difficult to reach agreement.
Now we can answer: something will come of it on 15 January, that is, next month.
It is only natural that reaching agreement on this point is a difficult task, not least because some countries have very high levels of employment whilst others have very low levels of employment.
Mr President, first of all, I shall stress that, in my view, thanks to the commitment of the Danish Presidency and that of the Greek Presidency, the possibility of gaining approval in the near future for the first phase of legislative instruments in the area of asylum is within our grasp.
As far as the contradiction between repressive policies and proactive policies is concerned, I feel that the Commission has strived to present a range of proposals that is balanced in both areas.
Regarding, for example, the policy on return, we have financial instruments for voluntary return, which is the European Refugee Fund.
All Member States, in applying decisions on return, are meant to respect the relevant international instruments on fundamental rights, including the non-refoulement clause.
As far as the relationship between the development policy and the immigration policy is concerned, let us be clear and speak openly and honestly.
It is true that the development policy deals with the profound causes of immigration, but the development policy can only bring about long-term changes in this area.
That is why we must not neglect the need to take short-term measures, for example in the area of managing migratory flows of qualified workers, flows are a genuine scourge for developing world countries which are thus deprived of human resources that are essential for their development.
I hope that we shall have the opportunity to discuss it here at a plenary sitting of the European Parliament.
I would also draw your attention to the fact that, in all the proposals that we have made in the area of asylum and immigration, we have introduced specific rules for the protection of minors and also of women.
The communication relates to the interaction between the policy on managing migration and social policy in general, and the European employment policy in particular.
It will be an important time for clarifying the close relationship between the management of migratory flows and employment policy at European level, as Mr Watson highlighted so clearly.
The decision on the list of visas was taken two years ago.
The decision relating to the re-admission agreement has just been signed today.
The debate is closed.
Three reminders: firstly, the time has been reduced to one hour; secondly, we are running 25 minutes late and thirdly, the representative of the Council must leave the Chamber at 7.10 p.m.
As you will understand, it is beyond my personal capacities to resolve this problem in any other way.
The answer is that the Charter addresses the EU authorities and the national authorities when they administer EU policy.
Whatever may be thought about this language dispute, this case will never become relevant to the EU's Charter of Fundamental Human Rights because the Charter is aimed at the EU and at the Member States when administering EU policy, and as we are aware, the EU has no policy on railway signage.
And this is not only an inter-State objective, but also a European Community objective.
Mr President, that was precisely what I was trying to say.
Bearing in mind that the authorities in Northern Cyprus are dependent on Turkey, what consequences might such measures have for Turkey's application for membership of the European Union?
The Council, which met on 24 and 25 October, was pleased to see the significant steps that Turkey has taken towards meeting the political criteria from Copenhagen.
As part of the accession partnership Turkey has undertaken fully to support the efforts of the UN Secretary-General at finding a solution to the Cyprus problem.
On Friday, it was confirmed that the Council is willing to adapt the accession treaty to these terms, and the European Council expressed its pleasure that the Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots had agreed to continue negotiations with a view to arriving at an overall solution by 28 February 2003.
Specifically, does the Council have any type of mechanism for informing the Turkish Government of these cases, in order to prevent any repetition of these incidents, and in order to demonstrate to them in a practical way what the democratic functioning of the European institutions consists of?
I must tell you that the third question, raised by Baroness Ludford, relates to the debate we have held today, but there is a part which refers to the draft directive on the status of long-term resident third-country nationals.
Question No 3 by Sarah Ludford (H-0728/02): Subject: Integration of third-country nationals Following the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 14-15 October, the Council Conclusions on the integration of third-country nationals were approved.
The issue of the integration of third-country nationals is one of the priorities of the programme of work of the Danish Presidency.
As a follow-up to those conclusions, the Presidency called upon the Member States to establish national contact points for integration by the end of this year, and all the Member States have accepted this.
The relevant bodies of the Council have considered various proposals for Council directives, which the Commission has submitted with a view to implementing the Tampere conclusions in respect of the entry and residence of third-country nationals.
These legislative instruments are aimed at creating a legal framework of rights and obligations at Community level for third-country nationals wishing to enter and reside in the territory of other Member States.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for that reply.
I do not underestimate the importance of the exchange of best practice on national integration policies and I pay tribute to the measures put in place in Denmark under his stewardship.
At the meeting on 26 November, the Presidency concluded that COREPER should continue its work, giving high priority to the issue of finalising an agreement and so paving the way for a political agreement.
The Presidency also concluded, however, that the Council would do its utmost to reach such an agreement in good time before the European Council's spring summit in 2003.
It may sound simple, but it is in fact fiendishly complicated, and when I think of how many debates there have been in my own Parliament in Denmark, I can readily imagine the problem that rotating presidencies will have in getting 15 - and soon, in fact, 25 - parliaments to agree on the same rules.
I wish to thank the Council of Ministers for its answer.
I think it has to be said that this issue is all of a piece and that agreement on one point also requires agreement on the other points, for everything is of course interrelated.
As is well known, it will be the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference that will adopt a final position on the issues raised by the two MEPs.
I also believe that, as matters develop, the Convention will go a very long way towards finding a solution acceptable to all the governments.
I personally feel, as I am sure do all the Members of this Parliament, that an enlarged Europe will be a political Europe, with more democratic institutions and a Constitution, a fairer Europe, with greater internal solidarity, a Europe which takes its place in the world as a power, a force, a Europe of peace and solidarity, a Europe that improves the European Union, contributing to the historic unification of the continent, but not a Union that is institutionally different or new.
I am able to state that Mr Solana has not visited Cyprus since he took office.
He has expressed support for the efforts made by Kofi Annan and, on 12 November, he expressed satisfaction with Kofi Annan's decision willingly to present a proposal for solving the issue of a united Cyprus.
In connection with the Council meeting of 19 November, the ministers debated the Cyprus issue over lunch, once the UN Secretary-General had presented his plan for a solution to the situation.
Subsequently, the Presidency presented a President's statement, warmly endorsing the Secretary-General's plans, and noted that the EU is prepared to respect the conditions of an overall solution in accordance with the principles that form the basis of the EU, and this with a view to arriving at a solution that makes it possible for Cyprus to accede to the EU as a united island.
Last Friday, the European Council meeting welcomed the fact that both Greek and Turkish Cypriots had promised to continue the negotiations with a view to reaching an overall solution on the basis of the UN Secretary-General's proposal before 28 February 2003.
I must just underline that the Cyprus negotiations take place under the auspices of the UN and not under the auspices of the EU.
It was added that multifunctional agriculture will be maintained in all areas of Europe, in accordance with the conclusions of the 1997 Luxembourg European Council and the 1999 Berlin European Council.
To contribute to this process, the Brussels European Council decided that, with a view to enlargement, all commitment appropriations must be added to the structural funds and the Cohesion Fund to the tune of EUR 23 000 million in the period 2004-2006.
The financial consequences of enlargement were reported on in the Presidency's conclusions arising from last Friday's European Council summit in Copenhagen.
Please tell me which agreement or conclusion speaks of equity or redistribution.
The financial framework decided in Berlin is clearly insufficient to deal with the costs of enlargement and the greater economic and social cohesion needs.
Please give me a full answer, as is the Council's responsibility, and tell me who is going to pay this bill between 2006 and 2013.
I am able to reply neither fully nor otherwise, because enlargement will have no consequences for the regions before 2006, and that is precisely of course because a proper amount of time will be needed to adjust this policy to the new situation that will arise following enlargement.
I am also able to refer to paragraph 11 of the President's conclusions stating that EU expenditure must continue to respect both the imperative of budgetary discipline and efficient expenditure and the need to ensure that the enlarged EU has sufficient resources at its disposal to ensure the orderly development of its policies for the benefit of all its citizens.
These arrangements were due to be debated in depth for the first time at Copenhagen on 13 September at the Informal Meeting between EU Justice and Home Affairs ministers with Mr John Ashcroft, US Attorney General.
There is really no secret about the fact that negotiations are being conducted between the EU and the United States on cooperation in criminal matters.
The Council took an open decision to embark upon these negotiations on 20 September 2001 and, following the usual relevant procedure, the Council gave the Presidency a precise negotiating mandate on 25 April of this year.
On 28 November 2002, the Council was informed of how far the negotiations concerning a draft had progressed, and due note was taken of this.
It is awfully nice of the Council to tell us that it will inform us afterwards, but we - the only democratic body in the EU - would like to be consulted as it negotiates whether or not it is currently written in the Treaty.
I would like to wish the President-in-Office a happy Christmas and say thanks to him for being with us over the last six months, because I have a terrible feeling that we will not see him again.
I can assure the honourable Member that, if these contacts with the Americans lead to any sort of legislation or any change in the acquis, all rules will be followed.
Lannoye (H-0749/02): Subject: Weapons used in Afghanistan At the sitting of the European Parliament on 9 April 2002, the President-in-Office of the Council said that no weapons or munitions containing depleted uranium had been used in the military operations in Afghanistan in the autumn of 2001.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your answer is in line with that given by your predecessor from the Spanish Presidency - I asked the question to which he answered no.
This is not, to any degree, an insignificant question because, if it is uranium, whether depleted or otherwise, certain sites in Afghanistan will have inevitably been badly contaminated, sites where not only military personnel are currently based, but also NGOs, humanitarian organisations and, of course, local people.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in a resolution, the European Parliament called for a framework directive on the safety of nuclear material and on the security of nuclear power stations.
The Commission has now drawn up a proposal in the form of a Green Paper.
