The second issue I wish to highlight is fair competition.
The fifth point is better control on the Union's external borders.
In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say a few words in English, so that I can be faithful to the quotation I shall now refer to. (The speaker continued in English) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I very much welcome the positive and supportive reaction of Parliament to the new Animal Health Strategy.
The European Union of today - with its 27 Member States - looks very different to the embryonic Community of many years ago, when our current animal health framework was taking shape.
Trading conditions have changed greatly, with a massive increase in the volume of trade in and imports of animals and animal products.
This will be important in supporting research into animal health and welfare issues.
The Commission would be happy to receive further input from Parliament in this regard, notably in the context of the mid-term budget review of 2009.
Obviously exporting countries have to comply with the same requirements as our European producers, for instance on the identification and prevention of animal diseases.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, the truth of the matter, Commissioner, is that all of us on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development gave a hearty welcome to the new Animal Health Strategy that you submitted to us, as demonstrated by the many contributions to this report.
This is also a controversial issue that requires impact surveys and a solid scientific basis, and I thus wish to reiterate that the amendment is totally at odds with this issue, and my Group will certainly vote against it.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) I should also like to thank the rapporteur for the enthusiasm he has put into his work.
I wonder why the European Union does not have a similar system to the United States, with everyone being asked to state whether or not they are carrying animal products.
The new countries are being phased in and the margin in the agriculture budget is steadily becoming smaller.
I also welcome what the Commissioner has said, and am pleased she is in the Chamber this evening as there is a great deal of common ground between the Commission and Parliament on animal health issues.
It is quite clear that, in a globalised world, bluetongue does not respect borders or our policies or the differences between countries within the European Union, or indeed the EU's external borders.
I would refer the House in particular to paragraph 46 of Parliament's report, which acknowledges that the EU is already a beacon of best practice for the world as regards animal welfare and refers in particular to the WTO negotiations.
I would be grateful for the Commissioner's thoughts on that, but otherwise broadly support this report and her efforts.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, as I take the floor on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group in the debate on the European Union's Animal Health Strategy, I should like to highlight two issues that I consider to be important.
The European Union should insist on this in talks within the WTO framework and when negotiating bilaterally with third countries.
The economic view is still much too dominant and so in my opinion the strategy is too one-sided.
I think that many of them suffer in our countries.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Wojciechowski very much for his report, and to welcome the Commissioner.
I also wish to congratulate Mrs De Lange for the hard work that she has put in as shadow rapporteur.
I also agree with my Scottish colleague that if we are to bring in traceability and look towards an electronic system, then we must ensure that system is up and running, is cost effective and can actually be properly implemented by farmers without huge costs.
In the WTO we should be endeavouring to ensure that third countries too comply with our high standards of animal health and welfare.
This is in the interests of Europe's consumers and producers.
It is therefore especially important that the European Commission's Food and Veterinary Office, the FVO, should conduct an increasing proportion of its on-site inspections in third countries.
I agree with the Commission's strategic ideas and fully support the report.
This is an area which needs tidying up. (PT) Any new animal health strategy must pay particular attention to disease prevention, animal feedstuffs, border controls and animal transport.
All prevention, testing, vaccination and other measures which may allow new outbreaks of animal diseases to be avoided are important in terms of preventing serious damage such as that already suffered due to BSE, foot-and-mouth disease, bluetongue virus and other diseases, because it is food safety and also public health that are at stake.
The issue of biosecurity is very important and farmers must be involved in preventing disease.
And the Commission needs to address this issue urgently.
The lack of authorised medicines poses a real threat to animal health and welfare and the safety of consumers.
These effects include animal health and welfare problems if animals are untreated or treated with unauthorised or an unsuitable product, and zoonotic disease implications from untreated or inappropriately treated animals for animal owners and consumers.
We should certainly take that benefit into account. (PL) Mr President, the proposed European Union Animal Health Strategy contains well-devised plans.
Animal breeders from outside the Union frequently fail to meet the animal welfare standards we impose on European farmers.
The intention is to reflect on proposals during the 2009 budget mid-term review and the Commission will explore the possibility of widening the current veterinary fund and making use of other related funds to finance actions that will have a positive impact on animal health.
There are also financial considerations to take into account.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should again like to offer my sincere thanks to you and to all those who took the floor during the debate on this report.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (DE) I very warmly welcome the initiative of the European Parliament to deliver a detailed opinion on the Commission's Animal Health Strategy for the period from 2007 to 2013.
Another important issue worth emphasising is the impact of undertakings concerned with the slaughter of animals, their transport and also with feed production, because such undertakings have a direct impact on the health and dignified treatment of animals.
A new strategy and policy should be devised, based on the European Union's single legal framework on animal health and incorporating the standards and guidelines laid down by the World Organisation for Animal Health.
The best way to protect against the spread of dangerous diseases amongst animals is to ensure self-sufficiency in animal breeding within the European Union and to limit farm size.
