The role of women in industry (debate) The next item is the report by Ilda Figueiredo, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the role of women in industry.
This report seeks to highlight the role of women in industry.
On average, over 14% of women in employment in the European Union work in industry.
This means that we need different approaches, but with one common goal of promoting the women working in these sectors, guaranteeing non-discriminatory practices in access to employment and contracting, wage equality, creation of career opportunities, vocational training, good working conditions and better pay, and respecting maternity and paternity as fundamental social values.
The need to guarantee employment with rights for women working in industry and to keep facilitating their access to jobs in this important sector of production also requires more attention to be paid to the situation in various industries in the European Union, to the challenges facing them and to the appropriate responses which must be found, including in international trade and in monitoring the situation of imports of sensitive products such as those in the textile sector.
However, the Member States and the Commission have a particular responsibility and an important role to play in promoting equality and fighting all kinds of discrimination, in guaranteeing employment with rights and in combating the precariousness of work which particularly affects women.
We therefore call on them to act, whether by defining high standards for health protection at work that take account of the gender dimension, notably maternity protection, or through working time and organisation that respect family life, or by creating effective inspection mechanisms ensuring respect for employment rights and trade union freedom, or by guaranteeing comprehensive access to good public social security and affordable social services, in particular crèches, nurseries and support for elderly people.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission warmly welcomes the motion for a resolution on the role of women in industry.
As you know, the adoption of the Roadmap for Gender Equality in 2006 underlined the Union's full commitment to do its utmost to make progress towards a situation of real equality between men and women.
The report on women in industry underlines the vital role of work-life balance in order to achieve real gender equality and the Commission shares this analysis.
As I stressed, the issue of women in industry also reflects the general situation of industry in Europe.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, launched in 2007, will provide assistance of up to EUR 500 million per year and its rules provide specifically for gender equality to be taken into account.
The Commission is, therefore, responding to all the challenges identified by the report on the role of women in industry by taking measures of various kinds: improving equality, working conditions and the role of women in industry, combating stereotypes, creating better conditions for reconciling work and family life and providing general support for companies and workers in industrial sectors in difficulty.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SK) I would like to say thank you for the work that has been done on this report by Mrs Figueiredo.
Despite the fact that the report is more or less a summary of problems that are reasonably well known, it points at the fact that changes in these areas are slow, as can be seen, for example, in the development of differences between the salaries of men and women.
I would begin by pointing out that we have already presented a large number of reports on this subject.
We also call on companies to apply family and women-friendly policies in their workforce management plans, which will work to everyone's advantage: when everyone has that feel-good feeling, business runs better and this also benefits the women who work in it.
One such piece of evidence is the fact that the European Union average in terms of women employed in industry is a mere 14%.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the statistics tell us that across the European Union there are more men than women in employment in every age group.
This can be due to personal choice or to tradition, but is often the result of discrimination in the workplace.
In addition, on average women earn less than men in every Member State of the European Union.
It is difficult to imagine more men than women being employed in the embroidery industry or more women than men being employed in the smelting industry.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Ilda Figueiredo, for her work and our shadow rapporteur, Edit Bauer, through whom we were able to enrich the report by way of our opinions.
Lisbon stands for growth in employment rates, significant increase in the employment of women, demand for the provision of proper conditions for the employment of female employees, and wide-ranging support for equal opportunities - over and above the positive role of women in the economy.
It is important that we have the right information about actual work relations in the many, essentially different sectors of industry and the differences between the sectors themselves.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteurs and those who have been working on this report on the excellent mapping of the current statistics and the current situation in Europe when it comes to women in industry.
As a Pole, a woman, and a physicist by training, I can state that in my country the average level of education of women is higher than that of men.
Employers must learn not to put women in unsuitable jobs or jobs where their abilities are not sufficiently valued.
Nothing can justify, for the sake of future careers, future mothers being exposed to health risks that can have a negative influence on motherhood.
The role of women in industry ought to be based on the principles of equal pay and equal involvement in decision-making.
What we and the Commission should remember, and most importantly what we should remind Member States of, is that citizens, especially women, do not judge our efficiency by the number of decisions we pass, but by our ability and will to enforce them.
In 2006, women made up 33% of the total number of European researchers and only 18% of researchers operating in the private sector.
We cannot therefore allow this situation to continue for a further 30 years and that is why I call on the Commission, and also the Member States, to take concrete measures.
We must also fight stereotyping, as highlighted here today, and we must ensure that the organisation of working hours, working time and jobs better responds to women's rights, and also to the right to maternity and paternity which are recognised as fundamental social values of the European Union.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing - (HU) I welcome this important report and would stress that women in particular suffer from occupational illnesses.
One new study mentions that in the EU 140 000 people, three and a half percent in this context, die every year as a result of occupational illness, and one of the main causes is chemicals.
And chemicals are implicated in 86% of cancer-related occupational illnesses.
in writing. - (FR) Although the report on the role of women in industry rightly emphasises the many difficulties facing women in the labour market and certain economic sectors, the proposals in the text raise two questions.
Secondly, the report contains one proposal that is, to say the least, curious indeed: suggesting that a quota of women on boards of private companies ought to be established by law points to a serious attack on individual liberties and does women little service.
Moreover, women are not adequately represented in social dialogue.
The Member States should significantly increase the emphasis on gender equality in social dialogue.
Simultaneously, many Member States should strengthen the role which social dialogue has in setting the policy.
