Common organisation of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products as regards the national quotas for milk (debate) The next item is the report by Elisabeth Jeggle, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single CMO Regulation) as regards the national quotas for milk - C6-0015/2008 -.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Let me first say that the Presidency welcomes the report by Mrs Jeggle on the proposal to increase the milk quota and is of the opinion that it is a constructive and balanced contribution to the debate that has been running for more than a few weeks now.
Based on the favourable market conditions, the European Commission has proposed in its report, or analysis, a 2% increase in national milk quotas starting with the next quota year, that is to say on 1 April 2008.
I would like to add here that the Council supports Parliament in the suggestion that the Commission prepare a general, long-term strategy, that is to say a proposal for a strategy, for the European dairy sector.
However, we think that the Commission's proposal for a 2% increase in the quota for the next quota year should be treated as part of a package and that the other parts should be appropriately debated within the common agricultural policy health check.
In our opinion it is a balanced and well-founded observation.
In December 2007 the Commission presented a market outlook report that showed that there clearly is, and will be in the future, a growing demand for dairy products.
Your report also confirms that we should increase the possibilities for producing more milk.
I think everybody would agree that the Commission's proposal is fairly prudent and clear, with a predictable and equal outcome for all the Member States.
I think we would also agree that dairy farmers need predictability - certainty about their production possibilities within the quota system - and I do not think that a voluntary system would contribute to this.
The most important thing is that it will benefit those producers who have already exceeded their quotas - those who have produced too much - and not those who have tried to keep within the limits of the quota system.
I fear that implementing rules in this area would be extremely complex, and I am not in favour of making our system more complicated in a situation where there are only seven years left of the lifetime of this quota system.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as already stated, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has unanimously rejected the Commission's proposal to increase the quotas for the coming milk year by 2%.
Based on the rulings of 2003, there will be a 0.5% increase in quotas for 11 Member States anyway on 1 April this year - the equivalent of 700 000 tonnes more milk in the European Union.
For Member States with greater potential, there is also the opportunity to use this European quota framework along the lines of a common European internal market system.
Commissioner, you always stress that the existing milk quota will expire in this system in 2015.
In particular this instrument should be used for dairy farmers in disadvantaged areas and in areas completely given over to grazing land and pasture.
I would therefore ask you, Commissioner, to include this request by the European Parliament in tangible terms in your legislative health check proposal.
In our view the application of Article 69 is insufficient because it is not clearly defined in terms of practical measures, particularly for the sector already mentioned.
I have been in agreement with this proposal and I have tried to work alongside the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, precisely because it is clear that there was some reticence and that there were some members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development who did not think that this proposal from the Commission should be supported.
Just consider that in my country, Spain, the production allocated to us is 6.1 million tonnes and our theoretical consumption is 9 million tonnes.
Increasing production by at least 2% and reassessing at a later stage whether further quota increases are needed will support and maintain strong, forward-looking milk production in Europe and create a smooth transition to the abolition of the quota system, which was introduced in 1983 - incidentally as a transitional arrangement - owing to the development of whole milk powder and butter mountains.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I shall be no exception in congratulating our rapporteur on a solid piece of work, which I think is best viewed as part of a wider picture of how we ensure long-term stability for Europe's farmers and growers.
We would, however, like to see a system of production controls, and we disagree with the point in the report that there should be a voluntary opt-in mechanism for the Member States.
But, on the whole, this is a solid piece of work and we are happy to broadly support it. (BG) The condition of dairy production in Bulgaria is an example that there is something wrong in the economic system of the European Union.
The increase of the quotas is of little relevance since 30 % of the cows in Bulgaria have died of starvation for the first year of the EU membership alone.
Let us see how the market develops over the next 12 months.
It is a word that we use - the President-in-Office has used it and the Commissioner has used it - but what are we really talking about here when we hit 2013?
I know that it is a long way away, but there are many dairy farmers out there at the moment who are really wondering what the situation is going to be as we lead into that time?
But we have also got to understand that, coming into the next 12 months, the cost of cereals, the cost of fertiliser, the high cost of energy, the forage cost this summer, is going to mean that lots of the extra money that has gone to the dairy sector will in actual fact be absorbed in these extra costs.
The milk and dairy farming sector, regardless of where you are in Europe, is the backbone of the small family farm structure, and we must support it. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner Fischer Boel, the 2% milk quota increase proposed in the report affects numerous Member States.
Hungary is not affected by this, since it uses only 70% of its milk quota allocation, but we are nevertheless in solidarity with Member States such as Poland and others which need to increase their milk quota.
A particular problem in some countries is the lag in technical and technological development.
Thank you for your attention. (DA) Mr President, as the Commissioner knows, the general debate in Denmark is very unfavourable towards agricultural subsidies.
The market must be liberalised properly, and this should be the main objective of the reform.
There is still a long way to go before we can take pride in the EU's agricultural policy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, I should also like to thank Elisabeth Jeggle for having worked so ably on the report.
The present quota system has been agreed up to 2015.
Over the last few months our dairy farmers have been obtaining a fair milk price for the first time in many years.
This is not directed against Elisabeth Jeggle, but against the increase in quotas. (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Member Mrs Jeggle for the enormous amount of work she has spent on drawing up this report.
On the other hand a 2% increase in quotas does not necessarily imply the same increase in milk production in all regions.
Consequently in all those countries that wish to produce it we should increase the quota by 5% rather than 2%, particularly in view of the fact that there will be an increase in the number of customers worldwide and, especially in Asia, an increase in demand for excellent European dairy products. (DE) Mr President, opinions are divided on milk quotas.
We have also seen this within our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which has nevertheless accepted a unanimously agreed compromise.
Some are fully able to accept an increase in quotas of 2% or more and therefore a soft landing prior to the total abolition of quotas.
They want growth opportunities through better use of their production potential, because the market opportunities in the EU and on the world market as a result of constantly rising demand are very attractive.
For this reason, I stress that within the scope of their discussions the Commission and the Council must re-examine the question of fat content, in order to prevent distortion of competition at the expense of countries for which a low fat content has been stipulated. (RO) First, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work and efforts made in finding a compromise in this extremely delicate matter.
If this proposal had not been accepted, the quota assigned to Romania would have run out, like in 2007, in mid-year, which in fact does not stimulate but rather completely discourages the development projects of our farmers.
I hope that the vote in plenary session for this report be as firm as the vote in the Committee on Agriculture. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
Increasing the milk quotas in the current market climate is rash and risky for two reasons.
The prime reason for all this may be that, while prices of other foods have risen, meat prices have not so far followed suit, with the result that consumers are meeting their protein requirements by consuming meat rather than increasingly expensive dairy products.
If the price rise and increase in demand persist in the long term, then we should revisit this issue. (SK) The figures for the 2006/07 quota year show an under-usage of 1.9 million tonnes of milk at EU level, with 18 out of 27 Member States producing below their national quotas.
The European Commission is expecting for the 2007/08 quota year an under-usage of 3 million tonnes of milk.
Dairy farmers are therefore demanding a volume-based market policy.
Secondly, in terms of the much talked-of soft landing, we need to have particular regard for those regions which have built their structure and their strategy supplying other regions which are currently limited in their production - regions such as my own constituency, which supplies across the border to the Republic of Ireland.
I am quite clear what a soft landing means, and that is to increase quotas significantly before we get to 2015, so I very much welcome this 2%.
We need a special programme here. (NL) I shall skip the words of thanks and move on to saying that I welcome the proposal to increase the quota by 2%.
To the European Commission I would say that this is not before time, as we were overtaken on the world market by New Zealand back in 2006.
If the conditions for adoption of this proposal are satisfied, taking into account the opinion of the European Parliament, this 2% increase will be used as from the next quota year, that is to say from 1 April 2008.
However, I would like to emphasise that this will not end the debate on the future of the dairy sector in the European Union.
I can guarantee here that the Presidency is firm in its decision to lead this debate and to reach our common goal, that is to say - and this has my assurance - a balanced long-term strategy for the European dairy sector.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think that, after the discussion here today, we can all agree that dairy production is still a very important part of our common agricultural policy.
On this increase in quota, it is voluntary for Member States either to distribute it to the producers or to keep it in the national reserve.
I think that, if we want to introduce an increase as from 1 April, we need to do so with a fixed percentage in all Member States.
I think there are so many unanswered questions concerning this fund, and we have limited money.
We see a great deal in this European Union and on this market today.
However, we have an internal market here and this internal market helps us to be strong, even in the face of globalisation and general liberalisation.
The European agricultural model represents sustainability and consumer safety - and that still applies!
In the EP, I represent Romania, a new Member State which was confronted even from the first year of accession with a crisis in the milk quota, which quota was insufficient to satisfy market demand and inconsistent with current realities.
The milk sector in Romania recorded major progress from the negotiation of the milk quota in 2004 to accession, through investments in modern technology, extension of production capacities and employment of new personnel.
The health check is an important process for reforming agricultural policy, particularly agricultural policy in mountainous regions.
The work of farmers is being made more difficult owing to reduced accessibility and steep transport routes and these must be included in the discussions.
