Aid for Pakistan and possible implication for the European industrial sector (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on aid for Pakistan and possible implication for the European industrial sector.
The European Council on 16 September called for a comprehensive package of short-, medium- and longer-term measures that will help underpin Pakistan's recovery and future development.
Our common contribution to the humanitarian aid efforts presently stands at more than EUR 320 million from Member States and the European Commission in cash and in kind.
The European Council recognised that, in addition to the immediate and significant humanitarian aid and development assistance, ambitious trade measures are essential for economic recovery and growth.
To this end, the Commission adopted on 7 October a proposal for unilateral suspension of import duties on a number of important export items from Pakistan.
The Commission is proposing to liberalise 75 tariff lines on imports from Pakistan, accounting for 27% of Pakistan's current imports to the EU and almost EUR 900 million.
This would yield an increase in EU imports from Pakistan of about EUR 100 million.
Trade can be an important part of a long-term economic solution for Pakistan.
Madam President, I must say that I fully understand what they are going through in Pakistan, but I would also say that this decision is tragic for Europe and, particularly, for some countries that are already experiencing serious difficulties, such as Portugal, Spain and Greece.
For example, the textiles and clothing industry represents 11% of Portugal's total exports, 22% of the manufacturing industry; 80% of production for some products even takes place in Portugal.
We are all very well aware of the floods, the combined impact of which is worse than the Asian tsunami of 2004 and the Haitian floods of earlier this year.
Firstly, as the Commissioner has said, the 75 tariff lines that would help boost Pakistan's trade by an estimated EUR 100 million a year do little harm to EU investment.
This will not significantly damage any European Union industry and, equally importantly - in fact, quite possibly even more importantly - it will not harm the developing countries which are on a par with Pakistan, because none of the tariff lines affect products on the DDA preference erosion list.
I welcome that because it still gives an incentive to Pakistan to come into line with social and human rights standards between now and 2014 in order to qualify for GSP+ in 2014.
The fact that all 74 of the tariff lines involved relate to the textile and clothing sector is almost inevitable for a country that can export only products within this sector.
Since we believe that it cannot be just the European textiles sector that pays for our rightful humanitarian solidarity with Pakistan, we ask for three things to be done: 1) To set up regulatory instruments to avoid all possible triangulation with other countries that could profit from the duties from which Pakistan is benefiting; 2) Not to aggravate the crisis in the European textile sector, by implementing measures that could instead support it, such as a reduction in the cost of electricity; and 3) To avoid creating a precedent for other countries that suffer such natural disasters.
That is what is absolutely intolerable about the proposal that the Commission is making.
Pakistan is not only a developing country with 170 million inhabitants and strategic borders with Afghanistan; it is also a country which has some thirty nuclear warheads.
Trade preferences for Pakistan at this time may perhaps help stop that happening. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should all recall, once again, how dramatic the situation was in Pakistan a couple of weeks ago and indeed still is in many places.
I am also prepared to explain to the citizens of the European Union, and to those of my electoral district, that we have to do something and that aid for others always has to be paid for by someone.
I believe there is a lot of work to be done by all those involved in connection with convincing people and providing information. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have to be mindful of the crisis that the European Union and its Member States are experiencing on a global level.
The Commission proposal under discussion today will heavily penalise some industrial sectors, particularly textiles and, in a situation like the present one, we must ask ourselves whether it is reasonable.
Certainly, when I met with the Prime Minister of Pakistan on 22 September, he was very appreciative of the EU's response to date and he believed it to be a very courageous response; courageous in the way that Commissioner De Gucht has described it.
The Commission has now come forward with a legislative proposal to cut the tariff to zero on 75 tariff lines covering 27% of Pakistan's exports to the EU, which would boost Pakistan's exports by about EUR 100 million a year.
The trade concession to be offered to Pakistan needs to represent a credible effort by the EU and bring about meaningful economic benefits to Pakistan, whilst taking into account sensitivities of our own industries as well as other WTO members - in particular, those of least-developed countries.
The regulation proposed by the Commission concentrates, above all, on the suspension of duties in the textile and leather goods sectors - which represent 60% of Pakistani exports with a turnover of almost EUR 200 million for textiles and EUR 510 million for the leather industry, both of which are characterised by production located in neighbouring areas that are not clearly affected by the floods.
Pakistan must be helped, but through clear agreements, including those with regard to the political situation in the region. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, the floods in July and August of this year caused 1 800 deaths in Pakistan and affected 20 million people, 12.5 million of whom need humanitarian aid.
The European Union has undertaken a humanitarian effort of EUR 320 million - as you said - and Spain has contributed EUR 11 million.
There is probably no better opportunity to stand up for both free trade and solidarity than in connection with this proposal. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by means of this short speech, I should like to show my disagreement with the possible suspension of duties in favour of Pakistan for some three years and across 74 tariff lines, almost all of them in the textile and clothing sector.
Secondly, I would also like to say that, if this aid helps people to help themselves, obviously you do have to take into account what effect all of this has back in Europe.
Trade concessions are not long-term measures, as I have been saying.
However, it damages the textile industry, as well as the countries and regions that are most dependent on it; all this in a context of profound crisis and high unemployment.
While it is true that the measures proposed by the Commission cannot, under any circumstances, be a pretext for more redundancies, we cannot ignore the objective difficulties that these measures are creating.
Pakistan must be helped, but we cannot adopt soft trading measures when my country - Italy - and other Member States are already feeling the effects of counterfeiting of textile products, especially from Asian countries and from China in particular.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all, I would like to present very clearly the figures we are speaking about.
We are talking about a trade volume of EUR 900 million.
So, the overall impact will be about EUR 50 million on a yearly basis.
Now you all have a calculator tool on your mobile phone; if Europe is to lose 120 000 jobs because of an additional EUR 50 million of imports on the European market, then there is really a serious problem with the European textile industry, regardless of what happens with Pakistan.
What I have in mind is that once we have this agreement, once we see that we are really getting somewhere, we should also ask Pakistan to make sure that our own textile industry gets enough cotton to be able to produce what the market is asking for.
It is true that we should also bear in mind, as I have been saying in this plenary, that we are talking about a region that has been severely devastated.
That is what we are talking about, so I think we should help them, but we should also bear in mind that this is a very sensitive region which is geo-strategically very important.
