This week, we have seen two such attacks, which have killed and injured more people than, for example, the London bombings.
The European Union and Member States are maintaining contacts with Pakistan in many ways.
First of all, I should like to say to the defenders of tolerance in Pakistan and to the defenders of religious freedom in Pakistan that they are not alone.
It is therefore vital that the Pakistani Government ensures that the extremists do not take charge of public discourse and, for our part, that we maintain our solidarity with the defenders of tolerance in the country.
Paragraph 19 about the institutions and the government of Pakistan is also important, as is the call for recognition of democracy and human rights.
The Baloch minority continues to be persecuted and, according to Amnesty International, at least 90 Baloch activists - teachers, journalists and lawyers - have disappeared or have been murdered.
The European Parliament and the EU need to send a clear message to Pakistan and urge the Pakistani Government to do its best to avoid this kind of situation.
The European Union must therefore use all the necessary instruments at its disposal to strengthen judicial cooperation with Pakistan.
Shahbaz Bhatti knew he was in danger, both as a Christian in a country where religious intolerance is rife, and as Minister for Minorities who fearlessly denounced his country's draconian blasphemy laws.
Once again, I vigorously call on all the competent institutions of the European Union to include in negotiations, with a view to preparing future cooperation agreements, including the cooperation agreement between the Union and Pakistan, a clause ensuring respect for religious freedom and human rights. (Applause) (PL) Mr President, once again, we are talking about the question of human rights violations in Pakistan, this time because of the recent murder of government minister Shahbaz Bhatti, who opposed the country's blasphemy legislation and defended the rights of religious minorities.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, in January, we deplored the murder of the Governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer.
A few weeks later, these acts of violence continued with the assassination on 2 March 2011 of Mr Shahbaz Bhatti, the Minister for Minorities in the government of Pakistan.
Vice-President Ashton has called on the government of Pakistan to take its responsibilities and provide adequate protection for those in official functions or in civil society who are threatened.
This brutal incident, the victim of which was a high-ranking state official fighting for equal rights for minorities in Pakistan, is further evidence of how difficult the situation is in that country.
Pakistan is sinking into chaos - the Taliban are terrorising the country and with increasing frequency are carrying out attacks like the one which took place in Punjab on 8 March, for example, in which 25 people were killed.
