Nevertheless we should start our discussion, not knowing yet why they have not arrived.
The discharge has something to say to the Secretary-General about Parliament, so we would be extremely happy if he were with us today as well.
I would like to repeat that, in my opinion, it is rather difficult to conduct a debate in the absence of those to whom we are supposed to grant discharge, with whom we want to discuss the reasons why we are granting discharge or are postponing discharge or whatever else we have to talk to them about.
We also know our respective positions.
It is fine that we will exchange them once again this morning, but it is not really helpful.
Therefore, I call on the House to reject the attempt by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) to use amendments to turn the position of the European Parliament on Turkey's accession process on its head, as recorded in the resolution on the progress report.
In the coming months, we must discuss the current management of EU funds in this area with the Commission and how these funds will be managed in future by the European External Action Service.
We are also pleased that in this financial year, the statement of assurance has been positive, except for the method of estimating the provision for the Commission's costs.
Then there are no material errors in the underlying transactions, although we are still finding - and therefore need to improve - a high incidence of non-quantifiable errors in both budget-support commitments and payments.
We need a definitive method and an ad hoc calendar to ensure that information and documentation on this joint financing is not undermined by this lack of transparency.
I was responsible for carrying out this exercise in respect of the European Parliament for the 2008 financial year.
We have managed to use 100% green electricity.
We have succeeded in cutting CO2 emissions by 17%.
The appointment of a risk manager within the administration on 24 February is to be warmly welcomed.
I would invite that person to approach the competent committees and join us in discussing ways of reducing the risks of misappropriation in this House.
In my report, I have endeavoured to hand the Secretary-General and Parliament's senior administration a number of means of protection against certain criticisms.
I propose ensuring that no public taxes are used for the voluntary pension fund, with its actuarial deficit of EUR 121 million.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has endorsed my proposal to postpone a decision on granting the Council's Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2008.
For this reason, and with the support of the coordinators of all the political groups, I have decided to postpone the decision on discharge.
We have had contact with the head of cabinet of the President of the Court of Auditors, and we also checked our last debates at the European Parliament in 2008 and 2009.
They were, of course, informed about our meeting, but were not present over the last two years.
I know this because I came from Azerbaijan, through Baku and Madrid and then by road.
In the period 2000-2010, we have seen a 610% increase in EU contributions to the decentralised agencies.
The contributions have increased from EUR 95 to 579 million, even though the staff numbers of those agencies increased by around 271%.
In 2000, the agencies employed 1 219 people, whereas, today, they employ 4 794.
Nonetheless, in the period 2000-2010, the European Union has had to face many challenges.
Firstly, two enlargements, in 2004 and 2007, with 12 new Member States, and other challenges such as employment and vocational training, immigration, the environment, air safety and many others still.
Similarly, the Member States must cooperate closely on these issues, and the agencies are a powerful vehicle for these exchanges.
The scope of the tasks entrusted to the agencies and the increase in their number, size and budgets does, however, require the institutions to fulfil their own budgetary authority responsibilities.
With regard to the 2008 discharge, I would point out here what are, unfortunately, recurring problems facing many agencies: the weaknesses in procurement procedures; the unrealistic recruitment planning and the lack of transparency in the procedures for selecting their personnel; the large volume of carryovers and cancellations of operational appropriations; and the weaknesses in the scheduling of activities, with a lack of specific objectives.
The situation is different for the European Police College (CEPOL).
Although one may note some improvements in the management of CEPOL when compared with the situation in 2007, the audits carried out reveal some blatant irregularities in the application of the administrative and financial rules.
The 2008 discharge procedure is now reaching its end.
It was an intensive period but, most importantly, the start of a new constructive dialogue between our institutions.
I believe this has been clearly demonstrated in our recent efforts.
I hope as well that, when the colegislator has agreed on a tolerable risk of error, the Court of Auditors will consider this new concept in the way it finds appropriate.
The Commission will do its utmost, together with the other actors involved, to accelerate the reduction of error rates so as to ensure that a further 20% of the budget can be given a green classification by the European Court of Auditors in 2014.
Your considerations expressed in the 2008 discharge resolution will be duly taken into account.
The Court of Auditors established some inaccuracies and considers the Commission's supervision and control system for external aid, development aid and pre-accession aid only partially effective.
It is much more about handling the EU's external aid carefully, promptly and as effectively as possible, as well as about detailed documentation and accountability, since it is annoying when projects are not completed on time or there is a lack of clarity about their outcome.
The fact that the Court of Auditors has established that error rates are in decline is therefore praise for the work of the previous Commission in external aid, in development cooperation and in enlargement policy.
The special report on pre-accession aid for Turkey provides the first references to improved control of the use of funds that has become possible since 2007 through the new Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance.
Future accounts reports and reviews must indicate how responsibly and successfully recipients handle EU aid.
We must be able to adapt our foreign policy flexibly, so that we can defend our external policy interests effectively.
We therefore call on the Commission to proceed with the improvement of financial regulation, the new financial framework, budget reform and, above all, with the development of the European External Action Service.
All in all, I can, however, recommend discharge for the financial year 2008 for the area of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
We are dealing with the fact that neither this House nor the other institutions are taking discharge seriously in any form.
The only institution that has to take it seriously is the Commission.
If we take what is happening here as a fundamental parliamentary right as a basis for discharge, then I can only warn you not to put the proposal currently on the table into action, namely to transform the European External Action Service into another institution, because that would herald the end of our influence, because it is so easy to escape this influence.
The only other institution that is represented is Parliament.
We saw a rather substantial under-execution with regard to Solvit in 2008, but this will correct itself in 2009 and 2010.
I understand that budgets have to be spent responsibly, but I see now that the provision of information in this field is still insufficient.
Finally, as several of my fellow Members and the Commissioner himself have already remarked, the budgetary rules are still very complicated on a number of points, which also means that the associated control mechanisms are very complicated.
I would also like to know whether last year - although Mrs Gräßle has said that the Swedish Presidency was present here - the Council was at the discharge debate.
I should like first to welcome the Council and to thank the Minister for joining us.
There are quite a few misconceptions in circulation concerning the process of evaluating cohesion policy, including in this House.
It is difficult to judge, therefore, how successful we were in 2008 in meeting the targets of the new cycle.
Everyone bears part of the responsibility for the delays in using up the funds.
The recommendations made by the Commission and Parliament in the interest of simplification, which we made since 2008 in response to the crisis, have all served the purpose of making improvements on our part.
I would like to call to mind that according to Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, promoting the equality of men and women is one of the fundamental values of the European Union, one which every EU action must respect and that should, therefore, also be capable of being monitored in the discharge procedure for the implementation of the EU budget.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, from a development perspective, the importance of budgetary discharge is in assuring taxpayers across Europe that the money is being spent efficiently and effectively in the developing world, in terms of aid effectiveness, as well as matching our 0.7% target for ODA contributions.
Mr President, to begin with, I want to thank the Council, and I appreciate the fact that the Council is present, because the question is whether the Council really wants to take responsibility for spending taxpayers' money, and whether the Council wants to show some respect for Parliament and for cooperation.
Therefore, it is important that the Council is present.
I do not understand why our lives need to be so inconvenient, when we know that the journey from here to my home town of Turku in Finland takes a day, and it takes another day to come back from there if I want to go to Brussels to do some work there.
Now, when we are voting on the discharge, we, elected MEPs, assume full legal responsibility for the 2008 budget.
At the same time, we must also be clear that the oversight we exercise is not in itself sufficient to guarantee that funds have been spent intelligently and in compliance with the rules.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats performs its work in full awareness of this responsibility.
If the other political groups wish to improve their own activities, let them do so.
Europe is subject to intense pressure of all kinds, such as pressure on the euro and the pressure of the conflict between EU and national perspectives.
I would also call on the Member States to establish transparency in their expenditure of European funds at long last by giving a public account of this expenditure on an annual basis.
Fair is fair, however, and greater transparency is also needed in our own Parliament.
I should like to ask the Council, now it is here, whether it can give its response to this, and whether it agrees that it is possible for the two institutions to monitor each other effectively without a gentlemen's agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr López Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking on behalf of my group and not as rapporteur for Parliament's discharge.
This is a question to both the Commissioner and the Council, and relates to the fact that 80% of our funds are actually spent in the Member States, and that Parliament has been advocating national management declarations for many years.
We have a new treaty, and the new wording of Article 317(2) of this treaty enables the Commission to produce proposals for introducing mandatory national management declarations as soon as possible.
This national minister simply needs to come to an agreement with his regional ministers, await their regional policy statements and management declarations and then present them all to this House and to the public.
It is also clear that, while responsibility ultimately rests with the European Commission, it is the Member States and the Council - in particular the Council - who need to be far more conscientious in their application of European funding and who need to demonstrate far greater urgency in their efforts to achieve a positive statement of assurance.
Mr President, this debate is about us, as EU parliamentarians, taking responsibility not only collectively, but also individually, for how the EU's funds were used in 2008.
In some areas, there has even been some progress compared with 2007.
The question we must ask ourselves is as follows: would we approve the accounts of a sports club, a trade union or a political party where 11% of the expenditure in a central area had been paid out in contravention of the rules?
In April last year, Parliament refused to discharge the Council's accounts for 2007 by a large majority.
It is shared by many of our fellow Members in other political groups.
Precisely because our criticism is so clear, however, we also have a duty to be critical of ourselves as regards our own - Parliament's - financial administration.
I therefore find it regrettable that the report by the Committee on Budgetary Control ended up being less critical than it had been in the Chair's original version.
I hope that at the vote in May, there will be broad support for the fact that our willingness to take a critical view of ourselves is precisely what gives our criticism and demands of the Council and Commission added strength and authority.
Finally, I would simply like to thank all my fellow members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, who this year have once again worked towards greater transparency and responsibility in the way the EU looks after its citizens' money.
The situation has been the same for the last 15 years, and this Parliament has always granted discharge, on the basis of the improvement in the use of European Union funds.
Colleagues, I call upon all of you to exercise your responsibility with due care and withhold discharge to the Commission, to Parliament, to the Council, to the European Development Fund and to the Court of Auditors, that does not publish the declaration of financial interests, until all of these institutions give proof of sound financial management.
For that reason, I would like to propose eleven approaches to a solution.
The Treaty of Lisbon has also failed to create this base. 2) An immediate freeze, until an independent analysis has established the added value of this decentralisation once and for all. 3) The closing of seven agencies and the merging of the administrative tasks of individual agencies. 4) In future, every agency must be the direct responsibility of a single EU Commissioner and, above all, the EU Commissioner for interinstitutional relations and administration should be responsible for horizontal issues. 5) A reduction in the members of the administrative board.
The number of full members should not exceed 10% of the positions or a total number of 20. 6) There needs to be a catalogue of location criteria that must be taken into account when determining the location of agencies - as we have already heard in Mrs Haug's speech, this is urgently needed. 7) EU agencies should be freed from EU Staff Regulations. 8) All agency directors should be elected for a fixed period of time at the proposal of the Commission and only after consulting and after receiving the approval of the European Parliament. 9) A clear performance agreement between the Commission and the agencies with clearly defined quantitative criteria that are summarised by the EU Court of Auditors in an annual performance ranking. 10) All agencies should transfer financial data to a database.
Mr Geier, Mrs Gräßle, it is time that you also allowed this solution here in the House.
I believe that the Council budget for the 2008 financial year was correctly implemented, as can be deduced from the annual report of the Court of Auditors.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Council is today the only institution to have published a preliminary report on its 2009 accounts for the general public to see.
Similarly, a few days ago, on 15 March to be precise, the Chair of Coreper and the Secretary-General of the Council met with a delegation from Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
At that meeting, they gave all the information requested on the topics and issues put forward by Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control relating to implementation of the Council's budget for 2008.
If Parliament wished to review that agreement, the Council would be willing to consider it and discuss a new agreement based on reciprocity between the two institutions.
There is therefore no problem in discussing that situation and perhaps reaching a new agreement that, if possible, improves on the one we have had until now.
That is what the Council would like to point out with regard to the debate held this morning.
I have been a Member of this House for a while and I have noticed that in cases like yours, when the Council is represented here - even when it is not really necessary - it contributes greatly to the success of a Presidency.
In this respect, I should like to thank you again very much. (FR) Mr President, Mr Šemeta, Mr López Garrido, thank you once again for joining us.
Therefore, Mr Ashworth, perhaps the Conservatives will vote in favour of the annual accounts at least.
The Court has issued some opinions - five paragraphs - to us, but we do not know.
It is in this context that we must come together to review all these discharge procedures on the cost of control.
I also propose shortening the deadlines.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by proposing an interinstitutional conference with the Commission, the Council, all the national parliaments, which control the executives, and the national audit bodies, in order to develop our discharge procedure in very technical areas and to make matters much clearer than they are today. (DE) Mr President, representatives of the Commission and, above all, the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we hear this every year in the debate on improvements in the implementation of the distribution of European funds: more accurate and more efficient control of expenditure in all bodies and institutions, more transparency for Parliament and also for citizens.
Thank you very much, Mrs Weiler.
Between 2008 and 2009, the European Union paid NGOs over EUR 300 million in funds.
These include honourable organisations like the Deutsche Welthungerhilfe.
With regard to the gentlemen's agreement I would like to thank Mr López Garrido.
We shall refuse to grant discharge until such time as the Court of Auditors gives a positive statement of assurance.
My party will look particularly carefully at how Labour and Liberal Democrat MEPs decide to vote on this issue.
Anyone who is serious about reforming this system and about protecting the taxpayer should vote against granting discharge. (NL) Mr President, given the high error rates, I do not approve of granting discharge to the European Commission.
On pre-accession aid for Turkey I would like to say that I was surprised that the completely normal criticism which, in other countries, would have long since led to the blocking and withholding of financing, has led so quickly to a hiccup in the cooperation between Turkey and the Commission.
For this reason, I personally consider it necessary that at least part of the funding is withheld until it we have suitable assurances that the funds will be properly spent.
Some of us have come under more than a little pressure in our home countries regarding this.
There are many good proposals in this report that were, however, all adopted.
Then there are proposals in this report that only represent a partial reality, as, for example, in Amendment 26 now on the table.
This amendment demands the establishing of an internal control system in groups of this House.
I believe EU citizens are happy to go along with this, but the money must be used in the best possible way.
We here in Parliament have a particular responsibility in this respect.
I believe this is what the taxpayers of Europe would expect of us. (NL) Mr President, the Staes report contains a very important paragraph entitled 'Members as public persons'.
Indeed, all of us here handle taxpayers' money, and so citizens have a right to know how we are spending that money.
I refer in particular to the maximum of EUR 4 200 per month at the disposal of each Member for general expenditure.
Therefore, I would urge you to support Amendment 33 to paragraph 65 on this subject. (PL) The European Personnel Selection Office, or EPSO, is an interinstitutional unit responsible for selection of staff for the European Union institutions.
Particularly unacceptable is the continued under representation of citizens of the new Member States, including Poland, and not only in the European Union's civil service.
Allow me, first of all, to pass on the apologies of my colleague, Georgios Stavrakakis, who was unable to come to the debate on this matter, even though he worked on the report during the last few months as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
I wish to point out that the auditing of budget agencies is an extremely complicated and arduous procedure as there is significant variation among them in terms of their practices and competence.
Even though concessions have been made for a few years, producing a result somewhat more slowly than expected, I support this year the postponement of discharge in respect of the implementation of this agency's 2008 budget until a new audit has been carried out and the College's new management assumes clear responsibility for ensuring that the irregularities and legal inconsistencies are eliminated in the shortest time possible.
If we make exceptions with Turkey, we can also cease work with budgetary control for Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria or Greece.
I would therefore like to thank Mr Staes for such a constructive piece of work.
I think we need to do more to allow our citizens to follow our work.
We can ensure this by giving citizens easier access to our reports on the website - including those reports that are critical.
Furthermore, though it has often been said before, I do not, of course, think we should spend money on renovating our office facilities here in Strasbourg.
It also puts us in a better position to criticise the other institutions. (NL) Mr President, a great deal has already been said in this debate, and so I should like to confine myself to two points.
Mr Staes has presented a report on this that I would have endorsed wholeheartedly six or seven years ago, but in those six or seven years, many things have taken a turn for the better.
I hope this can be rectified in the vote in two weeks' time so that the report is ultimately a balanced one.
I am not sure whether some of the recommendations in the current report are improvements.
There are also some recommendations within the report that are already included in the 2011 budget proposals.
I understand some amendments will be put forward again for the 2011 European Parliament budget.
It is a large additional burden for us as MEPs, but also for the administration of the House.
It is indicated in this agency's accounts that revenue was recorded, which was accrued from interest amounting to more than EUR 143 000 for the financial year 2008, which highlights that the agency has a high volume of liquidity over long periods.
In this regard, we urge the Commission to examine not only the possibilities for fully implementing cash management based on needs, but also, in particular, the extension of ENISA's mandate both beyond 2012 and as regards competences. (DE) Mr President, if we want a European Union that is accepted by its citizens, then it is crucial that citizens also know what is being done with the money they pay in taxes.
I therefore call on the Commission to go out and explain to EU citizens before discharge what exactly has happened to the EUR 800 million a year for Turkey.
It is not about whether or not we want to please representatives of other friendly countries, it is about us checking whether the programmes are really effective, it is about money reaching those it is intended for and not being drained off somewhere.
I hope that all others, whether they approve of the purposes of the expenditure or not, will take the same approach. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing discharge of the 2008 budget, but discharge is always an opportunity to look ahead and I feel that in this context in particular, we must focus on the many agencies that we have introduced.
We certainly must provide these agencies with financial resources but we must also ensure that they can do substantive work.
We must ensure that efficient, forward-looking work is done that also corresponds to our policies, and therefore I ask that we all ensure that these agencies are able to work well and efficiently for us in the future too.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to stress once more the Commission's commitment to pursuing the progress we have made over the last years in order to further improve the quality of spending.
Firstly, regarding national management declarations, an issue raised by Bart Staes and other Members, I would just remind you that, together with Commissioner Lewandowski, we sent a letter to the Committee on Budgetary Control saying that we will make a proposal regarding national management declarations in the forthcoming revision of the Financial Regulation.
I also think that it is very important to address the issue of the efficiency of the spending of EU funds.
Mr President, so that the Minutes are correct, I represent rapporteur Bogusław Liberadzki, who, like many others in this House, has been a victim of the transport problems this week.
Indeed, we all know that it means that we must remind the Member States of the European Union that manage a large portion of European funds of their responsibility to do so in accordance with good practice, because we also all know that the majority of the errors that are made in the utilisation of European funds are made by the Member States and at this level.
I would have expected my fellow Members to support pushing for national management statements in this House and also in the Member States, because that is where mistakes are being made and there is insufficient cooperation.
I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgetary Control supported the rapporteur with a slight majority.
Mr President, in my concluding speech, I would like to thank Commissioner Šemeta and the Commission services responsible for development aid and humanitarian aid for their diligent and effective cooperation in this process.
To conclude the debate on discharge for the European Development Funds, I only wish to express my gratitude for the excellent cooperation I have enjoyed with my colleagues, particularly Mrs Hohlmeier, and to welcome the major improvements achieved in the effective and transparent implementation of European development aid.
It is no accident that, of the seven institutions which I have had occasion to assess, six of them are more or less in order, and one is the cause of continual problems.
I do think this will happen earlier this year, but I would not want to allow a situation in which we receive a document, not for the year 2008, but for 2007.
A situation in which all European institutions are equal but the Council thinks it is more equal, just like in George Orwell's Animal Farm, is a situation which is highly alarming.
This concerns the departure, as I understand it, from the famous gentlemen's agreement of 1970, and so is a recognition that the Parliament of 40 years ago, which was then still nominated by national parliaments and not chosen in elections, should now be treated more seriously.
Departure from that gentlemen's agreement is a very good move, for which I am very grateful to the Council.
This work programme really must be consistent with that of the European Union and must - this is my hope - be monitored by our three institutions.
Written statements (Rule 149) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House has to be a paragon in terms of financial transparency and internal budgetary control.
We cannot be hard enough on ourselves in this regard.
Even the strictest internal controls cannot prevent that.
Yet we must also recognise that great efforts have been made in recent years to put things right.
I should like to give two examples.
Firstly, the new Statute for Assistants, which is in place at long last following years of discussion.
in writing. - Generally, we are pleased to see the current state of affairs regarding the budget of the European Union.
