The political reality of Egypt changed spectacularly last Friday when President Mubarak stepped down after 30 years in office.
The High Representative contacted directly the Egyptian Vice-President Omar Suleiman when concerns of rising violence or human rights abuses arose.
The European Council asked the High Representative to develop a package of measures supporting the transformation process in Egypt and Tunisia.
The High Representative has been in close contact throughout with international leaders to discuss the challenges facing the region and to ensure a coordinated and, therefore, strong international response.
The European Union already has a wide portfolio of programmes in place in Egypt and spends close to EUR 150 million a year there.
EUR 40 million were allocated to this objective in 2007-2010 and EUR 50 million are planned for 2011-2013.
I would like to say, Madam President, that this is a good opportunity to underline that the EU understands, once and for all, that today history is being made in the present and in these historic times we are living through we have to act as a global player and perform the necessary duties or we will have to resign ourselves, Madam President, to not playing on the international stage in the role we want to maintain and we will have to restrict ourselves, as was the case until now, to picking up the bill for major global problems.
The present events in Egypt prove that Islam need not only be fundamentalist, but that it can also be democratic if we accept that democracy may have a variable geometry, and if we let it grow naturally from its specific soil.
It is clear that the situation in Egypt demands three things: first of all, the Commission has to come forward with a credible and global plan for Tunisia and for Egypt - how to strengthen civil society, what to do to fight corruption, how to help in building democratic institutions, how to create an independent justice system and how to help economic construction and development.
I think that Parliament should back her in these three claims and hope that she expressed these three elements, these three concerns, in her contacts in Egypt.
What we also need now is a bold message from the High Representative on what is happening in these countries; we should not wait until a number of things have happened.
On these issues we also need a clear communication from the Commission, and mainly from Baroness Ashton, on what is happening in these countries, expressing our support for the masses in those countries.
At the same time, I do not think that a trip by Baroness Ashton is sufficient as things stand today.
We must therefore support this process, and I believe that the Commission should do as it did in the past for the East, and offer its help with any constitutional aspects needed - in other words, it must be present on a political, legal and economic level.
This is not about calling Israel into question, but rather the policy of its government.
However, an Islamist takeover in Egypt would almost certainly result in the revocation of the Egypt-Israel peace treaty and the opening of the Rafah border to Hamas.
Supporting a democratic Egypt is incredibly important for us, and the economic challenges are massive.
I do not need to debate now why Israel is our ally, why it shares our common democratic values, why the security wall has actually reduced terrorist attacks and suicide bombers by over 90%, or why Israel has a free press and has free elections, unlike any of its neighbours.
All I am saying at this stage is that the peace treaty with Israel is essential for regional stability and security and, of course, you must remember that the EU is a very big player within the Quartet.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (ES) Mr President, Mr F端le, the European Union has a very serious problem with its neighbourhood policy, which must be corrected.
Mr F端le, we fail to understand why Article 2 of the association agreements has never been implemented.
This is what needs to be changed, Mr F端le.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fall of President Mubarak has paved the way for democracy, but it is also a tremendous opportunity to liberate the Egyptian people.
On the other hand, we must be clear with the future government of Cairo and emphasise that a new and more generous partnership policy will be conditional upon regional security and peace with Israel. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, it is only natural for revolutionary events to be accompanied by a great deal of emotion.
However, democratisation in these countries does not really provide grounds for asylum and if democracy now breaks out there it must also be possible for the people to be able to stay there. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, there is something we need to recognise and it is something that we have not yet learnt, namely that we often have to work with undemocratic regimes because many countries in this world are ruled by dictators.
Providing assistance now also means stability and security for us - freedom and stability go hand in hand.
That means lifting martial law and involving all democratic forces in the steps that are now being taken.
Finally, we have indeed noted that the democracy clauses which are in place, but which are not being applied, have proved unsuccessful.
It is good that the Muslim Brotherhood has involved itself in the process to amend the constitution, has founded a party and will take part in elections.
The word on the streets of Cairo was that only one Egyptian citizen was actually still adhering to the curfew: Hosni Mubarak.
The ayatollahs behind dictator Ahmadinejad and Al Qaida must be having a field day.
The Muslim Brotherhood can now continue their holy war against Israel and the West.
I therefore believe that it is very important for the European Union to be able to draw conclusions quickly from its relative invisibility, to put it mildly, during the recent events.
That is why I believe that no effort must be spared, that we must offer our full and unconditional support to the democratic transition process, both in Tunisia and in Egypt, that we must be on the side of these peoples and must tell them so, and that we must do everything in our power to ensure that the rule of law emerges, stronger, from these revolutions and these changes, particularly in the case of Egypt.
I am also calling on us and the Commission to face up to that risk and to send out an important signal to the Egyptians, and that is that they can forget our support if they opt for the Muslim Brotherhood and sharia.
That is, I think, a very important signal to send out today and I hope that you will support me in this. (RO) Mr President, 18 days of riots, Hosni Mubarak's resignation and the taking of control by the Supreme Military Council basically pave the way for transition.
As you are aware, the constitution was suspended and parliament dissolved recently, and the committee set up to revise the constitution is proposing to make changes in 10 days and hold legislative and presidential elections in six months.
Let us not forget either that the democratic forces are in critical need of renewal and strengthening so as to avoid causing an imbalance in the political landscape. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Egypt: from the virtual community on Facebook to the real one, with millions of people seeking fairer distribution of wealth and greater justice, and protesting against corruption.
We want a secular democracy, with a distinct separation between religious authority and political power, a democracy that integrates minorities and establishes true rights: to public healthcare, social security and work.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union must support the democratic process and contribute to its success.
However, this new situation requires us to totally rethink our vision, our policies and our relationships with these countries.
It is crucial to give a clear indication of our support for these countries at this point in time.
One of the fundamental features of the revolutions in Central Europe in 1989 was the ability immediately to create genuine organisations to represent the democratic, secular revolutionary forces.
Mr Zala, there are two questions in this debate I would like your views on.
Taking into consideration that the constitution is suspended, Parliament dissolved and presidential elections scheduled later this year, it is very important to ensure that free and fair elections are granted in this country.
At the same time, we face a risk that if elections are held without the foundations of deep democracy being laid, then yes, it is possible that extremists will triumph. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, I strongly support all the steps being taken by the High Representative to help Egypt achieve democracy and prosperity without further bloodshed.
Mr President, I would like to say to Mr F端le that we really need to focus on insisting on a transition to civilian government, and on making sure that the military regime now in place will fulfil its promises.
Lastly, I think that Baroness Ashton is right: this is a time to think big.
I did not ask to be included in catch-the-eye in this debate, but I did note what you did and I hope other Presidents will emulate it.
A group of lawyers has been briefed and will have 10 days to table its proposed amendments.
in writing. - It is essential to define the role of the EU in the turmoil taking place in many Arab countries in general and Egypt in particular.
The socio-political base provoking the changes in the Arab world is not dissimilar across those countries which are now in transition to what we hope will be a democratic environment.
