Information on medicinal products (Community code relating to medicinal products) - Information on medicinal products (Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Christofer Fjellner, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription, Directive 2001/83/EC on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use - C6-0516/2008 -, and the report by Christofer Fjellner, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency - C6-0517/2008 -.
These are principles that everyone shares and that have made it easier for us to reach agreement.
The fourth thing we did was to say that any information that could come from pharmaceutical companies should not be received by patients or the general public without them asking for it first.
We have therefore rejected any so-called 'push channels', such as advertisements on the radio, television or in newspapers.
The last point I would like to highlight is that companies are only one link in the information chain.
I call on the Council to take the baton so that, together, we can ensure that Europe has better information on medicinal products for the sake of the patients.
However, I strongly believe - as I also stressed during my hearing - that we have to address this file from a patient's angle.
The Commission is already obliged to draft a report on the readability of the package leaflet.
I propose that the future European medicinal web portal recently created by the Pharmacovigilance Directive be used as a central point to access information.
I see our role as connecting other reliable information providers such as Member States or patient organisations.
The right of citizens to lodge complaints, for example, is a fundamental EU principle.
The deadline for the tacit approval of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) should be extended from 60 to 120 days.
I would also like to congratulate Commissioner Dalli.
Nevertheless, we shall continue to speak out against health professionals being used to distribute to their patients brochures and information that have been supplied by pharmaceutical companies without any checks by health authorities.
Experience shows that we must be very vigilant - and what happened with the Mediator medicinal products shows, in fact, just how vigilant we must be - and make sure that we strike a balance, as we have sought to do with this draft report.
I would also like to make a personal point with regard to the materials provided to healthcare professionals for distribution to patients.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (CS) Mr President, I would like to begin by emphasising that this is one the reports that I fully support.
These eternal debates over the fact that we are unable to distinguish between advertising and information now seem ridiculous to me, if you will pardon the expression.
Madam President, Commissioner, I agree with the rapporteur that the focus should be on patient safety and providing patients with information.
Patients, nurses and doctors should all have access to the best possible information on a given medicinal product.
It is therefore extremely important for pharmaceutical companies to understand their responsibility and the importance of their information being factually and technically correct and of it not being construed as advertising.
We therefore also need to impose obligations on these third countries in order to put an end to this black market entirely. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive that we are discussing is intended to harmonise the content and quality of pharmaceutical information which is accessible to all citizens of the Union.
We must give all European citizens the same opportunity to access information on medicinal products.
Every one of us, and especially the pharmaceutical industry, must have the same objective, which is to provide information that is accurate and useful and, at the same time, available to all citizens without distinction.
It is therefore crucial to have effective tools to control information, especially that which patients may obtain from the Internet.
I myself come from the world of advertising - my professional background is in advertising and PR - and I know that advertising has one aim, and that is to sell.
Our task, however, is to provide information.
The change of focus from the original Council proposals was important, as was the emphasis on the patient's right to access information as opposed to the possibility of pharmaceutical companies providing information.
The Information to Patients Directive sends a strong message on the rights of patients.
However, our duty as politicians is to protect patients from incorrect and misleading information.
The distinction between information and advertising is becoming less clear.
I therefore support Parliament's position which aims for a clearer definition of information and advertising.
I therefore congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work and hope that we will all be healthier and will have easier access to information. (CS) Madam President, the directive on medicinal products has not been significantly amended for almost 10 years, and a revision of this directive is therefore long overdue.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work.
I therefore also want the patient to be at the centre of the information.
I would like to focus on two key points.
If I have understood you correctly, you support this in principle, but perhaps have not said so in this dossier.
I consider this to be a very, very important matter. (FR) Madam President, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Fjellner, on the excellent work he has been doing for several months on these two reports.
However, we must also make sure that there is no excessive drug consumption as a result of commercial promotion.
In some Member States, patients have difficulty accessing even the most basic information about prescribed medicines.
However, our aim is not to ensure that pharmaceutical companies have the right to provide information, but to give patients the opportunity to obtain information.
Such a plan was also included in my report on consumer confidence in the digital environment. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report being discussed is extremely important, since it will enable European legislation on access to information on medicinal products to be harmonised and, above all, because it will ensure that patients obtain more information about prescription medicines.
The motion stresses the difference between advertising and information.
The central focus is the patient's right to information, with the active participation of organisations that represent citizens, particularly patients.
Of course, we need to have general practitioners communicating medical and scientific information to their patients.
I agree that doctors should not be instrumentalised by the pharmaceutical industry but, on the other hand, a doctor should be a good medium through which information should flow.
Here, we must ensure that information in the hands of doctors, as Mrs Rosbach has stated, should also be objective.
We already have a portal on rare diseases, but in the case of the overall spectrum of diseases, we have started and are attempting to tackle this issue.
Commission's position on the amendments tabled by the Parliament: - C6-0156/2008 - Amendments: Directly acceptable: 1, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 22, 26, 35, 39, 40, 42, 56, 60, 63, 64, 65, 67 and 69 Acceptable in principle: 9, 13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27, 32, 34, 36, 37, 41, 46, 48, 50, 52, 58, 62, 66, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78.
Acceptable subject to rewording: 5, 6, 7, 8, 15, 24, 25, 28, 33, 44, 49, 53, 59 and 70.
Partly acceptable: 2, 29, 31, 43, 54, 55, 61 and 79.
NOT acceptable: 17, 18, 30, 38, 45, 47, 51, 57, 68, 71 and 73 - C6-0517/2008 - Amendments: Acceptable: 2 and 7 Acceptable in principle: 6 Acceptable subject to rewording: 1 Partly acceptable: 9, 10 and 12 NOT acceptable: 3, 4, 5, 8 and 11 Madam President, I am pleased that the Commission started by pointing out precisely the fact that access to information on medicinal products currently varies enormously throughout Europe, because we have tried very hard to ensure that everyone has good access and to harmonise this access.
In that case, however, we must vote for the doctor himself to be able to decide and not for this directive to govern what doctors are to give to patients.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 24 November 2010.
One instance is that printed matter has to be submitted to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 90 days in advance for analyses before being forwarded to consumers.
The cost of some medicines in Malta is double or even more than the cost in Europe.
I strongly believe that the EMA should not only act as a shield for consumers in relation to information on medicines, but when consumers are being blatantly overcharged for medicines and national governments are unable to tackle the issue, the EMA should have the ability to address the issue.
I think it is a good thing that, as a result of this proposal, the focus of the directive and the regulation has moved from drug manufacturers to patients.
So I welcome the continued ban on advertising of prescription medicines on television, radio, and in the print media.
