We also greet both German leaders at that time: the Chancellor of West Germany, Helmut Kohl and the Prime Minister of East Germany, Lothar de Maizière.
Those days were momentous for our continent and we can be proud of it and we will forever remember those days. (The House accorded the speaker a standing ovation) Mr President, Mr Delors, ladies and gentlemen, as I look around, I can spot many well-known and familiar faces here and I am very pleased to see all of you again.
Neither the uprisings in East Berlin in 1953 and in Poland and Hungary in 1956, nor the Prague Spring of 1968, succeeded in seriously shaking the foundations of communist rule.
However, all of this changed in October 1978 with the election of a Polish cardinal as Pope.
John Paul II was the first conspicuous sign of the winds of change which would blow across Europe from then on and which, in 1989, would become a storm of upheaval. (Loud applause) The strikes in Danzig in 1980 and the founding of the first free trade union in the Eastern bloc made it clear that a process had been started that could no longer be stopped.
Tadeusz Mazowiecki and Lech Wałęsa not only changed their own world, but also ours.
I will only mention Andrei Sakharov and Václav Havel, who had already pulled stones out of the wall in Berlin long before it actually fell in 1989. (Applause) I would also like once again to emphasise our respect and gratitude towards Hungary which was the first country to be brave enough to open its borders. (Applause) It was a time when people acted on behalf of one another, because of their longing for freedom.
We Germans would not be doing justice to our national unity if we did not see it as a contribution to the unity of Europe, following the historical events which I have outlined here. (Applause) The first and the only free elections to the East German Volkskammer on 18 March 1990 resulted in a parliament which represented a true cross-section of the population and expressed the vitality and persuasive power of democracy as a form of government.
History will see them as astonishing proof of the fact that we East Germans, after liberating ourselves in the autumn of 1989, succeeded in introducing democracy to our country in the spring of 1990.
This admission remains valid even now that the GDR has come to an end and it represents an obligation to search in everything we do for those things which unite us in Europe.
The East German Parliament gave me the responsibility of putting in place the process which would bring about the unity of the two states.
The elections on 18 March 1990 were also a plebiscite on the German question.
One decisive factor was the reintroduction of local self-government which went back to Stein and Hardenberg's reform of Prussia and which allowed the people to take part in free local elections on 6 May 1990.
We also drew up the major national treaties on the economic, currency and social union, the treaty of unification and, finally, the 2+4 treaty with the Allied powers - I am very pleased to see Roland Dumas here - which we signed in Moscow on 12 December. (Applause) In those six months, we achieved a huge amount and we are justified in referring to this as the most hardworking parliament in our history.
For this reason, we should never forget that Russia is an important part of this European house and that our partnership with Russia is essential to our survival. (Applause) On the basis of the Atlantic Alliance, George Bush provided special protection for our right to self-determination.
I would also like to mention the name of Jacques Delors, who achieved a great deal as President of the European Commission and who provided us with indispensable help in the process of bringing about German unity.
Other states and peoples have also defended our freedom and have done everything in their power to help us to achieve unity.
Now we want to be, and we are in a position to be, the driving force behind European unity and a guarantor of peace in the world, because we have achieved our unity peacefully, in cooperation with our neighbours, and we largely owe it to those neighbours.
But the most exciting moment was, of course, on 3 October 1990.
You will have realised that I did not welcome to the European Parliament former President of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Pöttering, because Hans-Gert, you are one of us.
During the whole of 1989, the peoples of Europe expressed themselves: in Poland, the events that had begun with the Gdańsk strikes in the summer of 1980 led to the Belvedere Agreements between February and April 1989, followed by the first free elections on 4 June 1989; in Czechoslovakia, the people commemorated Jan Palach's sacrifice by fire; in Hungary, they marked the solemn funeral of Imre Nagy, at last rehabilitated; in Bulgaria, President Zhivkov was forced to stand down; and, of course, in East Germany, increasing numbers of people took part in peaceful demonstrations.
We therefore witnessed a moment in time when history accelerated, and we must admit that it took us all by surprise.
However, let us return for a moment to the shock of the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989.
On 11 November, having convened an urgent meeting of the members of the European Commission, I was interviewed on German television and I asserted that the East Germans were free to choose, and that there was a place for them in the European Community.
However, the European Community could ultimately only approve and support reunification of the two Germanies, which it did at the European Council meeting held on 24 April 1990 in Dublin.
On 19 November 1989, on the initiative of Mr Mitterrand, an extraordinary European Council met to pave the way for regular consultations between the two Germanies and their partners.
The effort will continue over the years to come thanks to the ongoing payment of the solidarity tax - if I am not mistaken, it will continue until 2019.
Ladies and gentlemen, 20 years later, at a time when, the financial crisis aside, many people are questioning European integration, the 27 Member States are faced with an historic responsibility: to deepen European integration, or to live day to day as a result of compromises that may well be necessary but that do not bode well for the future. (Applause) Today, as we joyfully celebrate German reunification, how can we fail to ask Germany what future it sees for Europe?
This very restraint caused successive German governments to take the lead in European integration, especially when it came to abandoning the mighty Deutschmark - and I say the mighty Deutschmark because it is 10 Marks and is the symbol of Germany's rebirth - in exchange for the euro, for the single currency.
What I retain in my memory and in my heart is that night of 3 October, when the President of the European Parliament, Mr Barón Crespo, and I had the pleasure and honour of being invited to that memorable evening gathering in the former Reichstag.
