Mass atrocities in Jos, Nigeria, in January and March (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the mass atrocities in Jos (Nigeria) in January and March.
The violent conflicts in Jos and surrounding villages in January and March this year, during which hundreds of citizens are reported to have been massacred or seriously injured, have been particularly devastating.
In January, High Representative/Vice-President Catherine Ashton issued a joint statement with Hillary Clinton, David Miliband and Bernard Kouchner expressing deep regret at the violence and tragic loss of lives.
The EU issued further declarations on Nigeria in February and March; they conducted a diplomatic démarche with the Nigerian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to convey condemnation of the most recent outbreaks of violence.
The EU requested that the Federal Government of Nigeria conduct a full investigation of the causes of the most recent violence and bring the perpetrators of violence to justice.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, may I join with the Commissioner in expressing my sympathy to the people of Nigeria on the death of President Umaru Yar'Adua.
The recent outbreaks of violence in Nigeria are emblematic of a wider problem that faces the country.
The ethnic rivalry between the Hausa and the Berom people must also be recognised as a factor in the violence.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, our S&amp;D Group joins Commissioner Rehn in expressing our condolences after the death of the Nigerian President, Umaru Yar'Adua.
The violence between the Muslim and Christian population in Jos, Nigeria, in January and March this year, shows the tense and explosive state of this region.
The 200 Christians killed in the Jos region are the reason for this current resolution.
Of course, it can cite Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement to strengthen the dialogue with the political authorities of that country.
We can, of course, deplore the fact that this rich country - the leading oil-exporting country in Africa - is unable to invest this wealth to combat poverty.
The interim President, Goodluck Jonathan, has all the qualities needed to fight the problems that I have just mentioned in a courageous way.
There is nothing more shocking, especially when it is certain that many of these death-row inmates are innocent and the majority of them did not have the right to a fair trial, and particularly as in February 2009 the Nigerian Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs declared before the UN that his country was applying a de facto moratorium on the death penalty.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (NL) Mr President, I too wish to extend my group's sympathy to the Nigerian people on the death of their president.
Nigeria is a great African country, with a rich secular history, and with its 140 million inhabitants it is by far the most highly populated country in the continent.
The value of its GDP puts it in second place in Africa, after South Africa and before Algeria.
Because this country is a clear example of the seizure of Africa's resources by some international companies, in this case oil companies, and by one in particular, which exploits 40% of Nigeria's oil, in complicity with some of our governments.
This is not just because of oil exploitation, it is also because, each month, 500 containers filled with the most varied toxic waste enter the port and are left in huge open tips.
As the resolution we will be voting on reminds us, the situation is extremely critical: more than 14 000 people have been killed in religious or ethnic conflicts since the end of the military rule in 1999.
There is talk of over 500 deaths in the past three months.
In this case we must support the resolution and also what Mrs Vergiat has said.
We must not tolerate what China is intending to do in Nigeria and its disregard for human rights. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence does not resolve conflicts; it only increases their tragic consequences.
The current uncertainty following the death yesterday of the President - I send my condolences to the Nigerian people - will inevitably result in a power struggle and this will follow on to compound the instability in that large Africa country.
Past colonial interference and brutal conquest in Africa, often exploiting communal and tribal divisions, have left a lasting legacy.
This is why we are taking an interest in what happened on 7 March near the city of Jos.
The problem in Central Nigeria is not only that the people who are being killed there are Christians, because in January this year it was Muslims who were killed.
In Nigeria's case, religious divisions are compounded by a number of other divisions, and some of these have already been mentioned: economic, ethnic and social.
I think it is important to refer to their own documents. - Mr President, I would like to express my deep regret at the violence that broke out in the area of Jos and caused the deaths of several hundred people.
Finally, especially today, my sympathy goes to the Nigerian people on the death of their President. (RO) I too wish to join those who have expressed their condolences to the Nigerian people following the death of President Umaru Yar'Adua.
I would also like to take the opportunity to express my condolences to the Nigerian people in connection with the death of the president.
I would just like to recall, however, the words of a Catholic missionary who has lived and worked in Nigeria: Father Piero Gheddo recently pointed out that, only 20 years ago, relations between Muslims and Christians in the central and northern areas of Nigeria were undoubtedly difficult and characterised by forms of anti-Christian discrimination, but that it never reached the stage where there was the mass violence that we have seen over the last decade.
However, the priest made it clear that, although the situation has worsened in recent years, it is also because the influence of Islamic extremism as expressed by the ideology of Al-Qaida has spread to Nigeria, and in particular to 12 states in the north that have adopted sharia as the law of the land.
It should be remembered that this is not the first time such terrible events have taken place in Jos.
The fighting between adherents of these two religions has been going on since 2001.
