rapporteur. - (RO) Madam President, the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of international agreements.
Prior to the current agreement, aviation was the subject of bilateral agreements with 19 of the EU Member States.
In November 2002, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that certain provisions in these bilateral agreements were incompatible with Community law.
Phase three begins once both sides introduce the possibility for investors to set up and control new airlines in each others' markets.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, I shall be very brief, not because the Agreement with Vietnam is any less important, but because Mrs Ticău has reiterated, in the previous report on Canada, the legislative and regulatory framework within which these air agreements between the European Union and a third country will apply.
The context is therefore exactly the same as this one except that our agreement, which is simpler and less ambitious, seeks to regularise horizontally, in the area of air services, the 17 bilateral agreements that previously existed between Vietnam and the countries of Europe, and naturally to extend them to all EU countries.
The aim is therefore - as the previous rapporteur has already said - to bring into line with European legislation the existing bilateral agreements on air services that have been concluded up to now between the European Union and Vietnam.
My thanks go to the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and in particular to Ms Ţicău.
With respect to market access, the agreement comprises the full range of traffic rights and investment opportunities: this means 100% ownership and control.
Currently, we have negotiated 45 such horizontal agreements with partner countries worldwide.
On 4 October 2010, during a visit to the European Union, the Vietnamese Prime Minister signed the agreement, which represents an important step towards strengthening aviation relations between the EU and Vietnam.
The horizontal agreement will restore legal certainty to our aviation relations with Vietnam by bringing the bilateral air services agreements between 17 Member States and Vietnam into line with EU law.
Most importantly, it will remove nationality restrictions in bilateral air services agreements between EU Member States and Vietnam.
In this case, 27 agreements which could have been concluded in these areas are being replaced by just one.
The opening up of the market and the cooperation at a European level should be treated in the same way by both sides.
Importantly, these agreements also bring benefits for passengers, because they can result in the controls being simplified without them being neglected.
Finally, I would like to say that we welcome this agreement, because, as I have already said, 27 agreements are ultimately being replaced by one.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, first of all, I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for the work they have done and for the helpful cooperation on their part.
The agreement with Vietnam also reminds us of the growing importance of the Asian market, and I think that, on this particular point, we have to point out that the Council has been dragging its heels for years over giving the Commission a mandate to negotiate with countries such as China and India.
This does not always make things simple, but it is at least a new task, which we are taking very seriously.
Mr Kallas said that we were all very much in support of this issue, but in the case of the USA our reaction is more restrained, because the agreement does not represent a true partnership.
The agreement with Vietnam largely follows the old model that we have always used.
The cooperation in the field of the environment and social issues is positive, but in my opinion it could be extended even further.
In this case, I believe that we have given in far too early.
Finally, I would like to mention code-sharing, which is being presented as a major achievement.
on behalf on the EFD Group. - (LT) Madam President, the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, extended the circumstances in which Parliament's consent was required for the conclusion of an international agreement.
It should serve as a target for other negotiations currently underway.
All of these air agreements are beneficial and necessary for the European Union, our airlines and our citizens. (DE) Madam President, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to thank all three rapporteurs very much for their hard work.
However, I would also like to take the opportunity to refer once again to the framework agreement of 20 November 2010.
We know that the negotiations on these and on other agreements are of the highest quality, but it is important for us to be aware of the strengths and weak points of the agreements after they come into force, so that we can make a better contribution.
There are 31 times fewer accidents amongst holders of US licences.
It is an important agreement for the EU and our aviation sector.
This resolution clearly demonstrates Canada's position as our most proactive international partner, and I wholeheartedly support it. (PT) Madam President, these agreements are part of the liberalisation process that is currently underway in the air transport sector.
I will be going to Washington in a few weeks' time, and we have committed ourselves to work in five directions: first safety, second security, third technological cooperation - we signed an important agreement in Budapest about interoperability of air traffic management systems which is extremely important for Europe so that we do not lose our competitive advantages -, fourth the environment and fifth commerce or business.
If the committee does not live up to the hopes invested in it, Parliament should call on the Commission to open a third stage of negotiations.
rapporteur. - (RO) Madam President, the air transport agreement between the European Union and Canada can be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement between the European Union and a major world partner.
The agreement could generate consumer benefits of at least EUR 72 million through lower fares and would also create new jobs.
I do not think therefore that there is anything left to be said other I am delighted that we have been able to reach a satisfactory conclusion with this Agreement, which will open up travel between Vietnam and Europe a little more.
Suspension could lead to European passengers and airlines no longer being able to profit from the significant benefits which they have enjoyed since March 2008 thanks to this protocol.
We consider it important that there be an agreement between the European Union and the United States on data protection in the field of cooperation in criminal and judicial matters.
