The original Tobin Tax idea of using a financial transaction tax for development aid has also strongly resurfaced.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am happy to contribute to this important debate on the innovative financing instruments and answer this oral question.
Regarding the options for the introduction of a general financial transaction tax, the Commission intends, as announced in its EU 2020 strategy, to contribute to the debate on innovative financing at global level.
Concerning the use of tax as a complementary regulatory tool in the context of financial market reforms, I can confirm that the Commission is considering complementarities between the tax and regulatory instruments and will pay attention to the cumulative impact of these two types of instruments on the ability of the financial sector to support economic recovery.
The Commission will also take into account the conclusions of our main international partners in order to identify the options with the most potential.
More generally, it is important to underline the consequences of implementing this tax in the European Union alone, as some people are advocating, if no agreement were possible at international level.
Commissioner, if there are 70, 80, 90 or 100 times as many financial transactions in the world as gross national product, and if this development is becoming ever more dynamic, would you then say speculative elements are, for the greater part, linked to this explosion of financial products?
On the one hand, I am one of those who doubt whether it will be possible to implement the tax in practice.
It is good that a proper investigation is being carried out at EU level into how a tax like this could work.
This is quite simply because the capital flows that concern us start out in the European Union, then may move elsewhere, only to return to the European Union.
When these flows leave and return, we have the opportunity to demand that they can be traced, and to know whether or not they have been subject to this tax on financial transactions.
We must be creative and look as widely as possible to see where we can best respond to the financial crisis and strengthening our national financial systems.
As the Commissioner has said, the IMF, under the instruction of the G20, is currently doing a study into possible financial taxes, yet this resolution appears to seek answers ahead of this study.
It is fundamental to the sovereignty of our EU Member States that they retain the right to control their own tax systems.
I would not be able to support something that actually raises taxes for other purposes.
It must be worldwide.
I believe that the European Union is a sufficiently strong financial market for a general residual tax on all transactions to be created without capital flight.
However, above all, we would be telling our citizens something absolutely decisive: that, in this crisis, at least on a residual level, the financial capital that led us into the crisis, at least on a residual level, must pay.
If you now think we can slow down a little with such a financial transaction tax, then the speculators - as I will call them - that I personally have got along well with, in other words, investment fund managers as they are euphemistically called, have an entirely different view, because they are conducting their business along this dividing line ever more quickly and intensively.
I say this because there are two examples we could look at when we discuss this item.
And I think, Commissioner, there is every reason to be careful and hesitant when we discuss this item. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, it seems that you, Commissioner, are responsible for taxation and that your contribution to the 2020 strategy in that area will be to propose an innovative type of taxation.
I note that the 2020 strategy does not even mention harmonisation of corporation tax; perhaps you left it in a drawer somewhere.
I remind you that the 2002 Monterrey Consensus and 2008 Doha follow-up conference recommended innovative and alternative financing in the field of development.
I believe that the European Union - alongside the G20, certainly - must take the initiative in launching a tax on international financial transactions that could be set, as has been said, on a scale between 0.01% - what a lot of money! - and 0.1% of the value of the transaction.
I do not believe that every failing financial institution should automatically be bailed out by taxpayers.
The proposal, therefore, for a tax on financial transactions could limit the size of the financial system and make certain speculative financial options unprofitable.
I think that together, we have developed a very balanced text.
On the one hand, we cannot pretend that Europe is the Island of the Blessed where we can do what we like without the global financial markets reacting to it.
On the other hand, we must also ensure that the sector makes an appropriate contribution to overcoming the crisis.
That is why I would caution that we must stop coming up with a new item every week that we can use to solve all the problems of the world.
Commissioner, if you have not looked at their website, I would highly recommend it to you as part of this debate.
The basis of the campaign is a financial transaction tax at 0.05%, which they believe would raise something in the region of GBP 37 billion.
If I put that into perspective, I listened to John Kay the economist about three weeks ago; he came to Scotland to speak, and if Scotland had been an independent country and our banks had collapsed, each man, woman and child in Scotland would have been liable for GBP 750 000.
I know that the EU 2020 will come forward in April, but it would be good to hear your time-scale. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, in the current crisis, there are only two choices before us.
In fact, several economists believe that if we applied a low tax rate of 0.5% to financial transactions, it would make a further EUR 500 billion available to the European Union.
We do not need just global governance mechanisms; we need global supervision mechanisms, global regulatory guidance mechanisms and also sources of funding.
The issue of European or global scale hardly matters.
As our needs are global as well - such as the development agenda, the Millennium Development Goals or tackling climate change - to me it is more than natural that financial transaction taxation should be the first attempt at global taxation.
Let the Commission be bold, but we must ensure that the financial transaction tax must be very focused and doable.
Before introducing a new tax, the European Commission must examine very carefully the pros and cons this tax will entail.
Against this background, I would like to ask the European Commission what mechanisms or formulae are being considered for protecting countries against the accumulation of speculative capital and whether it is considering other measures as well for regulating and supervising the financial system.
If we do not do something straight away, there will be five hundred million by 2050.
We have a serious climate-related obligation towards these countries of an estimated EUR 100 billion a year.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am pleased that you have devoted your time to this important debate.
As I explained, the Commission is currently examining innovative financing at a global level and is paying particular attention to the following issues.
We have to make this analysis very thoroughly in order to make proper conclusions as to which options are the best.
I should also say that, in the EU 2020 strategy, 'taxation' or 'taxes' is mentioned many times, which is in strong contrast with previous strategic documents.
To conclude, I would like to stress that the Commission promotes and supports a serious global analysis on the potential benefits and disadvantages of different innovative finance instruments, including a financial transaction tax.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday, 10 March 2010.
