The case of Ai Weiwei in China The next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on the case of Ai Weiwei in China.
I have to tell you that I have my doubts that this resolution will change anything in the attitude of the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese authorities.
The only thing we can say is in an urgent resolution in which we deplore what is happening.
If we can speak in favour of somebody who may be in gaol for years, one minute longer is not too much, Mr President! (DE) Mr President, I do not know how often Mr Verhofstadt is here.
Mr President, more than a year ago, we spoke in this Chamber about Liu Xiaobo being sentenced to prison.
Here we are now discussing a second signatory of Charter 08 who has been detained by the Chinese authorities.
As is well known, Ai Weiwei was prevented from attending the Nobel Prize award ceremony.
I believe that we need to reassess our dialogue on human rights more generally.
We can see that the methods that Russia used against Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been used by Venezuela and Kazakhstan against businessmen who come too close to political influence, who want to establish opposition parties: they are all punished in the name of economic crimes.
We call for the immediate release of Ai Weiwei.
Violations of human rights by the Chinese authorities must be a constant theme in its political dialogue with China, and this dialogue should be rethought to ensure that there are concrete results, in particular, the review of court rulings that have kept human rights activists in gaol.
When pursuing its economic interests, the EU itself has a responsibility to support activists like Ai Weiwei, Liu Xiaobo and Hu Jun, who have fought courageously for urgent political reform in China, against oppression, and for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
At the same time, our representations are regularly ignored in the human rights dialogue that the European Union is conducting with the Chinese representatives at all levels - with a friendly smile, but ignored and dismissed nonetheless.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, I condemn the arrest of Ai Weiwei and call for his immediate release.
His detention is part of the most severe police crackdown in China in decades.
This pays for a massive apparatus of State repression, including over 40 000 policemen whose sole job is to police the Internet for dissent.
It is in the Chinese interest to help bring about a breakthrough in human rights and we must therefore support these initiatives as well. (FI) Mr President, the artist Ai Weiwei, who has achieved international recognition, is someone who has enriched Chinese culture and art.
The case of Ai Weiwei is a perfect example.
Here is a world-renowned artist, arrested on 3 April for no apparent reason.
Right now, however, we are talking about China and there we are more or less powerless, as has already been said.
Mr Posselt, I do not believe by the way that it is really in the Chinese interest - as you said - to help bring about a breakthrough in human rights.
We are talking today about many people: Ai Weiwei and Liu Xiaobo have already been mentioned.
Otherwise, as a strong economic power, China will play us off against each other and we will achieve nothing whatsoever.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the detention of the distinguished Chinese artist, Ai Weiwei, at Beijing Airport on 3 April as he was attempting to travel to Hong Kong, has rightly drawn international concern.
We call for the immediate release of Ai Weiwei.
Several prominent Chinese lawyers who frequently act for defendants in human rights cases are reported to have been arrested by police officials since February and have not been seen since.
Concerns about their treatment are only intensified by the ongoing disappearance of the lawyer Gao Zhisheng who, with the exception of a brief reappearance in April 2010, has now been missing for over two years.
The High Representative is worried about reports based on interviews with Mr Gao in April 2010 that during his initial period of disappearance, he was detained incommunicado in a variety of unauthorised places of detention and subjected to improper treatment.
I can assure this House that the Vice-President/High Representative, Catherine Ashton, is following developments very closely and will raise these issues with the Chinese authorities at the earliest opportunity, and that the EU will also make known its concern to the Chinese authorities at the next round of the EU-China human rights dialogue, for which we have proposed dates in May.
