Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B7-0019/2011).
My question to the Council was identical to this, but Question Time with the Council has now been cancelled, without a replacement.
The Commission recommendation on the active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market and the EPSCO Council Conclusions of 17 December 2008 on common active inclusion principles to combat poverty more effectively both highlight the importance of access to adequate resources, alongside quality services and inclusive labour markets.
The recommendation calls on the Member States in particular to 'recognise the individual's basic right to resources and social assistance sufficient to lead a life that is compatible with human dignity as part of a comprehensive, consistent drive to combat social exclusion'.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission has advocated a minimum income and also a minimum wage, but we are speaking here about Member State competences and Member State responsibilities, and the subsidiarity principle comes into this discussion very strongly.
We believe that in the European lighting and light bulb market, it will be possible to achieve a total saving of 40 billion kilowatt hours, which corresponds to electricity costs of between EUR 5 billion and EUR 10 billion.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, more than 30 million people across Europe are reported to be victims of crime every year.
It is important that we ensure that victims have access to their rights and receive the support and protection they need.
It is of the utmost importance that this should also apply cross-border, to people in a Member State other than their country of origin.
The CCCTB is scheduled for adoption by the College of Commissioners on 16 March 2011.
Colleagues, I realise that there are some Members who have come into the Chamber since we started Question Time and will not be aware of the huge time constraint we have been under in order to try to make progress.
With regard to Romania, we have already been working for more than half a year - or even longer - in order to find a solution as to how to address VAT fraud in agriculture in this particular country.
We have done two and now I am giving Mr Šemeta the question that is actually addressed to Commissioner De Gucht.
That is the only solution I can offer and I know that it is not satisfactory.
So I would like, if I may, to move, as I said, to the question put to Commissioner De Gucht and to be answered by Mr Šemeta, and I say with much regret that that will be the last question this evening.
Its launching summit took place on 7 May 2009.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, as I said in my reply, we are working on the issue of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, and we presented key recommendations to those countries on what they had to do in order to start negotiations on such agreements.
I agree with you and I will be tapping away at my computer first thing tomorrow morning, I assure you. (RO) You said earlier that we would get to the question I submitted to Commissioner De Gucht.
Mrs Ţicău, I wanted to take your question but I also said that the time constraint was that we had to stop at quarter to the hour and we reached that before we reached your question.
As I say, I am not happy with the position that we have been put in, but there is nothing more I could have done tonight to try to get through more questions.
