Preparations for the European Council meeting (28-29 October) - Preparations for the G20 summit (11-12 November) - Financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations concerning the measures and initiatives to be taken - Improving economic governance and stability framework in the EU, in particular, in the euro zone (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: Council and Commission statements on preparations for the G20 summit (11-12 November), Council and Commission statements on preparations for the European Council meeting (28-29 October), report by Mrs Berès, on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations concerning measures and initiatives to be taken (mid-term report), and report by Mr Feio, on improving the economic governance and stability framework of the Union, in particular in the euro area.
As you are aware, the task force chaired by President Van Rompuy met on Monday and approved its final report.
This report contains important and specific recommendations and proposals that should enable us to make a qualitative leap in European economic governance.
In particular, its recommendations seek to improve fiscal discipline, broaden economic monitoring, develop and broaden coordination, strengthen the crisis management framework and strengthen institutions.
All these recommendations can be implemented quickly through legislation.
It is true that some people have raised the issue of exploring other options that go further than these recommendations and beyond the scope of the treaties.
Another important item on the European Council's agenda is the preparations for the G20 summit.
In particular, we need to address the major global economic imbalances which can compromise growth.
The reason is very simple: relevance.
The very nature of many decisions that have direct consequences for our fellow citizens has shifted within the space of a few months from the local or national level to the international level.
Globalisation means that we now have to act simultaneously at European level and at international level on most issues.
We all know that the European Union needed time to reach an agreement on a new treaty that was also meant to strengthen the Union's role on the international stage.
It took us the best part of the last 10 years to deliver this treaty but only the last 10 months to realise how important it is.
The European Union is currently preparing two important meetings, both in Korea, the first in two days' time.
This is the meeting of G20 finance ministers and governors of central banks, and the second one is the G20 summit in mid-November.
In terms of substance, the Union's contribution to strong, sustainable and balanced growth is based on: 1) growth-friendly and differentiated fiscal consolidation plans; 2) the Europe 2020 strategy for structural reforms necessary for supporting, among other things, job creation; 3) the programme for reforming the financial sector and markets; and 4) the strengthening of the Union's economic governance.
I would add that the European Union is very interested in the peer review process within the G20.
As Europeans, we are used to this type of exercise and we know how interesting and useful it can be.
Clearly, everyone must play his or her part and show a genuine willingness to contribute to the framework for growth.
The war against protectionism is not won in a single battle but by maintaining a general state of alert, day after day.
For the rest, although the work of the technical bodies, such as the Financial Stability Board chaired by Mario Draghi, is progressing well, and overall integration, particularly in certain areas, is, in my opinion, going in the right direction, it is also important to carry out a long-term reform of the International Monetary Fund.
The Europeans are ready to honour past commitments, particularly those made last year in Pittsburgh, to ensure that the new IMF is more representative of the new international economic reality and hence, that emerging economies play a bigger role and have more of a voice.
All developed countries must contribute.
The Presidency and the Commission will do everything in their power to defend and support these interests resulting from our common position, which is the fruit of several months' work by all the Member States.
With regard to climate change, in theory, the intention is not to have a detailed discussion at the European Council, since the Environment Council already adopted, on 14 October, a very comprehensive text with conclusions establishing the European position.
The Cancún conference must achieve a balanced result which addresses the parties' concerns and enables us to establish the progress made up to now.
It could, however, envisage a second period of commitment under the Kyoto Protocol on several conditions.
I would like briefly to mention the preparation of the European Union's position in view of the summits with the United States, Russia and Ukraine.
This will be the first time that the preparations for the summits with the Union's key partners have been discussed by Heads of State or Government, in line with the conclusions of the European Council of 16 September.
Furthermore, the day after the G20 summit, the Europe-United States summit will represent an important opportunity for taking these results on board and developing a common approach to several current economic issues.
We should also seek to develop a common approach in relation to the emerging economies.
The Council could usefully examine ways in which to tackle the crisis and to promote growth and jobs, on the basis of a strengthened mandate.
We also intend to use the summit to prepare for Cancún, and we are obviously expecting an important positive signal from our US partners.
Concerning the summit with Ukraine, another debate is planned this afternoon with the High Representative, so you will forgive me if I do not say any more on this matter this morning.
At the summit with Russia, the European Union intends to express its full support for the partnership for modernisation, which will enable us to strengthen our cooperation in all areas, particularly in key areas such as innovation and energy.
Those, Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, are the main points due to be discussed at next week's European Council: a busy and important agenda indeed.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, today, we are debating first of all the issues that will be addressed next week by the European Council.
I will concentrate on what I believe are the most important topics: economic governance in the European Union, of course, and externally - apart from the very important summit with the US and also the summit with Russia - what I believe are the critical summits: the summit in Seoul of the G20 and also the Cancún conference on climate change.
The reform of our economic governance is a cornerstone of our sustainable recovery and our credibility.
I therefore urge Member States to go all the way towards these important goals and to pursue this agenda as a matter of urgency.
We have, by now, moved towards a stronger consensus on key areas for action, reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact and dealing with macro-economic imbalances, thanks also to the proceedings of the task force under the Presidency of Herman Van Rompuy.
Once all discussions are finished and all decisions are taken, the result of this combined process should be a vision for economic governance which will be much more comprehensive, much more attuned to the need to prevent problems in the first place, and much more solidly based through the use of sanctions.
We must show to our citizens that the European Union has been drawing all the conclusions and the lessons from the crisis.
One issue of particular importance is how to replace the current crisis mechanism agreed in May with a mechanism of a more permanent nature once it comes to its end in 2013.
We will do everything to avoid facing such crises ever again, but we will also do all we can to be better prepared for critical developments than we were last time.
Preparedness and the presence of a robust and permanent crisis mechanism can prevent such developments from arising in the future.
If and when realised in full, the result of all this work will be what we need: a system that provides incentives for Member States to conduct sound economic and fiscal policies, and a system that provides incentives for investors to observe responsible lending practices.
For the sake of its citizens, the European Union is putting in place a system of governance that is completely renewed when compared with the state of play before the crisis, and now we are putting all this system on a much sounder footing.
Our track record on economic governance, but also on Europe 2020 and financial regulation, will give us the right platform to go forward to the G20 in Seoul.
It will be a real test of whether the G20 can deliver the coordination the world economy needs through cooperative solutions at global level.
First, we need to remind ourselves that the G20 did play an important role in addressing the crisis.
Third, with the support of this Parliament, we are in the midst of a fundamental reform of our own financial system, and once again, I want to thank you for the emphasis you have put on the need to achieve this as soon as possible.
That is why the European Union should remain committed to push for a financial transaction tax at global level.
At the same time, we want to engage emerging economies in an international development framework which is in line with key principles of development policy and allows for greater coordination.
Yesterday, when I spoke here in Strasbourg with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, he specifically mentioned this point to me and he was very grateful for the support of the European Union for this agenda.
Finally, the G20 needs to take a lead in pushing ahead the trade agenda.
We need to stay focused on our goals here, to be ambitious for Europe, and also ambitious for the world.
We need to move the international process forward.
We have credibility second to none, grounded in a strong consensus between this Parliament, Member States and the Commission on what we have to do.
Cancún will not be the end of the story, the final breakthrough, but it can be a very important step on the road.
The EU needs to convey a clear and consistent message in order to move the negotiations forward.
We should aim at a set of concrete action-oriented measures which can deliver confidence and trust in the process and bring us closer to our final goal.
We all know that we have faced real challenges in the past months as expressed in a clear way in the report that you are going to discuss now from Mrs Berès.
I welcome the ambition and large consensus in this House on these important issues, but we all know that this is a time when unemployment is hitting hard, when public spending is being squeezed.
We also, however, know that we have been able to find answers as the European Union.
That is, I want to remind you of that point, a strategy for growth because growth - smart, inclusive sustainable growth - is the answer.
The reality is that if most observers were asked two years ago whether the European Union was ready to have a European supervisory system, most would say 'no, it is not possible'.
Let me therefore also underline the agreement reached yesterday by the Council on the Commission's proposal on hedge funds.
We are also making progress in other areas because we have to look at the real economy.
Let me also congratulate this House for the work in favour of a new directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions.
The objective is to get us out of the crisis and through recovery, achieving again the growth rates that create employment and make sure that our social market economy will be fit for the 21st century.
It will result in an 11% unemployment rate in our European Union by the end of the year.
It is unfolding against the backdrop of a new currency war, caused by the risk of a double-dip recession, in the words of our economists.
Faced with this situation, I have sensed the feeling, in this House, that it is our duty to send a strong message to the other institutions, to the Commission and the Council, to say that we must join forces again around the added value of the European project, and that the issue at stake can be summarised in a few words: we have a collective responsibility and we need to implement an EU-wide strategy that will enable us, in the area of energy, to be strong on the inside and thus, strong on the outside.
We must count on our own strength and, to do so, we need the European level.
However, Mr Barroso, to our mind, economic governance is not a vision.
There is the need to grant a substantial European loan to finance long-term investments.
What we are asking for is strong action based on the added value of the European project so that we can lift Europeans out of this recession and ensure that, in the future, everyone in Europe has a job, is out of poverty, and can once again have faith in the European project.
That is our ambition.
I hope, Mr Barroso, that you will be able to share it and take up many of the suggestions that we are making here, on behalf of this entire House. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Rehn, I should like to congratulate you in particular on the positive dialogue that Parliament has held with the Commission.
The crisis showed that many governments within the European Union were still upholding a policy that was not based on the true facts.
It is for precisely that reason that solutions are necessary, and the European Parliament must put forward these solutions with an appropriate and firm voice.
The idea of multilateral surveillance of macro-economic developments in the Union and in the Member States is being tabled, so as to better achieve the goals of the Europe 2020 strategy, to achieve a Europe of growth, and to strengthen a pact that is about stability, but also about growth.
Proposals are also being made to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact and look in particular detail at what is going on regarding debt, to enhance economic governance in the euro area by the Euro Group, and to establish a robust and credible excessive debt prevention and resolution mechanism for the euro area, which could involve establishing a European Monetary Fund.
The ideas of reviewing the EU budgetary, financial and fiscal instruments, of financial market regulation and supervision with a clear macro-economic dimension, and of improving the reliability of EU statistics, have also been tabled.
We are aiming for better institutional coordination between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
We are currently starting a legislative debate on six proposals that have been tabled by the Commission and, regarding which, I believe Parliament will maintain its own position.
It is for this very reason that I would also express my surprise that there was no mention of Parliament's position and the dialogue that this House had with the Council in a recent Council document tabled just yesterday.
The European Parliament is committed to a strong Europe and better economic governance, with more growth and better prosperity.
The first was the need to be serious about sanctioning Member States that breach the Stability Pact.
Any Member State that ignores its obligations and responsibilities, particularly with respect to the Growth and Stability Pact, creates serious problems for other Member States.
Therefore, we are obliged to do our utmost to encourage serious observation of the rules that were agreed upon so as to guarantee stability within the Member States, both financially and physically.
The Union must emerge from the crisis in a way that is sustainable, guaranteeing robust growth and responsible budgets, but also employment objectives.
Curiously, the summit between France and Germany the day before yesterday also opened the door to a new hope: the possibility of revising our frameworks and treaties on economic governance.
I know that this is an issue that scared the Member States a little.
I sincerely believe, however, that this agreement between France and Germany opens up the opportunity for the Feio report, which we will adopt later - as proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - to consider the need to adapt our constitutional framework to governance that is not only a stability pact.
For the European Union, these adaptations consist of putting our respective national and EU public finances in order and protecting our currency, the euro, by consolidating it internally and defending its value against the other major currencies.
I call on President Van Rompuy to heed this message.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe must make its voice heard in the debate on relative currency values, and the European Council must establish our position on the subject next week, before the Seoul G20 summit.
Europe must join with its partners, in particular, the United States, in reminding the emerging countries of their responsibilities.
Currency dumping and the social consequences it entails must no longer be allowed.
Europe has a message to deliver on each of these subjects, but this message will only be credible if we put in place effective internal, Community-wide instruments to govern and manage our public finances.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to influence global governance and will not really have a place on the international stage unless we can make the often unpopular effort to clean up our finances and unless we stick to our priorities of combating climate change and development policy. (Applause) Mr President, I would like to quote a passage from the statement made by the Heads of State or Government at the G20 summit in Pittsburgh held on 24-25 September 2009 - in other words, a year ago.
I presume that a similar passage will be written again this year at the next summit, and also at all the other summits.
The description is correct, but what is being created is a philosophy at European level - in the European Council - that says that unilateral cuts in public services through budget reductions are a cure-all for stabilising our continent, rather than giving consideration to the fact that investment that stimulates growth is a basic prerequisite for creating more jobs and, through greater economic growth, bolstering state revenues - as is so urgently needed to consolidate state budgets and enable states to perform their duties.
What we are seeing in Europe is that as a result of a more or less black-and-white Manichaean process under which all expenditure is bad and all cuts are good, we find ourselves in a situation in which the countries worst affected by the crisis - Ireland and Greece - are in recession or have zero growth.
It is all the more dramatic when those who were at the source of the crisis, who caused the crisis - the financial sector, those who speculated with wild abandon - have not been held accountable by being made to contribute to state revenues through measures such as a financial transaction tax.
This is an injustice that is particularly dramatic because the lack of action on the part of the Heads of State or Government - the fact that they are leading us in the wrong direction of social imbalance - is continually being reinforced.
The people in revolt on the streets are right in that social imbalance in Europe is not being fought against, but rather is being intensified further by incorrect policies.
That is why we insist on the financial transaction tax.
The report by Mrs Berès and the report by my colleague, Mrs Podimata, will show us whether this House is prepared to say: 'We know that it will not be easy, but we insist that the European Union makes a start at levying taxes transnationally on the financial sector if it cannot be taxed at national level'.
That is the first thing to do, but things are not that far advanced, I think.
What we need now is to make an urgent deal in the European Council on economic governance and on strengthening the Stability Pact.
It started in December 2009, and it is now time to arrive at a conclusion, an agreement, on this.
I have to say that an agreement between France and Germany can often be helpful for Council business, but that this time, on the contrary, it is not.
We should, therefore, perhaps be speaking not of the Deauville deal but rather of the Franco-German casino compromise, because a casino compromise is what it is.
Under this proposal, Member States are allowed to go on playing with the euro and the euro area.
If you have enough support in the Council, go for it.
The first part of the Deauville deal simply weakens not just the task force proposal but, above all, the Commission package.
And this comes at precisely the time when Mr Trichet, the President of the European Central Bank, is asking for bolder solutions, for bolder proposals, even bolder than the initial proposals by the Commission.
Let us stick to the good proposals from the Commission and carry out our necessary legislative task.
I think Parliament and the Commission need to speak to each other frankly now, because the Council's policy - Mr Verhofstadt is right on this point - and that of its Franco-German board of directors is anti-European Union.
Their policy does not reflect the essence of the EU, and our role today is to go beyond the differences that pit us against each other - Mr Daul is right on this point - and to save the European Union and the Community method.
A 0.01% tax on financial transactions would be worth EUR 80 billion.
Secondly, Mr Barroso, about the deficits: in my opinion, there are deficits and then there are deficits.
Therefore, what we need to do, and I am asking this of the liberals also, is not simply to talk about 'stability, stability', but also to differentiate between what we should be doing and what we should no longer be doing; not simply to talk about a 'deficit', but to say, 'this is productive', or 'this is not productive'.
If we agree, though this will be difficult, if we manage to come to an agreement, we will be in a position to oppose the Council's constant manipulations.
The problem today is that many governments want to reduce the European policy aspect, whereas our role is to defend and to increase the European policy aspect, because without it, we will not be able to get ourselves out of this.
For 18 years of my life, I lived in a country of real socialism, where Party congress after Party congress kept setting new economic targets and the citizens of my country - and the same goes for other countries of real socialism - were told by party congresses that things would get better, and how they should get better.
What is also needed here is solidarity, however.
In the Franco-German proposal, I see the real danger of ending up in a situation where the stronger countries will have greater leeway, and where Greece will be unable to go beyond certain limits.
In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say that I know that you stand guard over this European solidarity.
The latest decision of the European Commission on the gas agreement between Poland and Russia - for which I would like to thank you - is a fine example of how the Community aspect is something that works, and which works in the interests of countries like Poland.
If we have a common European market but we still have to pay roaming bills, it shows quite clearly that we still have a long way to go before we achieve our aim of economic integration.
I think we should be doing the opposite: improving working wages, a new fiscal approach to help support these and a tax on financial transactions, improving social welfare, protecting public services and a bold employment policy.
You now do everything you can on the world stage and within the EU to acquire all the attributes of statehood.
And what an expensive club it is becoming.
Just two years ago, Britain's net contribution was GBP 3 billion a year.
This year, it is GBP 6 billion.
Next year, it will be GBP 8 billion.
The year after that, it is due to be GBP 10 billion and now, we hear that you want to take away the British rebate.
The taxpayers of Britain, realising all of this, seeing your direct tax, will simply conclude that we cannot afford the European Union.
But I do see a ray of hope: the Deauville deal between Merkel and Sarkozy, the thing that you are all so terrified of today.
Let us have a new European treaty and let us put it to a referendum in lots of countries, particularly in Britain, and the British people will conclude that this is a very bad deal for Britain.
I have certainly not been elected by you, but I have been elected by this Parliament. (Applause) I was elected by this Parliament in a secret ballot, and you belong to this Parliament.
We want a European answer to the nationalism and the vetoes that have been built into most European regulations.
We are doing so with the report in response to the crisis.
We are doing so with the Feio report and we are doing so with our daily legislative work.
We need to find the answers.
Let us break through to the next step in integration - the creation of an economic union, the creation of a social union, the creation of a defence and security union, and let us make the internal market the home market of all our citizens.
It contains proposals for crisis resolution and budgetary discipline: in other words, only part of the picture.
I hope all of the institutions will realise that the work of the European Parliament on the Commission's legislative proposals will now need to be conducted in a fully democratic process with the Council.
The task force said that its aim was to achieve a quantum leap in terms of more effective economic governance.
It will inevitably lead to distorted economic policies which take insufficient account of other worthwhile policy objectives for the conduct of macro-economic policy, and by that I mean growth, investment and employment.
I think we need three main changes there: the excessive balances procedure has to be broad enough to cover labour markets, including unemployment levels, and therefore the Employment Council needs to be included wherever relevant; the qualitative assessment of public debt levels and developments in the corrective arm of the Stability and Growth Pact should pay full attention to levels and developments in public investment as well; and the linkage with 2020 throughout the new system needs to be explicit and operationalised as fully as possible.
On governance, I would mention only two points at this early stage.
Finally, the European Parliament needs to be fully involved throughout the process in order to ensure the highest level of democratic legitimacy.
Unfortunately, the last few days have been a disappointment.
This causes us concern.
I would like to thank unreservedly Mrs Berès and my colleagues in the Special Committee on Financial, Economic and Social Crisis, who have shown that we in the European Parliament can reach across the party boundaries and find common solutions in the interests of Europe.
It is important in this case that it is done at a global level.
In this regard, we would like to see a wording that includes all 27 Member States.
I would therefore like to present an oral amendment to the Feio report which I hope that Parliament will be able to support.
What we need today is for the Commission - and it is your role to do this, we are trying to do it and it is your role to do it also - to propose an overall package: something in the spirit of the Monti report that is also along the lines of what Michel Barnier has been trying to do in the context of the internal market.
I am sure that if you do that, you will have a very large majority in the European Parliament to support the initiative.
It is now time that you did so. (Applause) (LV) Thank you, Mr President, Mr Barroso (who has left the Chamber).
These declarations also demonstrate impatience, arrogance and aggression towards the response of the workers and populations hurt by their neoliberal and anti-society policies - the Stability and Growth Pact and competition policy - in Greece, France, Spain or Portugal, where there is already a general strike planned for 24 November.
It is time for a break with these policies so that we can have a truly social Europe: a Europe of progress and development. (LT) I would like to say a few words about the work of the Special Crisis Committee.
This needs to be changed, and from now on, good decisions must be taken. (NL) Mr President, despite some positive signals, the risk of the crisis worsening has not gone away.
Mr President, the task force has yet to deliver any concrete results but, as this House's rapporteur for the Stability and Growth Pact, I would like to tell Commissioner Rehn: we are able to work quickly.
I would also like to sound a note of warning against the change in the treaty which has been requested, because that could be a decoy which will only force us to put off the necessary measures until another day.
Parliament now has a new colegislative role in the Stability and Growth Pact and it will take full advantage of that role in order to bring about a robust economic union, with a robust Stability and Growth Pact. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has had a very great impact on society in all European countries.
We must therefore accept that it will be essential to face up to the most acute social aspect of this crisis, which was born out of the financial system but which has rapidly spread into economic and social realms.
The best way to combat a crisis, however, is through policies of growth.
The Union budget is not enough.
This path leads to the creation of Eurobonds and a tax on financial transactions.
This is why the solutions we have indicated - and I hope that Parliament will approve their formulation - are important as well as innovative. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the height of the financial crisis, the G20 countries promised joint action to stabilise the financial markets.
We need to intensify our integration, we need to harmonise our economic and budgetary policies more, we need European infrastructure projects in the areas of energy, transport and telecommunications.
We need a functioning internal market and labour market, and we need the resources required in order to achieve the demanding growth targets set out in the EU 2020 strategy.
The debt crisis in Europe clearly demonstrates that stability and confidence are not achievable without discipline.
The proposals made by Commissioner Rehn and by Mr Van Rompuy's task force are intended to ensure that the Member States act in a disciplined manner.
Whether it is the behaviour of our banks or the behaviour of Member States' treasury departments, we need to ensure a common high standard of behaviour with respect to adhering to an agreed set of rules.
We need to ensure that, in the search for growth opportunities by the EU, the financing tools used by the EU and the individual Member States are of the highest calibre and as transparent as possible.
To leverage the EU budget in the issuance of project bonds by the EIB needs to be subject to intense scrutiny.
As we all know, complex financial instruments and leverage bring their own risk.
Our proposal was inspired by today's demonstrations in France, by the demonstrations by workers in Germany, whose incomes are being cut so that Siemens has money for bribes, by the demonstrations by workers in Greece, who are currently being treated like guinea pigs, a text, in other words, which has ended up in a form which we cannot accept. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should have listened to the advice of the Nobel laureate, Maurice Allais, who called for a clear separation between business banks, credit banks and speculative banks, in accordance with the principles of the Glass-Steagall Act, which is not discussed in this report.
However, what are the banks doing in the midst of this economic and financial crisis?
We believe that there is only one way to combat speculation effectively: transactions carried out at the same time as negotiations are paid for, and only in cash.
Mrs Merkel dared to say it and she was shouted down.
Today, we have a clear message from the European Parliament in the Berès report and the Feio report.
We need to strengthen the strategy for growth, so that in this environment, it is sustainable and socially responsible, and we need better governance mechanisms for EU 2020.
To conclude, we need a Commission initiative.
We need the Commission to act in the interests of European citizens, instead of a number of task forces. (DE) Mr President, Mr Chastel, Commissioner, this could actually have been a time of great answers, but in hindsight, it does not look like it.
I also congratulate the Council.
However, we then need to discuss the substance.
This would be a clear improvement of the institutional framework for European economic governance.
I know that this is a very delicate issue for some countries, but we will have to deal with it in the coming years.
The European treasury would improve the coordination of the stimulus policies implemented by Member States.
A European common treasury collecting some taxes at European level would allow the reduction of national transfers to the EU.
The sticking point in this discussion is the lack of political will or, to be more precise, the lack of political will on the part of Germany.
In my opinion, Germany should lead now and move towards a common European treasury. (CS) If you have been listening to this debate here from early on, then I think that all those who say that the European Union is at a crossroads are correct.
It is a shame that no one has yet said that the European Union and the European Commission should start reducing their programmes, reducing the number of its often controversial agencies and reforming the common agricultural policy. (DE) Mr President, economic governance as it is being developed here focuses solely on savings and competition policy.
Yet this is clearly a central problem, both in the euro area and in the European Union as a whole.
German competition policy is being conducted to the detriment of internal demand in Germany.
We will be equally active, but without concessions.
Traditional debt and deficit targets have been breached by many countries, but would not have warned us about the crisis pending in Spain or Ireland.
It is important to understand the past and the causes of the crisis, and I think the Union has done its homework on that, but today, the focus must be on the future.
The global and European economic governance we build is for tomorrow, so it is not just a question of addressing this crisis.
When fixing Europe, we are doing so against the backdrop of a world which is very different today from 2008.
The G20 was united in favour of the fiscal rescue two years ago, but its unanimity was driven by fear.
The common global good does not exist.
However, the role of currencies and exchange rates as global adjustment mechanisms has skyrocketed.
A new global monetary system is emerging at an unprecedented speed, and the number of players is increasing.
If we achieve this, the question is whether Europe will be able to play its role in this collective action.
Earlier on, the President-in-Office of the Council stressed that globalisation means we have to act at European level and at international level.
What is more, this so-called global governance that the G20 is supposed to embody has absolutely no basis in international law and operates outside the United Nations system.
The G20 is self-proclaimed; it operates without written rules and is a club of rich nations which have surrounded themselves with a few so-called emerging countries, including such exemplary democracies as Saudi Arabia.
Earlier, Martin Schulz quoted an extract from one of these hollow declarations by the G20.
We could do the same with the statements published after our European summits.
Guy Verhofstadt spoke just now about casino games.
In fact, there are more than 20 million SMEs in the European Union.
The first is the need to strengthen the social market economy, avoiding restrictions to competition and ensuring access to credit for SMEs.
Then there is the awarding of fiscal incentives and even subsidies to SMEs in order to maintain and create jobs.
That is a big disappointment, especially as his conclusion was 'more Europe'. (BG) In the report from the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis we call, above all, for a European response, strong political and intellectual leadership with a European dimension, far-reaching integration and completion of the single European market for the benefit of European citizens.
The cohesion policy must be one of the basic pillars of our economic policy.
A new definition must be coined for small and medium-sized enterprises which will also provide opportunities both for a more targeted policy supporting entrepreneurship and for proper action to be taken to reduce the administrative burden and red tape.
I sincerely hope that our proposals and recommendations will be reflected in concrete actions taken by the European Commission and mainly by Member States because we have no time to lose.
We owe our citizens a suitable, rapid response so that we can emerge from the crisis more quickly and strongly. (BG) The economic recession hit Member States with varying degrees of severity.
This is why automatically imposing sanctions will not, in itself, yield positive results.
The solution is clear.
This means more EU-wide policy, more instruments for European institutions, a higher budget and greater budgetary independence for the European Union, including through increasing the proportion of its own revenue. (FR) Mr President, the crisis is far from over and the unrest in countries such as France is a witness to this.
This is what they want from us. (DE) Mr President, without wishing to appear presumptuous, listening to the debate here this morning, I think we can conclude that some amount of work has been done in recent months.
Certainly, the text could have been worded somewhat more concisely and succinctly at some points, but we should see the report for what it is - an interim answer.
We need to consider how and where the discussions of the Crisis Committee can be supported in the forthcoming debates by the legislative committees. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the various speeches this morning very carefully but I believe we could do with shedding a little more light to distinguish between instruments, that I incidentally consider to be well-defined and aligned, and strategy and our internal unity as the European Union.
As far as instruments are concerned, I believe that decisive progress has been made and that we are therefore going in the right direction.
In other words: are we all following the same approach?
I am fully in agreement when we speak of stability and sacrifices but if we do not aim for growth at the same time by creating employment - the crucial topic during this period - I believe that we will not have done a good job.
Allow me also to say that it would be an unpardonable error to seek to camouflage the obvious anarchy between Member States behind the concept of subsidiarity, which is referred to all too often and usually inappropriately. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, members of the Council, in the last two years, very many people in the European Union have suffered, suffered directly as a result of the crisis.
No small number of people in my own country, Latvia, have also suffered.
A 20% reduction in economic turnover, and an equally steep increase in unemployment.
In order to restore our public finances, the people of my country, Latvians, have patiently suffered a reduction in salaries of more than 30%, coupled with tax increases.
So why my indignation?
There are high levels of growth in other parts of the world, but not in Europe and not in the US.
We need to kick-start growth but, in doing so, we need to have stability in public finances.
That is why I find it worrying - adding to what has already been said by previous speakers - that some European leaders are now talking about more lax and flexible rules regarding the Stability Pact, and opting for a change to the treaty.
We need to ensure that budget deficits are reduced, in confidence and in good order, at the same time as we are reforming in order to open ourselves up for more economic growth - opening up European borders and opening up for more competition.
That is the way ahead and what we should stand up for in the G20.
That is also the aim for the European agenda. (EL) Mr President, the Berès report on the economic crisis, which is the subject of one of our debates today, notes in paragraph 32 that some Member States, obviously implying my country, Greece, do not currently have opportunities to create real recovery plans and that all the options until the year 2012 are limited to public expenditure cuts, tax increases and debt reduction.
There were two statements made here this morning that I want to focus on.
I think it is time for the European Union to get tough, particularly with the G20 countries and the United Nations.
Secondly, I want to say that, within Europe, we not only need to speak with one voice but also act as one body; the self-appointed board of governors which was mentioned here this morning cannot be allowed to continue.
However, I believe that the key issue is persisting with measures aimed at improved coordination and increased transparency of political strategies concerning the economies of the Member States.
I would like to underline the importance of creating a good framework for budgetary cooperation at EU and Member State level, including the alignment of spending categories of the national budgets with those of the EU budget.
Firstly, too great an emphasis is placed on the criterion of public debt within national economies when other indicators are equally important.
This is because, ladies and gentlemen, in all these numbers, we are forgetting about the people who did not cause the crisis; we are forgetting about unemployment and the worsening social situation.
After what we learned from the supervisory package, I think we have seen how Parliament and the Commission can work together in order to get a good result.
I think this is really what we have to do now.
When we look at the deficit and debt procedures, as well as your good proposals on macro-economic imbalances, it is really crucial, in order to have a good deal, for countries with both surpluses and deficits to bear their share in order to get the euro back on track.
I can only say that a majority in this House is ready to support the proposals you are making. (PT) Mr President, as the Franco-German directorate is no longer seated in this Chamber, I will direct my three questions on the recent frenzy of penalties to the Commission and Council.
The first is on the idea of deposits with interest: how on Earth do you rationalise adding one deficit to another deficit in order to combat the deficit?
We have been promised improved economic governance in Europe.
However, the economies of Member States are very different and a single economic prescription will not suit 27 different countries.
The economic crisis started with the activities of the banks, but the response of governments has been to rush to their rescue.
I think that the European Union was a little late in responding to the consequences of the crisis.
For the sake of our security, we must ensure that the European Union can rely on its own strength.
In my opinion, the work of the Special Committee on the Financial, Economic and Social Crisis is still necessary, since the crisis is not yet over and the financial markets have not yet stabilised.
The internal market is one of the indispensable levers of growth, and hence the EU 2020 strategy must focus on long-term investments and employment.
The international economic crisis has limited growth and exacerbated unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
However, we clearly need more Community solidarity and coordination between national recovery plans.
I, too, support the establishment of a common Monetary Fund for the purpose of effective control of European economic governance.
The previous speakers have said everything there is to say on European economic governance, the need to strengthen European economic governance, to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact, and to involve the European Parliament and, of course, also the national parliaments more closely in the process.
I should like quickly to mention two challenges facing our nations and the members of the G20; challenges that must, in my opinion, be tackled during the course of the forthcoming G20 meetings.
As regards these two issues, which pose a genuine threat to global growth and which cause significant imbalances on our planet, I believe that the European Union must unite around common positions, so that it is able to speak with one voice at the forthcoming G20 summits, both the one in Seoul and also at those that follow, and in a more all-embracing manner on the world stage. (RO) The effects of the crisis seem to be far from over at the moment.
This is why I would like to remind you, in this context, of the important role played by the economic and social cohesion policy and, last but not least, of the absolute prerequisite which it represents.
I believe that the solution for this also lies in strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact and particularly its sanctions.
It is restrictive, but we have no choice. (LT) The financial, economic and social crisis has affected every citizen of Europe.
However, the hard times have highlighted even more the fact that the various national economic recovery plans were poorly coordinated and not effective enough.
Furthermore, certain Member States really did not have opportunities to create genuine national economic recovery plans, including measures to stimulate growth and employment, because they reduced public spending even more during the recession and increased taxes in order to reduce national debt.
Unfortunately, in some Member States, this is being done at the expense of ordinary people.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the crisis highlighted very clearly the social inequality between different social groups.
Thus, the European Union must learn the lesson of this crisis and implement the initiatives it adopted in all fields by coordinating joint action with the Member States. (DE) Mr President, scarcely have we half regulated the financial sharks of the stock market monopoly than we are faced with the problem of a global race to devalue currencies which, despite China's slight accommodation today, has not yet been averted.
I should like to reply to two or three of those speeches.
I think that what he said is very important when we come to reform cohesion policy.
This is entirely a question of strategy for our European Union, again at a time when currency wars seem on the verge of breaking out.
Let us use our internal strength to be strong and united in our representations to the outside world.
It is time to move from words to actions.
From now on, following this vote, which I hope will be in favour, Parliament will have its own position on the subject of economic governance.
It will advocate economic governance as a goal for the growth of all 27 Member States of the European Union and better coordination between them, with greater economic and monetary union.
What stands out is the crucial role that this House and the national parliaments must have in this area.
They must have their own vision on the necessary macro-economic supervision of Member States, they must have their own voice regarding how the Europe 2020 strategy is implemented, and they must pay close attention to the issue of reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact.
Parliament has a series of different proposals in relation to the other institutions.
It is therefore essential that the G20, first the ministerial meeting this week, and then the summit in two weeks, is able to pursue effective international policy coordination to rebalance global growth.
All countries must play their part in rebalancing: surplus countries by reinforcing domestic demand, and deficit countries by focusing on export growth.
This is a matter of millions of jobs in the world economy and in the European Union.
The European Union is working for a strong and stable international financial system in which exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals.
We are in the midst of a fundamental reform of our own financial system and we need to keep up the momentum at the G20 as well.
Secondly, the Commission wants the financial sector to play a part in covering the costs of the crisis and that is why the EU - and the Commission - are committed to pushing for a financial transaction tax at global level.
Thirdly, the Commission has, in the meantime, tabled as one option for own resources in the EU budget a proposal that the financial sector should make an equitable contribution at EU level, such as a financial activities tax.
This is our view.
We have proposed a bank levy or stability fee; we have raised the possibility of a financial activities tax as a source for own resources; and thirdly, we are committed to pushing for a financial transaction tax at the global level.
The Commission is in favour of establishing a permanent mechanism for crisis prevention and crisis resolution which must have two sides, two elements, two dimensions.
Such a permanent mechanism must minimise moral hazard and provide incentives for the Member States to pursue a responsible fiscal policy and incentives for investors to pursue responsible lending practices.
We want to work together with you, and we call on the Council and Parliament to deliver the legislative decisions by the summer of next year so that we can have the new system of economic governance in force by next summer, 2011, when we have the next major round of assessment of effective action.
This is really a matter of credibility for the European Union in terms of reinforcing economic governance, and I fully agree with you that it is indeed the Community method that makes the European Union work and deliver.
They embody Parliament's involvement in a subject area as important as this.
The vote will take place today, Wednesday, 20 October 2010.
The crisis in recent years has sorely tried most of the advanced economies.
Recovery is still slow for some countries even today, and the ongoing fragility of financial markets makes global coordination and the choice of appropriate economic and industrial strategies key aspects in combating the financial crisis.
Global supervision should, in fact, promote the stabilisation of solid financial markets and sustain the current recovery, guaranteeing strong growth in demand and employment levels.
The current economic crisis proves that the economic governance model currently used in the EU has not worked sufficiently well, thereby failing to achieve full convergence between Member States.
It is vital for Member States to abide by the regulations and decisions stipulated at European level, especially those relating to the Stability and Growth Pact.
The financial, economic and social crisis has now been raging for two years.
It has resulted in an unemployment rate of more than 10% in the EU and in the risk of a new recession.
The next G20 summit will take place on 11 and 12 November in Seoul, under the Presidency of France.
Establishing the G20 was the brainchild of President Sarkozy, who believes that nowadays, the global economy is no longer regulated by the 8, but by all the major developing countries, too.
This crisis demands that we have genuine economic governance, rules restricting social dumping in developing countries, financial regulation, and a reform of the international monetary system.
To achieve this, Europe must know how to speak with one strong and determined voice.
Such a measure will enable us to kill several birds with one stone: it is an effective instrument against speculation and the revenue will enable us to address government deficits and the funding for pressing social projects (the environment, development aid, infrastructure projects, etc.).
What we have decided on today is a specific intervention and an answer to the financial crisis.
Due to the lack of any global consistency in these regulatory structures, countries responded off their own bat.
The creation of the European Systemic Risk Board and European Financial Supervisory Authorities strengthens financial supervision within the EU.
The EU must stress at the G20 meeting in November the importance of having a supervisory and regulatory system whose actions will include making it compulsory to register financial transactions and instruments.
We have a responsibility to the economy and we must first of all be strong at European Union level to enable us to lead the way globally.
They seem to be ignoring the fact that forging ahead on the path that brought us here can only lead to disgrace.
The real response to the crisis lies in giving value to work and in a fairer distribution of income, namely through taxation, thus benefiting work as opposed to capital.
The crisis, in itself, may serve as a window of opportunity to implement measures which will stimulate economic growth, competitiveness and social progress in Europe by putting citizens at the heart of the European economy.
The European Union must be a strong partner, capable of not only applying its experience in economic and political integration, but of also making a significant contribution to global economic governance.
We need to devise credible and viable economic policies in the medium term and coordinate a macro-economic policy which will be based on a framework for sustained, balanced growth, drawn up by the G20.
A strategy for the EU's economic policies must include the following: an action plan on using the structural reforms to reinforce economic growth and employment, consolidated fiscal reform and increasing economic governance of the EU and euro area.
People in various EU states have experienced the fall-out from the crisis in different ways.
It is essential to pinpoint the mistakes, malpractice and unprofessional conduct of national governments in order to prevent the situation their people find themselves in from getting worse in the future.
With each passing day, the Latvian Government adopts measures relating to the tax system and fiscal policy in general that disadvantage the people and are leading to business liquidations and the emigration of Latvian entrepreneurs.
We have to send a strong signal to national governments that reducing social payments and pensions in a time of crisis is a crime against the population.
We are not giving proper attention to the warning signals from the financial markets, or from people such as President Trichet, who indeed called the Commission proposal a good but inadequate step towards strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact.
Our role today, as the European Parliament, is to defend the European Commission's proposals against the governments of the Member States which have not, apparently, learned any lessons from the crisis.
If the European Council had properly adhered to the provisions of the pact, the scale of the European crisis in public finances would have been much smaller.
If, today, we allow governments and, in particular, the governments of Germany and France, to water down the Commission's proposals, the crisis will deepen, and we will have to wonder whether the entire common currency project has any point in its current form, and whether we will inadvertently prove that the euro was a failed experiment.
We must force all Member States to conduct responsible budgetary policies, painful though it may be.
We must look beyond and consider the past in order to implement the structural changes that will make our small and medium-sized enterprises more competitive and able to face up to the greater pressure that will come from a globalised environment.
In doing this, we must also guarantee employment for a good proportion of the more vulnerable part of our workforce and their families.
The European Union needs new economic governance that will ensure the stability and rigour of national public finances.
A financial and economic crisis such as the one we are currently experiencing must never happen again.
In the past, some Member States, particularly France and Germany, were too hesitant at introducing stricter regulation.
This also applies to sanction mechanisms, which are still being blocked by some Member States.
Under the new rules of the internal financial market, however, it is high time that the currency union were strengthened and, at the same time, public debt, in particular, reduced in order to secure the future of the European economic area.
The national parliaments, in particular, need to be more intensively involved in this process in order to Europeanise the debate in the Member States.
Since the financial crisis of 2008, the G20 Heads of State or Government have been meeting regularly every six months to discuss economic and financial issues and to bolster cooperation in order to achieve stable and sustainable growth for the world economy for the benefit of all.
However, I believe that, in order to find a sustainable and appropriate response to the financial, economic or social problems of the crisis, we need a broader-based approach and a more balanced perspective on these problems.
The Finance Ministers of the Member States are not in a position to evaluate the situation on the labour market and to come up with answers to the pressing labour and social policy issues that give due consideration to the needs of workers or the people in general.
I therefore call for regular meetings of the Ministers for Employment and Social Affairs in the G20.
Moreover, I call on the EU and those Member States that are also members of the G20 to develop this idea further and to cooperate more closely with one another in the field of employment and social policy and to aim for a more balanced approach at summit level.
We cannot allow competition to undermine the protection of workers' rights.
Furthermore, the European Union needs an eco-efficient industrial policy which will guarantee the link between innovative capacity and the EU's production units, thereby helping create jobs across the whole EU and maintain its global competitiveness.
This is why the European Council should include on its agenda, during its meeting on 28 and 29 October, future industrial policy and EU energy security, as well as proposals on how to reduce the impact of climate and demographic change. (PL) Yesterday, in Łódź, Poland, an employee of a European Parliament constituency office was murdered at work.
Mr President, I find such behaviour detrimental to the dignity of this Parliament and I would ask that you think twice about this and look into how we can keep the corridors clear.
I ask you to leave this demonstration until the vote, which will be in about 40 minutes' time.
