2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, you will adopt the resolution on the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
As you know, in its conclusions of 14 December 2010, the Council reaffirmed its unanimous commitment to the European Union perspective of the Western Balkan countries.
The ultimate goal of this perspective is the membership of these countries in the European Union.
I believe that this is a loss, not only for the candidate, but also for the EU.
The implementation of the Ohrid Framework Agreement continues to constitute a fundamental element of democracy and the rule of law in the country.
There is some success to report in this respect as well, for example, in the implementation of the Act on languages.
In its conclusions of December 2010, the Council stated that it was ready to come back to this issue during the term of the Hungarian Presidency, but unfortunately, in the absence of any new relevant developments, the Presidency has been unable to initiate this step as yet.
Nevertheless, the political actors in a democratic society have a special, exceptional responsibility, for example, in resolving differences of opinion through democratic means, namely, dialogue and compromise.
I had a very good meeting with Prime Minister Gruevski in Brussels on 24 March.
It is important that Skopje plays an active part.
Both parties have repeated their commitment to finding a solution.
I hope that they are able to capitalise on these efforts this year.
In 2011, new impetus may be given to the enlargement process in the entire Western Balkans region.
A greater number and more effective measures and legislation are required against corruption, as well as reforms to the judicial system and public administration.
I think that the report encourages the reforms, but also requires further measures still, which is natural when we see that there are genuine problems in a country which will possibly be a member of the European Union.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, we have quite a balanced and objective report before us and I wish to thank all the colleagues who contributed to it.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005 and now, for the second time, the Commission has recommended that negotiations be opened.
Therefore, I hope that the early elections called for June 2011 will contribute to resolving the situation.
I hope that the main issue which has been holding the country back from starting negotiations will be resolved soon.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, this year, we celebrate 30 years since your country, Greece, became a member of the EU.
Also, Commissioner, I believe that the accession procedure should be carried out with respect for international law and international procedures, in this case, with respect and support for the procedure to find a commonly acceptable solution to the question of the name, under the aegis of the UN.
This is an important issue and should be resolved before accession negotiations commence.
In a letter to the President of the House dated 22 March, I asked for the report not to be put to the vote until such time as the results of enquiries had been released following the opening of the conciliation procedure.
I therefore call on every Member to abstain in this vote, in order to maintain the integrity and credibility of the House.
Greece cannot therefore be condemned for exercising its absolute right under the Treaties in the Council. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Mr Füle, I was one of the first or perhaps the first rapporteur on Macedonia in this House and I am watching with regret how the situation has and has not developed.
This would allow the borders in this part of Europe to turn from a sign of division to a sign of unity, as in the case here, for example, between France and Germany.
Responsibility for the European future of this country is in its hands and it is being called upon to assume its responsibilities. (SV) Mr President, as I only have one minute, I will just mention one point.
There will then be numerous opportunities to block the country if Greece should so wish, but to block the country now in this situation, and with the particular geographical location of this country, is totally irresponsible.
I would like to appeal to the Members from Greece, however, to show goodwill and support not only this report, but also the amendment, which reinstates the reference to Macedonian in the text as one of the official languages. (HU) Mr President, the achievements made by Macedonia in relation to European integration were already greatly appreciated by the country report of February last year.
And as far as the name is concerned, I must say that as a Central European, a Hungarian, I find this dispute between Greece and Macedonia exceedingly absurd.
I therefore agree with the Commission's view that the position of the ombudsman must be strengthened.
As we all know, this is an issue which does not apply only to Macedonia.
I can assure you that they will bring about precisely the opposite: we will give the Gruevski government an incentive for even greater intransigence, thereby prolonging the impasse in negotiations on the name and, as a result, further freezing this country's accession prospects.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as acknowledged in the draft resolution we are discussing today, and in the Commission progress report of November 2010, the country has sufficiently met the political criteria.
As the discussion has shown, we all agree on this important point.
As I have said already, we are at a critical juncture with the country.
Currently, all attention is focused on the ongoing case before the International Court of Justice, where the arguments put forward orally were heard between 21 and 30 March.
As I have mentioned, the reason for this is not only the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, but the entire region, the courtyard of the European Union, for which the time has come to no longer be a courtyard but an integral part of the EU.
The EU should therefore play a more determined role in solving it, perhaps even a decisive role.
The Commission should submit relevant alternative proposals in this direction.
Through our lengthy passivity, we have all contributed to the uncertain fate of the entire country, yet this is a country that is still - even after so many years - reporting to the EU.
