Harmonisation of the law in this field will allow us to ensure a high level of awareness among European patients and will help to even out differences in the health situation in all Member States.
In addition, making legislation more detailed, and in particular the obligation to ensure that patients have access to information, will allow us to prevent pharmaceutical companies from unfairly promoting their own products.
It is also necessary to introduce particular legislation concerning pharmaceutical agents and to enforce its implementation effectively in all Member States.
The Danish Liberals have chosen to vote in favour of the directive concerning information on medicinal products subject to medical prescription.
It is important for the EU's citizens to have access to sound information on these medicinal products, and we therefore think that this is a good report that puts the patient first.
That is not because we are not in favour of EU citizens having access to sound information on these medicinal products subject to medical prescription, but because parts of the proposal contravene a number of national constitutions.
Even before the medicinal products package was presented, several countries had already made the Commission aware of the fact that there is a legal problem in relation to their national constitutions.
Prior checking by the authorities of information that is disseminated to the general public contravenes the definition of freedom of expression in several countries.
Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of the European Medicines Agency checking certain kinds of information before it is disseminated to the general public.
However, we expect both the Council and the Commission to seek ways to solve this problem before the second reading, and therefore we hope that we will then be able to vote in favour of the regulation itself. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal voted on today, which I supported, outlines the importance of pharmaceutical industries in their delicate role as sources of non-promotional information on their products.
Indeed, this vote emphasises the importance of how information on medicinal products must also be available on the Internet or in hard copy, following specific rules which are the same in all Member States.
Until recently many of them combined information on the medicine with their own advertising.
I am in favour of patients having the best, and most up-to-date information, which is approved at the same time as a new medicine is approved, for example, and I believe we have made a major contribution to this.
I am pleased that, by adopting this report, we have actually reduced the disparity between EU countries that are less developed in this area, and I am pleased that doctor-patient relationships have not been impaired in any way.
If we are talking specifically about medicines and researched data on what the drugs contain, it is also very important for patient safety.
This information must be based on researched data, and not on fantasy or the ways and means of advertising.
Such legislation, which is uptodate and good for patient safety, is needed more generally in the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of information about prescription-only medicinal products is a sensitive subject because it has an important effect on the protection of the right to health and welfare of all citizens.
The European Commission sent us a proposal on the revision of the directive that risked opening a loophole in the legislation, which would have allowed pharmaceutical companies to exploit an unclear distinction between the definitions of information and advertising to promote their prescription-only medicinal products, to the detriment of the people.
So why did the European Union criminalise an activity harmlessly pursued by some 20 million Europeans?
Mr Schulz himself said that our behaviour put him in mind of Adolf Hitler.
I do not propose to allow you to speak, Mr Hannan, because if I allow you then everybody will want to have a say on this sensitive and important question, so I am sorry.
Even if we accepted the objection that the legislation on hazardous materials and the studies are now 10 years old, and may therefore be outdated in some aspects, it is clear from the earlier research that PVC can be recycled and that there might be a negative impact on the environment if it was replaced with alternative materials.
This argument totally ignores the fact that the burning of any kind of waste is undesirable. (LT) Mr President, sooner or later, electronic equipment becomes waste which, unfortunately, still consists of certain hazardous substances.
We must not be prejudiced against substances that are currently only being tested, and which may in future bring breakthroughs in the world of technology and electronics. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Evans on the recast of the directive because I really regret the fact that in the compromise text, which was adopted due to strong pressure from industrial lobbies, all references to PVC and halogenated fire retardants have disappeared, even though all the studies carried out by the Commission have demonstrated since as far back as 2000 that the disposal of these substances poses serious risks for human health and the environment.
I therefore appreciated the fact that the inter-institutional team charged the Commission with reviewing the original list of hazardous substances rather than immediately banning them, which would have a negative impact on SMEs and on the social and economic situation of the EU. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it represents the outcome of extremely difficult negotiations between the European Commission and several third countries, including Canada, Japan, the United States, Australia and Mexico.
The fight against counterfeiting must be one of our priorities and an objective of all national and international policies.
Consequently, cooperation between Member States is essential in order to achieve effective results.
The agreement reached will definitely not be able to resolve the complex situation on international markets, but it represents a step in the right direction.
In conclusion, I urge the European Commission to continue to keep Parliament fully and punctually informed regarding all the future initiatives it intends to adopt on this matter. (SK) Mr President, in the area of intellectual property rights protection, I believe that special attention should be paid to ensuring the right to health, which is closely connected to the actual right to life.
In particular, products in the lower and middle price brackets are also counterfeited.
T-shirts, toys and protective clothing are counterfeited, as well as intellectual property.
In this case, it is not only a question of financial interests, but also of safety at work, environmental protection and protection of health, as well as social standards.
The decisions made on this matter, today, slightly improve the situation. (CS) Mr President, I supported the joint resolution on ACTA, even though I voted differently to my political group, because I too believe that we must encourage the Commission to draw up studies which will remove the final question marks over the impact of ACTA on European citizens, and confront the information gap from the past caused by an unwillingness to provide the negotiated texts.
I voted in favour of this amendment to the EU budget, as it allows this aid to be paid to our Irish friends.
This vote symbolises European solidarity in the face of natural disasters.
Indeed, our country will soon receive substantial financial aid to deal with the consequences of storm Xynthia in February 2010.
The floods that took place in November 2009 seriously affected Ireland and caused severe damage estimated at more than EUR 520 million.
The amending budget provides for the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund to cover the losses suffered, to a total of EUR 13 022 500 in commitment and payment appropriations.
On 24 September 2010, the European Commission put forward a proposal on a decision by the European Parliament and the Council relating to the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund, on the basis of the provisions of item 26 of the interinstitutional agreement (IIA) of 17 May 2006.
This was the first proposal for mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund within the 2010 financial period.
The IIA allows for mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund up to a maximum annual limit of EUR 1 billion.
The Commission proposes the mobilisation of EUR 13 022 500 of the maximum limit of EUR 1 billion in commitment and payment appropriations relating to the effects of the flooding in Ireland.
The legal requirements having been fulfilled, I agree with this amending budget.
We voted in favour of the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for Ireland, following the floods that hit that country last November.
I voted to approve draft amending budget No 8/2010 because it is essential if we are to allocate EUR 13 022 500 for the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund in favour of Ireland, with reference to the heavy rainfall that caused serious flooding in November 2009.
No amount has yet been allocated in 2010 for previous applications, and so the entire sum of EUR 1 billion is still available.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal to transfer EUR 13 022 500 from the ESF to a budget line to give support to Ireland following the severe flooding it suffered in November 2009.
The floods in Ireland during November 2009 caused severe damage, particularly to the agricultural sector, homes and businesses, the road network and other infrastructure.
I voted in favour, as I consider that every EU nation must feel itself to be part of the system of a united European Union.
The amount must be made specific and justifiable.
EUR 1 billion per year is available to the European Solidarity Fund.
I am voting in favour of the report, as there has not yet been a mobilisation of the Fund this year and the budget really ought to be used in a beneficial way.
I voted in favour of this report.
This is the reason why this allocation is not only justified and well founded but practically a duty.
Given that draft amending budget No 8/2010 to the general budget for 2010 covers mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund in the sum of EUR 13 022 500 in commitment and payment appropriations, following the floods that wreaked havoc in Ireland, and the corresponding reduction in payment appropriations of EUR 13 022 500 from line 04 02 01 - Completion of European Social Fund (ESF) - Objective No 1 (2000-2006), I voted in favour of agreeing with the Council's position on draft amending budget No 8/2010.
I voted in favour and agree with the approval of draft amending budget No 8/2010, which grants aid amounts to the Solidarity Fund and the European Union Solidarity Fund - Member States, and redeploys EUR 13 022 500 in payment appropriations from policy area 4 'Employment and Social Affairs'.
I welcome this draft amending budget, which provides for the mobilisation of the European Solidarity Fund (ESF) in the sum of EUR 13 022 500 in commitment and payment appropriations, in order to assist Ireland following the floods that occurred during November 2009, which caused substantial losses to the agricultural and business sectors and to infrastructure, particularly the road and water supply networks, as well as in residential areas, amounting to a total of over EUR 520 million.
The European Commission proposed on 24 September 2010 a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund, which is based on the provisions of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
It is important to note that the objective of the Fund is not the compensation for private damage but to repair infrastructure and it is a tool of refinancing.
in writing. - (LT) The European Commission is initiating discussions on a review of the European Neighbourhood Policy in order to define the future relations of the EU and its southern and eastern neighbours.
I supported this report which lays down the general principles for the participation of the Republic of Moldova in Community programmes and agencies.
I feel that the conclusion of the Protocol would permit the gradual opening of or reinforced participation in certain Community programmes for Moldova, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and to reinforce political relations.
The gradual opening up of the EU's programmes and agencies to the countries belonging to the European Neighbourhood Policy will encourage these countries in their efforts to carry out reform and modernisation.
This will help promote cooperation with the EU in important areas such as customs, transport or competitiveness.
I also welcome the Council's intention to continue to grant macro-financial assistance to the Republic of Moldova and to provide expert advice to the government in Chişinău.
As the progress report compiled by the European Commission has also highlighted, the Republic of Moldova has made significant efforts to implement efficiently the structural reforms, in line with EU recommendations.
Furthermore, the European integration platform of the current administration has contributed to unprecedented dynamic development in relations with the EU.
Therefore, increasing the Republic of Moldova's involvement in Community programmes and agencies is a natural step in the process of alignment with European standards.
I voted in favour of concluding the protocol which will enable the Republic of Moldova to have greater involvement in certain Community programmes, offering the opportunity to promote cooperation in the fields of culture, education, media, science and technology, as well as consolidate political relations through the Eastern Partnership and speed up negotiations on the new Association Agreement.
It is crucial for the Republic of Moldova to continue with the implementation of the ENP Action Plan and the reforms it has set out in the document 'Rethink Moldova'.
I welcome the Republic of Moldova's involvement in certain Community programmes, helping to promote cooperation in the fields of culture, education, media, science and technology, as well as consolidate political relations through the Eastern Partnership and speed up negotiations on the new Association Agreement.
It is therefore worthy of particular support and attention by the European Union.
Moldovan involvement in EU programmes is an important step along that path.
On 18 June 2007, the Council issued guidelines to the Commission on negotiating framework agreements relating to the general principles of participation in Union programmes with thirteen neighbouring countries.
Negotiations with the Republic of Moldova began in March 2008.
The Republic of Moldova will contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates.
The signing of the Protocol will enable Moldova to open up gradually or to increase its participation in certain Union programmes, to the extent that it will provide an opportunity to promote greater cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, as well as strengthening political relations through the Eastern Partnership and supporting negotiations for a new association agreement.
The EC-Moldova Partnership and Cooperation Agreement was signed on 28 November 1994, and since 2004 Moldova has been covered by the European Neighbourhood Policy.
On 18 June 2007, the Council issued guidelines to the Commission on negotiating framework agreements on the general principles of participation in EU programmes with 13 neighbouring countries, and, in March 2008, negotiations began with the Republic of Moldova.
The protocol includes a framework agreement on the general principles governing the Republic of Moldova's participation in EU programmes and agencies.
in writing. - I have always sustained and encouraged the European goals of the Republic of Moldova.
Participation in certain Community programmes for Moldova will encourage this neighbour country to implement its reforms, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, in addition to the reinforcing of political relations through the Eastern Partnership and the negotiation of the new Association Agreement.
I endorse the recommendation of Graham Watson, because it promotes Moldova's participation in several European Community programmes and agencies, to support the neighbouring country's efforts to reform and modernise.
The Republic of Moldova is one of the poorest countries of Europe.
Therefore, the European Union should help Moldova and bring about an improvement in the country's situation in terms of stability, security and prosperity.
A European policy could solve the constitutional problem being faced by the Republic of Moldova, and this could, in turn, result in further beneficial changes.
The European Union should support such countries with even greater commitment, and so a strengthening of cooperation with the Republic of Moldova is most definitely justified.
in writing. - The conclusion of this Protocol would permit reinforced cooperation on certain programmes with Moldova.
The main measure for promoting reforms, modernising and facilitating transition in the countries immediately neighbouring the European Union, including the Republic of Moldova, is to open up gradually certain Community programmes, institutions and agencies to participation from European Neighbourhood Policy partner countries.
I voted for this report as I think that the European Union must support the Republic of Moldova and facilitate its access to certain Community programmes.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EC and Moldova.
In conditions such as these, to allow the Moldovan Government to force its population to finance such uncertain European programmes and agencies as the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme or the Single European Sky ATM Research Programme (SESAR), when Moldova is not even a Member of the European Union, smacks of cynicism.
The efforts described have been consistent with and have demonstrated Moldova's concern with continuing on the route towards possible enlargement.
The EU should continue making every effort so that the reforms that need to be implemented in Moldova continue along the right path, which is the direction of this partnership and cooperation protocol.
Increasing Moldova's involvement in Community programmes will offer an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and, in addition, to reinforce political relations through the Eastern Partnership and the negotiations on the new association agreement.
The failure of the constitutional referendum of 5 September 2010 is regrettable.
It is essential for Moldova to proceed with the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) Action Plan and of the reforms it has set out in the document 'Rethink Moldova'.
The organisation of legislative elections on 28 November is essential for the future stability and prosperity of Moldova and the development of its relations with the European Union.
These elections must help the country to make progress along these lines and must comply fully with international standards on the holding of free and fair elections.
The conclusion of the Protocol encourages the strengthening of cooperation in the cultural, educational and other fields.
I voted in favour, since I hope that the partnership will assist Moldova's integration with the European Union.
I am convinced that political relations between the EU and Moldova will be reinforced through the Eastern Partnership and the negotiations of the new Association Agreement.
The ratification by Moldova in October of this year of the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court is a very positive step in this direction.
Within this context, I voted in favour of this legislative resolution relating to the signing of an additional protocol to the EU-Moldova Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, and an EU-Moldova Framework Agreement on the general principles governing the participation of Moldova in Union programmes.
I voted in favour because I agree it is essential for Moldova to proceed with the implementation of the ENP Action Plan and of the reforms it has set out in the document 'Rethink Moldova'.
Political stability is a conditio sine qua non for greater involvement in EU programmes.
Equally, a decisively pro-European choice could contribute to smoothing the path of both economic and democratic development in Moldova.
That, Mr President, is why I voted in favour of this resolution of the European Parliament today, in the hope that all the processes activated in Moldova are accompanied by technical and scientific support from Europe.
As part of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the initiative of gradually opening up certain EU programmes and agencies to participation from ENP partner countries is one of the numerous measures intended to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the countries neighbouring the European Union.
The decision was taken in March 2008 to initiate negotiations with the Republic of Moldova, which have now been completed.
I voted for this report as this initiative supports the efforts being made by the Republic of Moldova, a state neighbouring the EU, to carry out reform and modernisation.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the signing of this Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and Moldova because I understand that the assistance that the EU has provided to Moldova is essential for that country to be able to implement necessary reforms and to achieve the desired political stability, with complete respect for the principles of the democratic rule of law.
in writing. - This report refers to the draft Council decision on the conclusion of a Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, on a Framework Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova on the general principles for the participation of the Republic of Moldova in Union programmes.
in writing. - In my capacity as EPP shadow rapporteur on the EU-Republic of Moldova Agreements, I warmly welcome the vote with an overwhelming majority in favour of the conclusion of the Protocol to the EU-Republic of Moldova Partnership and Cooperation Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Moldova in the Union's programmes.
I am glad to conclude that the European Parliament expressed cross-party unanimity at every stage of the examination of the issue in this House, thus shaping a single position on the need to conclude this Protocol as soon as possible and hence offer the Republic of Moldova all possible opportunities to benefit from the advantages of its relations with the EU.
The European Union, including the new Member States like Lithuania, is responsible for observing the interests of our eastern neighbours.
The strengthening of cooperation between the EU and Moldova and the inclusion of Moldova in Community programmes will help bring this country closer to EU standards and norms.
The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement would enable the promotion of new close links between the EU and Moldova in the fields of culture, education and technology.
The Transnistria conflict is a problem for Europe, but it is also an opportunity for the EU to cooperate more closely with Moldova, Russia and Ukraine.
I hope that the parliamentary elections on 28 November will enable Moldova to move forward.
in writing. - (FR) Parliament today adopted two legislative reports at first reading: a regulation relating to aspects specific to the European Union and a directive on the rules to be applied by Member States at national level.
Member States will be responsible for national legislation to ensure that objective and impartial information is available to the general public.
Patients should have better access to good quality information on prescription-only medicines.
We have a duty to protect consumers and to keep them informed in a transparent manner.
The Commission has proposed a directive which amends the current legislation in order to improve the way in which information relating to prescription-only medicines is disseminated to the general public.
It aims to establish a legal framework governing the dissemination of specific information on medicinal products from marketing authorisation holders to the general public.
The European Parliament has drafted a legislative resolution which is more ambitious than the Commission's proposal.
I voted for this important resolution which aims to enable patients to be better informed on the medicines they are prescribed.
There are considerable problems with the current legal framework and the situation within Europe when it comes to patients' access to information on prescription-only medicine.
The differences in interpretations of the directive by the Member States give patients in different parts of Europe different access to high quality and comprehensive information on pharmaceuticals.
In some Member States, patients lack easy access to even the most basic information about the pharmaceuticals they are prescribed.
The amendments adopted by the European Parliament also ensure that information on prescribed medicine is only given to the public through specific communication channels, including specialised and certified websites safeguarding patients' interests and aiming to limit advertisement opportunities for the pharmaceutical companies.
There are many problems with the current legal framework and the situation within Europe when it comes to patients' access to information about prescription-only medicines.
Patients have unlimited access via the Internet to uncontrolled and frequently incorrect information about prescription-only medicines in a few seconds.
I agree with the underlying spirit of this report, which aims to put the 'patient's right to know' into the centre of the legislation and, consequently, recommends that pharmaceutical companies give patients some basic information.
The provisions relating to information on prescription-only medicinal products therefore need to be updated and new rules need to be adopted, promoting greater health literacy and involving the health industry to a greater extent in carrying out a fundamental role to improve public health.
I join with the rapporteur in emphasising the difficulty in accessing this kind of information in some European countries, due to different interpretations by the Member States of the directive on information relating to medicinal products, as well as the unreliable and unclear nature of that information.
Nonetheless, in order to avoid creating any imbalance between Member States, it is vital to identify the means by which to disseminate this information, and not favour one at the expense of the others.
The amendments that the European Parliament put forward to a proposal by the Commission relating to information on medicines warranted my vote in favour, as I believe it to be essential for the general public to have easy access to knowledge concerning medicines, in particular through information being made available on the Internet in all European languages.
The European Commission's initial proposal for a directive on information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription has thrown the doors open for pharmaceutical companies to advertise their drugs.
I voted in favour of all the amendments which significantly improved the original text, by shifting the focus of the legislation away from the right of the pharmaceutical industry to advertise their products to the right of patients to have reliable, objective and independent information.
I also voted in favour of the amendments which prohibit the provision of information on drugs both on television and radio and in the press.
However, despite the improvements which we made, the dividing line between information and advertising is still blurred and the text still has a number of weaknesses and loopholes.
I think that patients must have access to better information about medicinal products subject to medical prescription.
This entails providing objective information about the medicines' characteristics and the diseases for which they are recommended, as well as preventing the provision of unsolicited information or disguised advertising.
Making a distinction between information and advertising concerning medicines is essential for the protection of the public.
Furthermore, access to clear and reliable information will be strengthened, by making it available in all the languages of the European Union on approved websites and in official brochures.
I welcome the adoption of this proposal, which marks real progress towards greater transparency in health matters.
Moreover, there is a very fine line between information and advertising.
The report, as adopted today, includes many more guarantees: that the information provided by pharmaceutical companies for dissemination will, in particular, be checked beforehand, and will not be disseminated by the media.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription, Directive 2001/83/EC.
This directive sets out a Community code relating to medicinal products for human use and helps ensure the right of patients to reliable, accessible and independent information, validated by the competent authorities, on the medicinal products available.
Directive 2001/83/EC, which sets out a Community code relating to medicinal products for human use, provides for a harmonised framework for the advertising of medicines at a Community level, the application of which continues to be a responsibility of the Member States.
This legislation prohibits advertising to the general public of medicines subject to medical prescription.
This proposal for a directive amends the earlier directive as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription.
Secondly, the Commission is given the role of monitoring and decision making through delegated acts on the definition of what constitutes information and what constitutes advertising.
We believe that this approach means that too many roles for providing information are concentrated in the hands of pharmaceutical companies and within the Commission, and that these roles should be carried out on a sovereign basis, coordinated and approved by specific national authorities in order to improve the information given to patients and the public, and to safeguard their rights.
Approval of the new legislation on information on medicinal products represents a further step toward guaranteeing patients clearer and more effective information on the drugs they take and are prescribed.
We need a harmonised legal framework at European level that not only maintains the ban on advertising medicinal products subject to medical prescription but also takes into account the patient's right to information.
We must remember that patients are playing a more and more active role in the health sector throughout the European Union.
Better access to non-promotional information may therefore help the public to gain a better understanding of the treatments prescribed to them and help their recovery, all naturally in the interests of their health.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription because I believe that harmonising the laws in this sector is a fundamental means of safeguarding the knowledge of European patients.
I fully support this House's call for a clear distinction to be made between therapeutic information and advertising.
Pharmaceutical companies, in fact, must not use patients' right to information as a vehicle for disguising their promotional aims but instead must use it to guarantee European consumers a real understanding of products, through the scientific indication of their characteristics, labelling and assessment reports.
It should also be noted that greater access to information both in electronic form, available over the Internet, and in printed form can also contribute to the achievement of better medical results, because a patient who is informed about prescribed medicines is one who can play an active and more knowledgeable role in the therapeutic recovery process.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which is part of a package which will amend the current 2001 directive on medicinal products for human use.
The amendments do not propose preventing pharmaceutical companies from producing information about their medicines for the general public.
I cannot, however, vote for such a weak text.
Therefore, the objective of this proposal cannot be limited to harmonising European legislation, but should also promote health, through the improvement of knowledge in the area of health.
This will hopefully result in better clarification of the fact that non-prescription medicines can also interact with prescription medicines.
The very aim of the proposal for a directive as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription is to provide simple information that is easy to understand and use, but that avoids forms of advertising.
It is also important for information to be accessible via other channels, in addition to package leaflets, and I therefore welcome publication on the Internet.
in writing. - (PT) I believe the establishment of the distinction between information and advertising that is made with regard to medicines to be fundamental for the protection of citizens.
My vote in favour of the Fjellner Report was a result of the clear improvements that were introduced into Directive 2001/83/EC.
I voted in favour because I agree that non-promotional information on medicinal products must be made available to patients and the general public by marketing authorisation holders according to the 'pull principle' whereby patients/the public have access to information if they need it, contrary to the 'push principle' whereby the marketing authorisation holders disseminate information among patients and the general public.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report since I welcome the fact that the compromise changes introduced into the proposal initially presented by the Commission will have contributed decisively to guaranteeing patient access to reliable and independent information on prescription-only medicines that are available on the market.
Advertising of prescription-only medicines is banned within the European Union, and remains so.
Pharmaceutical companies must comply with clear rules on objectivity in the non-promotional information that they disseminate.
These are the two important messages sent this lunchtime with the adoption of the legislative package on information for patients.
The European Commission proposed a ban on information about prescription-only medicines broadcast on television or radio, and the European Parliament has decided to extend this to the written press.
in writing. - We decided we would vote in favour or abstain depending on the result of the third part of Amendment 31, which ensures that pharmaceutical companies can only provide information material to health professionals for their own use, not for patients via healthcare professionals.
Our vote in favour of this measure is a consequence of the formal distinction that has been made between information on medicinal products and advertising.
The fact that the information on drugs will not be allowed to be published in newspapers or magazines, nor much less broadcast on the radio or television, is therefore appreciated.
I nevertheless voted in favour of the legislative proposal as, at the end of the day, it does ensure better information for patients.
I voted in favour of the report because it provides a clear and sustainable improvement to patient information on medicinal products.
This directive will introduce for the first time uniform regulations on the provision of certain information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription.
Contrary to some reports in the media, the directive relates only to medicinal products subject to medical prescription.
The amendment to Directive 2001/83/EC emphasises better information for patients, especially in relation to the distinction between information and advertising.
Following this amendment, the regulation, for its part, should be amended so that certain items of information on the products it covers can also be subjected to prior monitoring by the European Medicines Agency.
With this aim in mind, the European Commission has tabled a proposal to amend the regulation, concerning the dissemination to the general public of information on prescription-only medicinal products for human use.
The European Parliament, called on to express an opinion on the proposal, has tabled a number of amendments to the European Commission's text.
These are the reasons that have led me to vote in favour of the resolution amending Directive 2001/83/EC.
We maintain that the responsibility for informing citizens about drugs in general, not just drugs available on prescription as provided for in the regulation, should rest solely with the State.
Drugs, drug research and the means for disseminating knowledge and information are in the hands of the multinationals, whose only criterion is profit.
I voted in favour of this report which strives to ensure the key EU objective of ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for medicinal products for human use and of better protecting the health of EU citizens.
Moreover, there is a very fine line between information and advertising.
The report, as adopted today, includes many more guarantees: that the information provided by pharmaceutical companies for dissemination will, in particular, be checked beforehand, and will not be disseminated by the media.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.
It is important too that any information they receive is objective and that the pharmaceutical industry does not blur the line between information and advertising.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON) has done a good job in amending this proposal and I was able to support this report.
It is important for patients to have access to information on the medicine that they are taking but I feel that this type of advertising would undermine the doctor's role as gatekeeper and may damage their responsibility to patients.
The current EU legal framework on the scientific information provided to European consumers presents many problems, particularly as regards the different interpretations of the directive by individual Member States.
The report approved today aims to improve the level of harmonisation of the regulations in the sector in an attempt to close the gaps and eliminate the disparities that exist today with regard to safeguarding the right to health.
I voted in favour of this report as I am particularly interested in health-related topics, especially concerning equal access for patients to medical care and information.
Patients must have the right to obtain complete, correct information about medicines.
The proposals from my colleague Christofer Fjellner have gone precisely in this direction, thereby giving priority to the patient.
The amendments made by the European Parliament to the European Commission's legislative proposal highlight that manufacturers of medicinal products must provide basic information such as product characteristics, a label, patient information leaflet and a publicly available version of the assessment report.
One cannot oppose a draft that states obvious facts such as the need to 'place emphasis on the rights and interests of patients', the need to oblige companies to publicly list the adverse reactions of their medicines and the need to publish information in all the official languages of the European Union.
Therefore, the objective of this proposal cannot be limited to harmonising European legislation, but should also promote health, through the improvement of knowledge in the area of health.
If we wish to protect health, pharmaceutical leaflets must be as clear and comprehensive as possible, and must satisfy basic quality criteria.
With this same concern to protect patients and provide information to the general public, we must promote the easiest possible access to information, in particular by summarising the characteristics of the product and providing a leaflet for these in both electronic and printed form.
The veiled advertising of medicines is unacceptable.
Doctors must be able to give their patients recommendations on medicines.
Doctors must regulate and prescribe medicines to patients, in order to avoid speculation and competition between drug manufacturers.
Pharmaceutical companies should be limited to providing support in the form of information, but in no event must they be allowed to try and foist their products on patients.
Doctors are responsible for treatment; they must also decide which medicines should be administered to the patient in the course of that treatment.
in writing. - (DE) In view of the fact that, in Germany alone, around 25 000 people die each year as a result of adverse reactions and interactions and 3% of accidents can be attributed to prescription-only medicines, it is clear that we must provide patients with better information.
This proposal contains a couple of initiatives intended to enable patients to be better informed about the medicines they have been prescribed and the use of these medicines.
Nevertheless, it is of course important for the information to be made available throughout the EU.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report.
The second concerns the ban on advertising prescription-only drugs, because it is important to draw a distinction between generic and non-generic drugs, not only from the viewpoint of information to be given to patients but above all with regard to compliance with good practice in the manufacturing of active substances, particularly outside Europe.
Patients in Europe already have unlimited access via the Internet to uncontrolled and frequently incorrect information about prescription-only medicines in a few seconds.
However, access via the Internet to controlled and safe drug information is very limited for most patients.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the proposed regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency.
I believe that it is essential to guarantee patient access to reliable and independent information on medicines subject to medical prescription that are available on the market.
In today's sitting, we voted at first reading on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council as regards information on medicinal products (EU procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products).
Parliament and patient organisations have been asking for such a proposal for a long time, in order to enable patients to better informed on the medicines they are prescribed and taking.
The current regulation is not in line with technical development or the possibilities and challenges created by Internet.
Patients in Europe already have infinite access to uncontrolled and often incorrect information about prescription-only pharmaceutical products in a few seconds.
Parliament and patient organizations have been asking for such a proposal for a long time, in order to enable patients to better informed on the medicines they are prescribed and taking.
We, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament (Dan Jørgensen, Christel Schaldemose, Britta Thomsen and Ole Christensen), have abstained from voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency so that it will guarantee in future a legal EU framework enabling European citizens to have equal access to correct and clear information about medicinal products.
The report presented by the Commission on 20 December 2007 concerning 'current practices with regard to the provision of information to patients on medicinal products' indicates that Member States have adopted divergent rules and practices with regard to the provision of information on medicinal products, resulting in a situation where patients and the general public have unequal access to this information.
Europe's citizens are entitled to have access to correct and clear information about medicinal products.
Nonetheless, we need clear rules in order to provide a common framework for this essential task.
I therefore voted for the European Parliament legislative resolution on the adoption of a directive restricting the use of these substances.
Indeed, the proposal contains a number of derogations, particularly as concerns photovoltaic panels.
These problems have not been solved with RoHS 1.0.
I support the document's proposals that the European Commission should strengthen the prevention of the use of harmful substances and periodically examine the prohibition of other hazardous substances and their replacement with more environmentally friendly alternative substances or technologies which would ensure an appropriate level of protection of human health and the environment.
The European Parliament has ratified the agreement with the Council under the ordinary legislative procedure by adopting, at first reading, the recast of the directive restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
The idea behind the recast of the current directive, which dates back to 2003, is to progress even further in restricting the use of hazardous substances.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Evans, on her work and the good compromise that she managed to reach amongst our political groups.
The text adopted, a recast of the directive currently in force, aims to set more ambitious parameters for the use of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE).
It should be noted that in recent years the European institutions have, with great effort, made notable progress in making the disposal and production of electronic equipment more respectful of the environment and human health.
I voted in favour of this measure, which fits into this context and certainly represents both a burden and an opportunity for companies and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Finally, the new parameters examined in this report will guarantee both greater protection for European consumers and greater respect for the environment.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast), as I believe that the agreement reached with the Council meets the objective of contributing to the protection of human health and the environment, simplifying and giving greater coherence to existing legislation.
The recasting of the directive on the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances is aimed at broadening the scope of the directive and strengthening its preventative part, so that environmental damage can be corrected at the source as a priority, in line with Article 174.2 of the treaty.
in writing. - (PT) This recast relating to the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS) is necessary, according to the Commission, because of uncertainty with regard to scope, a lack of clarity with regard to legal provisions, and disparities among Member States with regard to the conformity of the products in question.
Considering a product to be susceptible a priori of being banned in the future without any scientific basis gives rise to an unacceptable situation of a lack of legislative definition.
In the case of PVC, an initial assessment carried out under the terms of the REACH Regulation concluded that it is not very hazardous, and is not a priority substance for inclusion in Annex III.
I voted in favour of this report because, during the negotiations that preceded the plenary vote, this list was withdrawn.
The amount of sales of electrical and electronic equipment in the EU and the inevitable increase in waste from this equipment means that there is a need to replace certain hazardous substances in them, so as to minimise their impact on the environment and ensure the protection of consumers and public health.
We therefore voted for this report.
I abstained on the Evans report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment because I find Parliament's approach strange.
I voted in favour of the report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS), because the extension of the area of application to cover all electronic equipment represents a definite improvement.
However, I find the fact that there are so many exceptions problematic.
This directive will enable numerous companies to make even more progress in designing new and safer electrical and electronic equipment by encouraging technological innovation.
This is also good news for consumers, because the new rules introduce the obligation to use substances which are safe for health and the environment, and this applies to all producers of electrical appliances throughout the European Union.
A major drawback, however, is the long list of exclusions, including photovoltaic panels.
in writing. - The compromise negotiated by my colleague Jill Evans marks progress in this area of law.
The legal certainty it provides will lead to improvements in environmental protection and I accordingly voted in favour of the report.
Therefore, it is indispensable to introduce legislative regulations which will limit the use of harmful substances in the production of appliances which come into our homes, and which at the same time will support producers in the introduction of innovative, ecological measures.
in writing. - The current RoHS restricts the use of six hazardous materials that were once contained in certain electrical and electronic equipment.
The European Union needed a detailed set of rules on the use of certain substances considered hazardous in electrical and electronic equipment.
I therefore ultimately believe it is a priority to safeguard certain primary assets such as public health and the environment, albeit in the knowledge that we are operating in conditions that are very much defined by the severe economic crisis that has affected Europe and the world.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
The current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive restricts the use of six hazardous materials in the manufacturing of certain electronic and electrical equipment.
The use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment is a major problem for public health, for the environment and for waste management.
These risks are even greater in recycling and recovery operations under poor conditions in developing countries, especially in the case of illegal exporting for disposal in dumps in poorer countries.
This directive contributes to the setting out of clear rules in the Member States as regards placing these substances on the market, and subsequently reusing them.
However, I believe that some hazardous substances that were left out of the directive should be included within the next three years, following a review and assessment of their impact.
in writing. - (PT) The increased use of electrical and electronic equipment, combined with their considerable technological development, has led to an ever shortening life cycle.
This, in turn, has led to serious problems with regard to the use of dangerous substances in this equipment, as well as difficulties in the management of the ever larger quantity of waste.
Therefore, this directive relating to the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances (RoHS) is aimed at broadening its scope and strengthening its preventative part, so that environmental damage may be corrected at source as a priority, in line with Article 174(2) of the treaty.
This recast is essential for there to be a successful reduction of hazardous substances in this type of equipment.
The directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS) governs the use of hazardous substances in devices and components.
There has certainly been a rapid growth in the market for electrical equipment, in particular in the areas of IT and telecommunications.
The recast of the RoHS Directive is aimed at preventing the use of hazardous substances that could harm the environment or human health.
Some of the proposals are controversial: on the one hand, large computer manufacturers like HP, ACER or Sony Ericsson have pronounced themselves in favour of a ban on all brominated flame retardants in electrical and electronic equipment.
On the other hand, the results of the Commission's studies are clearly not very conclusive, at least as regards the potential damage to the environment.
I have therefore abstained from voting.
I voted in favour of the report for a variety of reasons.
I was also pleased at the adoption of a methodology for reviewing the hazardous substances contained in Annex IV, as it means that the list of substances to be examined by the Commission (Annex III) can be removed.
in writing. - (PT) My vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) was due to the improvements introduced by mutual agreement with the Council, which should contribute to major improvements in the protection of public health and the environment, and waste management.
The reorganisation and restriction of the use of hazardous materials was imperative in view of the substantial increase in sales of electrical and electronic equipment within the EU.
With this legislation, we are contributing to preventing the waste that we produce with electrical and electronic equipment, such as mobile phones, computers and refrigerators, from harming the environment and human health through the introduction of chemical products into the environment, either from landfill or through the release of toxic gases from incineration.
I voted in favour because I agree that the RoHS recast needs to be put into the context of the EU's international obligations to reduce total releases of dioxins and furans, with the goal of their continuing minimisation and, where feasible, ultimate elimination.
I voted for this report as the new proposal for a directive is simpler and will offer manufacturers an easier instrument to use for classifying their products in the categories envisaged by the directive.
According to the Commission, it is advisable to reformulate the current directive relating to the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, adopted in 2003, on the grounds of clarity and legal certainty.
This safety approach was implemented mainly through a ban on the use of lead, mercury and cadmium in products as diverse as domestic appliances, radio and television sets, electric trains and video games.
Similarly, it was important to reconsider the restrictive position on nanomaterials adopted by the Committee on the Environment in June.
At today's sitting, I voted in favour of the revision of the directive on the use of hazardous substances in electric or electronic equipment.
Partly as a result of new scientific knowledge on the subject, the text - a recast of the 2003 directive - seeks to introduce restrictions on the use of materials such as cadmium, chlorine, mercury and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), which have been shown to endanger human health.
In such cases, in fact, disposal must be even more rigorous and careful.
WEEE is a complex waste stream, including several hazardous substances.
These substances, or their transformation products, can be released into the environment and damage human health, especially if not treated appropriately.
I really hope this report will help to solve those problems.
The open scope of the legislation, as recommended by the Environment Committee, is a much better approach than that proposed by the Commission.
A definitive list of specific products could exclude new products from the regulation, and we need to ensure that the legislation not only facilitates - but also keeps up with - innovation by industry.
The recast of the directive is also necessary in order to make RoHS an efficient, flexible instrument.
Although it will surely not be possible to achieve complete satisfaction in relation to such a complex matter, this provides a very close approximation.
I have voted in favour of the Evans report because the overall balance of the agreement reached with the Council is positive.
I expressly disapprove of a situation where a sector which ought to be a driving force in our evolution towards a green economy has been anxious to evade this important environmental legislation and where a majority in Parliament and the Council have given in to the interests of one type of technology in particular (the use of cadmium telluride thin-film solar panels).
In today's vote, I endorsed the report on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
Recently, we have been able to see the significance of the problem addressed by the legislation we have adopted, as several million households around the European Union have exchanged their CRT television sets for modern LCD screens.
Hence, we will be able to ensure the protection of copyright, as well as creativity and innovation in cultural and scientific matters.
Indeed, we should stop and reflect today on how better to combat piracy, and this international agreement is a step in the direction of the more effective application of anti-counterfeiting measures.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Conservatives and Reformists on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, known as 'ACTA'.
That is why I welcome the adoption of this resolution.
It is a strong text which should have united all MEPs.
In my view, the European Union must spearhead this fight against negligence and lack of commitment of which China and Russia are frequently guilty in this area.
Our competitiveness in the globalised economy is at stake.
I voted against this text: the European right has given in to the demands of certain governments and to the pressure of the cultural industries, at the expense of the fundamental rights of European citizens.
Finally, the Commission must carry out an impact assessment quickly - before rather than after ACTA has been implemented - regarding its application and its consequences for fundamental rights, data protection and the E-Commerce Directive.
This will allow the strengthening of international cooperation in combating counterfeiting, creating a tool to protect intellectual property rights (IPRs) effectively.
It is not intended to create new rights, but to ensure respect for existing rights through repressive measures and the creation of a comprehensive international framework of assistance to the parties.
Counterfeiting is a very serious problem that carries enormous risks for European industry, the economy and innovation.
I hope that this agreement will be a step in the right direction, and that in forthcoming negotiations it will be possible to resolve the ambiguities and omissions that still plague the text, such as in the reference to false geographical locations.
I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on the 'Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement' proposed by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, along with another three political groups from the European legislative.
The resolution also endeavoured to guarantee access to medicines in developing countries.
It is deplorable that this resolution failed to win the vote of the House as the socialist position supported the interests of European citizens.
in writing. - (PT) I agree on the whole with this motion for a resolution, which concerns the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), approved after long months of debate and efforts to find a compromise solution between the various political groups, which was unfortunately not achieved.
Aware that ACTA does not recommend a solution to a complex and multi-dimensional problem such as counterfeiting, as expressed in paragraph 3, I still believe that ACTA constitutes a valid tool for making existing standards more effective, thus benefiting exports from the EU and protecting rights-holders when they operate within the global market, where various holders of industrial and intellectual property rights are currently the victims of systematic and widespread violation of copyright, trademarks, patents, designs and geographical indications.
in writing. - I voted against this resolution, which states the position of the European Parliament ahead of the initialling of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), because the conservative majority in this House refused to raise the need for basic safeguards for our citizens vis-à-vis this global copyright agreement.
The Commission must also demonstrate to us that cooperation between service providers and copyright holders will not impinge on citizens' fundamental rights, especially the right to privacy, the right to freedom of expression and the right to due process.
This requires an assessment of the impact of ACTA on data protection and fundamental rights.
The main aim of this agreement, which has been negotiated for years in the utmost secrecy between 10 or so countries, is to combat counterfeiting and to protect intellectual property rights.
The resolution, which was adopted by a slim majority - and only just - cannot actually be regarded as support, as doubts remain over whether the text complies with the acquis communautaire and whether it is compatible with respect for fundamental rights.
Overall, I believe that the ACTA is favourable to the economic interests of the EU, and that it strikes a balance between protecting intellectual property rights and ensuring fundamental rights.
The fight against counterfeiting is a priority, and international cooperation is fundamental to achieving this objective.
in writing. - (PT) The agreement negotiated is an important step in the fight against counterfeiting, and is a key element in the EU's political strategy for ensuring justice, a level playing-field for European producers, the preservation of jobs for citizens, and respect for the rule of law.
The fight against counterfeiting should be one of the priorities of internal and international political strategy, and international cooperation is fundamental to the achievement of this objective.
ACTA is a tool that makes existing standards more effective, thus benefiting exports from the EU and protecting rights-holders when they operate within the global market.
I would stress the importance for European companies and jobs within the EU of protecting geographical indications, and I welcome the efforts made by the Commission to include the protection of geographical indications within the scope of ACTA.
Finally, I would emphasise the importance of the Commission confirming that the application of ACTA will not have any impact on fundamental rights and data protection, or on the efforts that the EU is currently making to harmonise implementation measures for intellectual property rights.
I would have done so not because I have changed political persuasion, but because I believe that this agreement is insufficient to protect our industries from counterfeiting, that it fails to guarantee respect for geographical indications, that it serves little purpose if it does not involve China, the biggest counterfeiter in the world, and that it endangers the rights and freedoms of citizens as it concerns 'intangible' property rights.
I voted against the motion for a resolution on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Conservatives and Reformists because that text is by no means sufficient to protect individual freedoms.
MEPs have regularly expressed their many concerns about the negotiation of this international agreement and before the agreement was definitively ratified by the Member States and the European Union, it was important to raise a number of problems, particularly those relating to access to medicines, the responsibility of Internet access providers, and searches of travellers' personal luggage at borders.
in writing. - I am disappointed that the resolution supported by my own group today was not adopted.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Conservatives and Reformists on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA).
The resolution also points out that the agreement must be in line with the acquis communautaire, in other words the common body of EU law.
Decisive measures must be taken to counter this.
Although I welcome the effort made here to provide greater protection for intellectual property rights, I am not convinced that the form of the agreement presented to us here is entirely optimal.
The fact that the agreement places greater emphasis on protecting the holders of rights, and not the actual authors, makes me concerned as to whether the agreement will really serve to protect general intellectual property rights, and not just to protect the rights of a narrow group of entities based mainly in the US.
It is perhaps not necessary to comment again on the method of negotiating the agreement, but I do believe that a similarly non-transparent form of negotiation to that chosen for ACTA will not be repeated and Parliament will in future be informed in good time over the negotiation procedure for similar agreements and the content of the agreements.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) has increased and continues to increase the effectiveness of the rules that promote European Union exports and protect those people who are increasingly subject to widespread infringements of their intellectual property rights when they operate on the global market.
As is emphasised effectively in the joint motion for a resolution, the fight against counterfeiting at global level represents a key aspect of European Union political strategy, with the aim of being able to offer standard conditions of competition for all European producers.
The protection of copyright, trademarks, patents, designs and geographical indications is certainly a sensitive issue because it is concerned with fundamental human rights, but today's motion constitutes a serious appeal to continue in the right direction.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Conservatives and Reformists.
This PPE/ECR resolution points out that the fight against counterfeiting is a priority within the Union's internal and international political strategy and that international cooperation is a key element in the global pursuit of this goal.
In taking up the concerns of the European Parliament and of our fellow citizens, such as respect for fundamental rights, the protection of privacy and personal data, the recognition of the vital role of unrestricted Internet access, the importance of protecting the role of service providers, and the need to safeguard access to medicines, the act makes the current rules more effective.
It aims to provide better protection against all violations of intellectual property rights, trademarks, designs and patents in the interests of Community exports and the holders of these rights.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA).
This is a very delicate subject where we need to give rights holders adequate protection and a reasonable return on their investments without, on the other hand, infringing civil liberties, restricting access to medicine or criminalising individuals for trivial breaches of copyright.
However, no clear significance emerges from the proposed ACTA agreement in terms of high quality and especially balanced protection of the interests of all EU Member State citizens.
Although the agreement also declares, among other things, a strengthening of the monitoring by relevant bodies of goods in transit and the export regime or ex officio negotiations, a question arises here as to scope and other possibilities for enforcing the agreement, as its effect seems debatable without the agreed ratification by a large number of important countries worldwide.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it represents an important step in combating counterfeiting without calling into question issues such as the transportation of generic medicines, and it ensures fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection.
In the case of ACTA, a handful of countries have negotiated among themselves the rules that are to prevail in the area of intellectual property rights.
This misappropriation of international law to the benefit of the richest countries and their closest allies is wholly intolerable.
in writing. - (PT) The introduction of the draft Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement on 2 October 2010, following the Tokyo round of negotiations, is very important.
There is also a need for the Commission to make available to Parliament and the public the definitive text of the ACTA agreement following the meeting to negotiate technical aspects that took place in Sydney between 30 November and 3 December 2010.
Combating counterfeiting is one of the main priorities of internal and international political strategy, and international cooperation is fundamental to the achievement of this objective.
In the tabled version there is a clear indication that our final position will be opposed to the adoption of the agreement.
I believe that the agreement is generally favourable to the economic interests of the European Union, especially given the fact that we want our economy to be based on innovation, research and development, or 'smart growth'.
I therefore believe that enhanced protection of industrial property rights, including patents, is essential for European competitiveness.
Obviously, not everything is satisfactory, but an international agreement must be judged in overall terms.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)/European Conservatives and Reformists and against the others because the international ACTA makes it possible to combat counterfeiting more effectively, which will lead to better copyright protection and, by extension, help protect European industry.
Furthermore, the ACTA will help protect consumers against counterfeit products, which are becoming increasingly prevalent on European markets.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on ACTA, inasmuch as I believe that it is essential for the agreement to be implemented.
This must be done quickly without any more delays or time-wasting, otherwise we risk an impasse in negotiations to the detriment of both manufacturers and European consumers alike.
The first issue is that it must be compulsory for European geographical indications to be protected in both civil and customs terms, as these are today suffering damage that affects not only the agri-food industry, the counterfeited products of which suffer unfair competition typically involving the use of names that copy and evoke familiar European brands, but also industries operating in the design and fashion sectors.
This sector has seen an increase in the sale of books, films, music and millions of counterfeit goods, which harms not only consumers but also European manufacturers.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Conservatives and Reformists on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), as this is an agreement designed to safeguard justice and healthy competition.
The agreement introduces a full international framework to strengthen the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. - (PT) I am convinced that this motion for a resolution represents an important step in combating counterfeiting, while maintaining the necessary balance between conflicting values.
It does not call into question freedom of expression and innovation, and guarantees fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy and data protection.
The transparency adopted by the Commission during these negotiations in keeping the EP informed is to be applauded, and I hope that it will be possible during forthcoming negotiations to resolve the ambiguities and omissions that are still pointed to by all parties.
I believe that the agreement reached will strengthen international cooperation in the fight against counterfeiting, creating a tool for the effective protection of Intellectual Property Rights and the guaranteeing of fundamental rights.
It is also essential to ensure respect for existing rights through repressive measures and the creation of a comprehensive international framework of assistance to the parties involved.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it represents an important step in combating counterfeiting without calling into question issues such as the transport of generic medicines, and it ensures fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and data protection.
in writing. - (PT) The fight against counterfeiting, which is a global phenomenon, requires a multilateral approach, based on the strengthening of cooperation between the major parties involved globally.
Consequently, although I am aware that the agreement negotiated will not solve the complex problem of counterfeiting, I am convinced that it constitutes a step in the right direction.
Today, I voted for the recently finalised international Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA).
The aim of the new multilateral ACTA between the European Union, the United States, Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and Switzerland is to strengthen the protection of intellectual property and contribute to the fight against counterfeiting and piracy of products such as big-name clothing brands, music and films.
I am aware that the agreement negotiated will not resolve the complex and multidimensional problem of counterfeiting, but I believe it constitutes a step in the right direction.
In any case, I call on the European Commission to confirm that the text does not have any repercussions on fundamental freedoms and European Union legislation.
in writing. - The European Parliament just narrowly failed to adopt a resolution demanding that the Commission clarify and assess the consequences of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ACTA.
The numbers were 306 in favour, 322 against, with 26 abstentions.
The resolution has no formal effect at all, but is merely an expression of how Parliament feels.
The deciding vote will (probably) be some time early next year, when Parliament will be asked to give its consent to the agreement.
The vote today was a reminder that we will have to continue working hard to get more information on the effects of ACTA so that the European Parliament can make an informed decision in the final consent vote.
Indeed, it helps clarify the means of redress available in the event of flagrant breaches of intellectual property rights in one of the countries party to the agreement.
The Commission has been transparent, ACTA cannot go beyond the acquis communautaire, cannot exceed any of the measures taken within the framework of the European directives, and cannot under any circumstances violate fundamental rights.
Finally, ACTA is an open agreement, and all those States that wish to participate freely in it can join with us, so that together we can provide legal, and also physical, protection to our fellow citizens against the damage caused by counterfeiting.
I therefore voted for this motion for a resolution.
I think that, as things currently stand, Parliament's previous opinions are adequate, and I voted against all of the proposals in the resolution.
The joint motion for a resolution required the Commission to present a number of time-consuming analyses before it was to sign the agreement, which would run the risk of creating a situation in which other parties would start to doubt whether Europe really is a serious party with which to conclude international trade agreements.
I endorsed the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), because I think that as part of the fight against piracy it is necessary to establish common principles for the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
It is particularly difficult in the case of intangible property, such as the copyright to musical and literary works and patents.
I voted in favour of my group's motion for a resolution because the fight against counterfeiting is crucial and must be worldwide to be effective.
In this way, we are laying the foundations of a multilateral strategy which will protect that which makes our economic development dynamic: our inventions, our brands and our artistic works.
