European environmental economic accounts (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on European environmental economic accounts - C7-0092/2010 -.
The purely quantitative view of economic activity says nothing about the environmental balance sheet, nor about the social balance sheet, and therefore it is high time that we measured whether, year on year, we are doing well or badly in terms of our measures and efforts.
This law on environmental economic accounts is intended to help us to draw up an accurate balance sheet in the 27 Member States and to establish whether we are making progress or, as is often the case, whether we are going backwards.
We are pleased that the Commission took this legislative initiative in April 2010, but in our opinion, it was much too tentative in the way it went about it.
We in Parliament and all of the groups have called for this to be done much more quickly, because the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations have already been discussing these matters for 15 years.
It was a very difficult situation in the Council, because some Member States do not produce an environmental balance sheet and we first need to create a foundation in all 27 Member States.
In two years' time - by 2013 at the latest - the Commission is to present a report and, where possible, also propose a revision of this directive.
Let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur, Jo Leinen, the shadow rapporteur, Mr Martin, and all the members of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their constructive approach and their very valuable contributions.
I think it is very good to be able to stand here, not only as a non-attached Member, but as someone who, with this opinion on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - it was not a shadow report, but a supplementary opinion that is even more comprehensive than that of the lead committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - is able to represent these positions that we have set out with a vote of 37 to 0.
With a vote of 37 to 0 to 0, we are of the opinion that the Commission clearly needs more money in this area for an ESS, for this system of European sustainability statistics.
We can also examine how sustainable economic development in Europe is progressing and how we can refine our environmental policy.
I would therefore like to ask the Commission whether it is planning to create new positions within the Commission for the collection of the data, or whether it will manage with its existing staff, because I think it is very important that the collection of this data does not result in new burdens.
This is extremely important.
These European environmental economic accounts are necessary for the switchover to a truly sustainable economy.
The collection of such data should therefore be compulsory and harmonised.
However, conventional national accounts focus mainly on market transactions and on indicators that reflect important factors in creating prosperity, but do not measure prosperity itself.
If you only see yourself as a UK parliamentarian, you will perhaps only be able to answer my question from a UK perspective.
The fact of the matter is that these decisions should be taken at Member State level.
However, we also know that there are many gaps in these economic accounts.
Consider Fukushima.
I would like to thank the Commission and the rapporteur. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to congratulate Jo Leinen on his excellent report.
The environmental economic accounts we are calling for today are not perfect.
This regulation on environmental economic accounts is very important, as has been said here more than once, because at last it establishes a statutory basis for a system of accounts integrating environmental and economic statistics that is crucial for environmental policy, and, in the broader context, social policy.
The Commission's proposal is commendable, although new and complex bureaucratic procedures are being created in order to be able to monitor the environmental policies that Member States actually develop.
However, this proposal will have to be amended during tomorrow's vote so as to ensure that the data collected are reliable and conducive to debate, and also, and above all, to ensure that all the Member States are involved in this approach.
We want to establish and improve quality of life, not only in the workplace, but also in our environment.
I am very confident that we will succeed in strengthening the credibility of Europe and of matters relating to the environment and to the economy as a result of these environmental economic accounts.
It is obvious that we need to harmonise the Member States' existing statistics in order to take the right decisions for the future for the whole of Europe on the basis of the same data.
Equivalent, comparable data from all of the Member States is the goal.
Therefore, the current statistical report is very progressive and forward-looking from the point of view of environmental protection and agriculture. (DE) Mr President, when it comes to statistics, there is always a lot of debate and disagreement.
I think that is important.
I think we all agree on the importance of this proposal and of environmental economic accounts.
For instance, the present Commission made the very first legislative proposal on 10 February 2010 - the day after you had voted in favour of setting up the present Commission - when we adopted a regulation on audit powers for Eurostat, which gives Eurostat the possibility of checking and verifying the quality of statistics at the source, which is very important.
Parliament should also help out in this regard.
Rather than assessing quality of life and the environment on the basis of impressions, we need to come up with better data and better methods of data collection and aggregation so that they deliver an improved service in gauging, for example, the environmental impact made by policies and economic activities.
The regulation concerns the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to various economic sectors and macroeconomic material flow accounting.
