Southern Neighbourhood, and Libya in particular, including humanitarian aspects (debate) The next item is the statement by the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on the Southern Neighbourhood, and Libya in particular, including humanitarian aspects.
Just so you can appreciate the amount that that will give, the current work of the Investment Bank in Egypt is EUR 488 million.
On 23 February, I held a senior officials' meeting with officials from the institutions, the World Bank, the Investment Bank, the EBRD, the IMF, but also senior officials from China, Russia, from Australia, from Korea, from the 27 Member States, from the United States and from Arab countries.
The Commission has increased its assistance to EUR 30 million; my colleague, Commissioner Kristalina Georgieva, went to the Tunisian-Libyan border last week to look at what was happening and to make sure that our engagement was working well.
Together with the Presidency, I activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism on 23 February to help facilitate the evacuation of EU citizens.
We have acted promptly and we have acted well, within the scope of our powers, with the European Union fully endorsing Resolution 1970 of the United Nations Security Council.
On the one hand, our emotion tells us that this criminal must be stopped, that the fratricide in his own country must be stopped, and that we should not exclude any necessary measures to achieve that, including any military ones.
On the other hand, however, we all know how international politics works and that a wrong decision in this area can have wide-ranging and long-term consequences.
Of course, it is easy to say that we will intervene quickly, but even the implementation of a no-fly zone requires us to take the decision to put warplanes in the air and destroy the Libyan air force on the ground.
I therefore advise, urgently, that everything that we do be done within the framework of international law and, specifically, on the basis of a resolution from the United Nations Security Council and - this is the major common denominator - with the involvement of the Arab League and the African Union.
I would like to remind everyone, though, what the Marshall Plan meant for Europe.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I think what we need now, Mrs Ashton, is a very clear message and statement from you and from the European Council on Libya.
I think someone who is killing his own people in huge numbers has lost all legitimacy.
There is a clear consensus in Libyan society: there should be no direct military intervention in Libya.
The European Union - the Council and you - must ask the UN as soon as possible to adopt a resolution on this, creating a no-fly zone and stopping the bombing of cities which are in the hands of the opposition.
This message must be sent today to that region.
The Arab League is talking about a no-fly zone.
The agreement to impose a no-fly zone is primarily intended to create a new balance of power in political terms, to isolate Colonel Gaddafi from the UN, and to say that we will go through either the Security Council or the General Assembly, which voted 100% in favour of excluding Libya from the Human Rights Council.
There are countless ideas.
Clearly, no one is going to bomb Libya, but an aeroplane taking off could, for example, be brought down.
There are options.
I would like to end on the subject of refugees and humanitarian aid.
If we do that, we will be making a very powerful humanitarian and political gesture, and we will be acting in such a way as to ensure that Europe is recognised at last, that Europe's values are recognised, because we are taking action to uphold those values and to ensure freedom in Libya, Tunisia and Egypt. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, this is an extraordinary debate.
As I have always said, Gaddafi remains the Fidel Castro of Africa, although not even Castro would have resorted to such savage violence as we have seen recently from the Gaddafi regime and his sociopathic sons against civilian protestors.
We should now seriously consider recognising the Transitional National Council in Benghazi as the legitimate Libyan Government, so that it could invite military assistance in without the need for recourse to a UN resolution.
I have considerably less understanding, though, for the delay and procrastination in establishing a no-fly zone over Libya.
The European Union can and must help lay the foundation for a post-Gaddafi Libya and for better prospects for the future for this tribal State.
The EU must immediately establish relations with emerging political forces in Libya, namely the Interim Transitional Council, to encourage democratic transition and to ensure that democracy delivers the freedoms, the development and the dignity that the Libyan people are showing us they aspire to. (DE) Mr President, this debate here in the European Parliament makes one thing clear, and that is that we are not neutral when it comes to this conflict.
Gaddafi must go and Europe must play an active role in bringing that about.
Mr President, the momentous events in North Africa may have profound consequences for good or bad for the future prosperity and peace of western civilisation, but we are watching the outcome of a process that began 40 years ago.
The people are calling for freedom and better living conditions.
This means that a no-fly zone - or whatever else - is necessary in order to provide protection and encouragement in order to ensure that those who are fighting for their freedom are not demoralised.
We must leave those people to build their democracy in their way and under their conditions.
The European Council must face up to its responsibilities and carry forward, as part of a decision taken at the UN involving the Arab League and the African Union, the project to impose a no-fly zone so as to prevent Colonel Gaddafi's air force from massacring his people.
Mr Gaddafi is a criminal who, for more than 20 years, has led a State that is still of strategic and crucial importance for the interests of half the world.
This must be the appropriate response for Europe at this time. (ES) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I believe that this debate makes it clear that the entire European Parliament is aware that this transformational crisis in North Africa is no longer a test of European foreign policy, but is now a test of the very viability of Europe having an external policy.
As long as 25 years ago, Ronald Reagan was in no doubt about Gaddafi.
Thank you. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all want to help the people of North Africa to achieve their legitimate objectives.
The people on the ground will choose the way forward, but we must be ready, if they ask us for help, with immediate humanitarian aid.
The first is that we must jointly pull our ambassadors out of Tripoli.
The second is that we must recognise the Transitional National Council as the legitimate body with which we deal in Libya and reach agreement with it over the provision of humanitarian aid.
I, for my part, would like to emphasise two issues: firstly, in the short term, our priority is, in fact, to protect the civilians, whether they be displaced persons fleeing the fighting or Libyans caught in the fire of Colonel Gaddafi's attacks on his own people.
It affects the political future of that entire region and the political future of Europe.
The European Union must also urgently recognise the National Council as the legitimate authority of Libya.
It set out several paths that the Commission would do well to return to, in particular, in terms of its suggestions on how to support the democratic transition processes in progress.
This is why I believe that we must apply the toughest possible sanctions, under a UN mandate of course.
This is also obviously going to happen. (MT) Mr President, the events taking place in the Arab world, and in all the countries in the Arab world, are a beautiful dream that is coming true.
It is true that we have all forged relationships with these countries and their regime.
It is all very well to claim that we should open our doors to Libyan refugees, yet it still remains to be seen whether we will all shoulder the responsibility if the situation arises. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, you have repeatedly had to put up with critical comments from this place.
We must do everything in our power to ensure that economic life in these countries can return to normal and that the people find work. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, I think we also have to look at these events in North Africa and Libya as being part of a kind of historical process.
I think we also need to look at what happened in 1989 in Poland and other countries.
This is why today, when we are debating the future of Libya, we Europeans must be impartial in our assessments, definite in our actions and, most importantly of all, united in our decisions.
Mr President, the European Parliament must be involved.
You rightly pointed out what the European Union has done and has done rather well in humanitarian terms and in terms of the evacuation of European citizens.
We cannot continue to bury our heads in the sand.
I think the first thing we need to do is to recognise the Libyan National Council, a transitional council.
There is no doubt that we must all speak up for a no-fly zone.
I think that right now, the first thing to do is to begin setting out our stall and recognise the Libyan National Council. (DE) Mr President, I would just like to deal briefly once again with the issue of the Southern Neighbourhood Policy and the proposals made by the Commission and Mrs Ashton yesterday.
I think we need a process like an enlargement process, with a Commission to set criteria and a Commission to verify them. (PT) Mr President, we are in solidarity with the Arab peoples in their struggle for freedom, democracy and social progress in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, bearing in mind the specific circumstances of each of these countries.
The Arab League will discuss a no-fly zone on Saturday.
So I think it is unfair to show a picture of Herman Van Rompuy performing his responsibilities as President of the European Council on behalf of all of us in the host country with the person who was hosting the event.
That mandate allows me to do some things, but it mainly requires me to gather together the institutions and the 27 countries in a concerted and joint effort.
I have done more press, I think, than anybody else in the world on all of this.
The recognition of a government is the recognition that is given by the European Council.
I will go from this to discuss with the President of the European Council - whose representative is here - and I will discuss this with the President of the Commission.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 March 2011.
in writing. - The events in Libya and in the southern neighbourhood of the EU are a rebuttal of past policies and a test for future policies.
The European Neighbourhood Policy should stay in place as a policy.
