The Spanish Minister of Industry, Tourism and Trade made this very clear when presenting the Spanish Presidency's priorities to the relevant committee of the European Parliament on 27 January 2010.
The October 2009 European Council adopted the initiative and welcomed the progress made on energy infrastructures and interconnections in the Baltic region, thereby endorsing the information in the Commission's report. (LT) Minister, once again, I would like to thank you for your thoughts and answer.
Therefore, I would like to know how a total deregulation of the energy market can be achieved realistically in this very fragile economic situation.
The European Union and its institutions are being very proactive, giving all their political support to projects such as Nabucco, Nord Stream and South Stream.
Madam President, there is no doubt that the 2020 strategy is probably the most ambitious and important objective for the immediate future, and is going to be at the centre of the debates that are being held in Brussels tomorrow in the informal European Council, and which are taking place at the highest possible political level under the Spanish Presidency.
The proof of this can be seen in the fact that we have begun to tackle the matter already, at the highest level, by holding the informal Council meeting tomorrow in Brussels. (RO) We also now have comments which have come from the stakeholders.
The public consultation about the EU 2020 strategy on the Commission website is over.
We, the Council, are aware that there are a certain number of people practising religion who have been threatened or have been subjected to practices which equate to persecution in China.
The reality of it is that, as regards religious practice in China, Article 36 of the Constitution of the People's Republic states exactly what is involved.
We must be pleased that this change has taken place and because this joint declaration was made official between the European Union and the United States on 15 June last year.
However, there is no doubt that the European Union has been very clear on this matter and has always been against these detention centres, whether they be known detention centres such as Guantánamo, or allegedly secret ones, and we have always been very open in the European Union to finding out the facts as to whether the latter really exist. (PT) Madam President, Minister, thank you for your response.
It is known that last November, the Italian court itself convicted 23 US agents and two Italian officials of the kidnapping of Abu Omar in Milan, and one of the convicted CIA agents admitted to the press that he broke the law and that the decisions had been made in Washington.
The European Council also worked on this matter, and now keeps coming back to it.
Of course the European Parliament has a culture of defending human rights, of which we are proud and also of the European integration, in this sense, as the construction of Europe is based on human rights.
I feel very proud that Europe preserves precisely these objectives and truths in its tradition, in its culture and in its history.
