GM/Opel: current developments (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on GM/Opel: current developments.
On 14 July 2009, Commissioner Kroes and I raised the case of the Opel/Vauxhall group with you here in the European Parliament.
As you know, in autumn 2009, General Motors decided to keep hold of Opel/Vauxhall and to restructure the company.
The current General Motors plan shares a number of characteristics with other restructuring plans prepared previously by General Motors itself and by other interested investors, and does so in certain key areas.
It is consistent with earlier General Motors decisions taken before the start of the crisis, in particular, on the issue of allocating a particular model to a particular production site.
The Commission will remain vigilant and will ensure that, where State aid is involved, the restructuring of Opel/Vauxhall will remain based on economic considerations, that it will not be influenced by non-commercial conditions linked to State financing and, in particular, that the geographical breakdown of the restructuring efforts will not be affected by political demands.
The Commission will continue, of course, to monitor closely all developments within the Opel group.
In this context, you are surely aware that, on 21 January 2010, General Motors officially announced its intention to close the Anvers site in 2010.
Besides, making a single, joint European offer to General Motors would put us in a much stronger position, of course, and also enable us to demand guarantees in the social field - which must surely be close to your heart - and the employment field.
It is not yet too late for this, Commissioner Špidla.
In my opinion, we have been far too soft in our action on this dossier up to now.
I urgently requested that this issue be discussed in plenary once more, not only because it concerns thousands of workers in my back yard, Antwerp in Flanders - you will see that many Members of the European Parliament will take the floor on this issue - but also, in particular, because it concerns a pan-European restructuring operation involving the closure of one plant and the loss of thousands of other jobs.
I should like to ask you, Commissioner and Commission, what your further plans are, as I make no secret of the fact that I am extremely disappointed with Commissioner Kroes' further reiteration today that, in the event of the dossier coming up for discussion, she will apply the rules on State aid.
It is all over the press that EUR 2.7 billion in State aid is to be handed out, and then the Commission comes and tells us that it does not yet have a business plan or dossier.
It is time the Commission took this in hand and not only made statements - as Mrs Kroes and you have done - but also had its services actually obtain the business plan and take a look at whether or not illegal aid has been granted.
Evidently, the European Union does not have access to the business plan, even though - as we all know from the press - Opel is to request EUR 2.7 billion in State aid.
Therefore, when I hear one of your colleagues, Commissioner - Commissioner De Gucht - say that the Commission does not even have access to the business plan, I find this absurd.
Recently, however, the German chemical company Bayer decided to relocate from Antwerp, and that is a bad omen.
If Flanders neglects its chemical sector, it will become Greece on the North Sea, as the Flemish entrepreneur Thomas Leysen put it, and I hope my Flemish friends take note of this. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (NL) I should like to say to Mr Eppink that, between 2000 and 2009, we did make sure that Ford remained open in Belgium, that Volkswagen stayed open and that the Audi 1 is going to be manufactured there, and that this was achieved through a reduction in costs: labour costs, through shift work.
General Motors is not closing Opel Belgium because it is in difficulties: it has made a EUR 3.4 million profit, but this has not prevented it from getting rid of 2 600 jobs.
Let it not be said to us that this is for geographical reasons, because General Motors is getting rid of 10 000 jobs all told.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, may I first say that I have sympathy with the workers in Antwerp, but I would like to point out another couple of issues regarding the EU and General Motors.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has pumped over EUR 160 million into General Motors' operations in Russia and Ukraine, and it owns a 30% equity stake in the General Motors manufacturing plant in St Petersburg.
So I would like to ask the Commission why such extravagant financial support is available to countries such as Ukraine and Mexico but is never available to British companies.
Commissioner, you spoke at length about the informal meetings that have been held based on a summary of a plan, but I did not hear you say anything about a real business plan.
It is, at the same time, very dangerous if such complicated economic problems of large firms can provoke rivalry between EU Member States with signs of protectionism in a specific branch of industry. (DE) Madam President, I am an Austrian and I have asked for the floor because European law is being broken and because this case is topical and, as such, it concerns us all.
I therefore call on the Commission to pay regard, not only to the question of efficiency in the determination of State aid, as you have said Commissioner Špidla, but, above all, to compliance with the rights of information, consultation and participation. (SV) Madam President, we are currently facing what is probably one of the worst economic crises that any of us in this House has experienced.
This figure is 20% in countries such as Latvia and Spain.
It is also the reason why I think that, in the case of a European multinational corporation where a restructuring process is being carried out, it is important for trade unions from other Member States to be involved in the consultation process, as well, as part of the European works council, and not only from the State where the corporation has its head office.
I believe that, as Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs, you, or the person who is going to take up this post, can impose this measure. (PT) Madam President, Opel had a large factory in Portugal, in Azambuja, and employed a total of almost 2 000 workers.
However, the company closed down, abandoned production in Portugal and moved to Spain.
In my opinion, in a period of economic crisis, a more flexible policy is needed in this area - a policy which has been agreed by Member States and the European Commission and is the same for this sector as for other sectors. (DE) Madam President, I have a comment to make on what our fellow Member has said about there not being enough German MEPs attending this debate.
As far as the case raised here is concerned, in other words, the Opel case, it does not involve industrial policy as such.
Ladies and gentlemen, all EU aid must first be directed at people and not at companies, and that is also a fundamental framework for all of our decision making.
