The summit has been carefully prepared by the External Action Service working in close cooperation with the Commission and the two Presidents, preparations built on the debates held in the European Council and the Council, on Russia as a Strategic Partner in late 2010 and in January 2011, on the results of the previous EU-Russia Summit, and the visit by the Russian Government to the Commission in February.
Russia can still achieve WTO accession before the end of 2011 if it can take the necessary decisions to resolve the handful of outstanding issues at multilateral level.
The summit cannot replace negotiations in Geneva, but it can urge Russia to take constructive action.
Finally, we should also use the summit to reconfirm our political commitment to make progress on crisis management cooperation - provided our decision-making autonomy is in no way affected.
The European Union has prepared and agreed in March its proposal for the list of common steps towards the possible establishment of a visa-free travel regime, and we have indeed started negotiations in April.
This is a secondary matter, but it would help if we got the WTO rules through.
Lastly, the import ban on European vegetables (...) (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Commissioner, Russia is undoubtedly a very important partner for the European Union, but - as the Commissioner has already said - a very difficult one.
The idea of a Partnership for Modernisation between the European Union and Russia is a good one.
Right now, Russia is once again attempting to use the issue of energy and energy prices as a political weapon.
It is particularly important for relations between individuals that people enjoy as much freedom of movement as possible between Russia and the European Union.
Russia needs to be aware that the world, and the democratic world in Europe in particular, will be watching closely to see how these elections are carried out; whether the parties are registered correctly and fairly; and also whether certain individuals or certain parties are excluded from the elections at the outset.
That is our desire and our vision.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, we hope that further progress will be made at the summit in Nizhny Novgorod with regard to a new and comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
Russia is a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE; therefore, she must uphold her international commitments and obligations.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, Russia is an important partner for the EU in many respects.
Mr President, Commissioner Füle, while, at first glance, it may seem understandable for Russia to protect itself in order to prevent the spread of Enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) infection into its territory, a complete ban on imports of European vegetables is not what we expect of a country that aspires to join the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The representatives of the EU should therefore make it abundantly clear to President Medvedev that the forthcoming elections to the Duma are a test of the credibility of his reform policy.
The review of these cases by the Fedotov commission is a good first step.
The future participation of the Civil Society Forum established recently in Prague should be an important topic for discussion during the talks and negotiations between the EU and Russia.
The Russian Government should therefore work to bring this about in its own country and endeavour to achieve a partnership for modernisation with civil society.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have been searching in vain for an answer to the question of why we are debating a resolution on the summit with Russia on the eve of the summit itself and voting on it on the day the summit takes place in Nizhny Novgorod.
Firstly, I would like to encourage them to reconsider the importance of Russian energy imports and, secondly, to extend the Partnership Agreement in a way that EU representatives could participate as observers in the elections to be held in December this year and in the Presidential elections to be held in March 2013.
This also precludes using energy as a political weapon, for example.
It is clear that Russia and the European Union have substantial mutual interests in this global order, and in defining these interests, we must ensure that Russia recognises that democracy and the rule of law are also crucial for internal development.
A country without democracy and the rule of law cannot really make progress in the long term for the benefit of its own citizens.
You can count on our support in any case, including as regards some of the more hesitant certain Member States. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, it is hardly conceivable that our relations with Russia are based on an agreement dating from 1994.
At the same time, our cooperation with Russia in the Security Council on the issue of Libya or on Iran's nuclear programme is pleasing.
Otherwise, we will have summits with no real content, and that would not be good either. (PL) Madam President, in my opinion, the most significant aspects of relations with Russia are energy policy and human rights.
Just in the last few days, the Russian authorities have used blackmail to put pressure on Ukraine, making changes in gas prices dependent on the country joining the Russian customs union or a merger between Gazprom and Naftogaz.
Long-term agreements on gas supplies are also a way of influencing the policies of EU Member States.
Prices for Russian gas in Central Europe are already almost twice as high as those offered to Western European countries.
I would like to highlight some points in the joint resolution that the European Parliament will adopt tomorrow.
According to official statistics, the Russian economy is growing at a rate of 4%, despite the economic climate, and this is forecast to continue for a long time.
At the same time, however, it will bring about innovative changes in energy, nuclear energy and international security. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, we are aware that Russia is of significance to the EU, not just where economic matters are concerned, but also as a strategic partner.
There are also problems, however, in the area of the still unimplemented agreement from 2006 in respect of EU airlines.
If the contract is not renegotiated, gas prices on the Russia-Ukraine border may reach EUR 500 per 1 000 m3.
This situation may result in a very serious economic and social crisis in Ukraine.
I would like to make it clear that the European Union has obligations towards Ukraine, given that we are currently successfully negotiating the country's entry into a free trade area or the creation of such an area, and will, in the near future, engage in relations with it as an ally of the European Union.
I would like to see a more constructive engagement of Russia in our efforts to support democratisation, economic and social progress and stability in the six countries in the Eastern Partnership.
Commissioner, I would like to thank you for remembering, when preparing the joint EU-Russia Summit, all of the agendas that are important for the partnership between the EU and Russia. (NL) Madam President, first of all, a very urgent issue.
President Saakashvili is raising the stakes.
The specific case we need to discuss is the ruling by Moscow city court on 24 May to reject the appeal made by Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev against the new seven year sentence.
President Medvedev and prisoner of conscience, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, together in the European Parliament - that would be a sight worth not only the attention of the world's media, but also the heartfelt support of democratic society. (LT) Madam President, this summit is special because it takes place against the backdrop of the forthcoming elections in Russia.
I am pleased that the Member of the Commission mentioned that this issue will be raised at the summit and that there will be a call for the highest international safety standards in nuclear power plants already operating and those that are planned, in both Russia, and of course, the European Union.
The Nord Stream issue is typical in this respect.
As regards the energy sector, Russia must be told that we are opposed to the repeated blackmailing of Ukraine, and that we are opposed to the measures taken by Russian agencies of influence, attempting to belittle the extraction of shale gas in Poland and in Europe.
I am keeping my fingers crossed that this will emerge from the forthcoming talks. (PL) Madam President, on the eve of the EU-Russia Summit, and in the context of negotiations on a new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, it is important for the EU not only to speak with one voice, but to show Russia its unity and solidarity in practice.
At the same time, during tomorrow's summit, the High Representative must urge Russia to ratify the Energy Charter because proper energy cooperation cannot exist between the European Union and Russia unless the principles of transparency, reciprocity, competitiveness and non-discrimination are observed. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I expect that modernisation will be one of the issues discussed during the summit.
I would merely like to remind you that modernising Russia is not merely a matter of economic or energy issues, but also a matter of political modernisation and relations between the authorities and society.
These are very important factors contributing to mutual trust between the European Union institutions and the Member States, on the one hand, and Russia, on the other. (DE) Madam President, firstly, may I say that I was astonished to hear a man such as Mr Mölzer, who is well educated in history, say that there are historical zones of Russian influence in Europe and that this includes parts of the European Union such as Romania.
That does not mean that we do not want a policy of good neighbourliness and dialogue.
Where Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev are concerned, I would state that these individuals must at last be freed - otherwise the state visit by the Russian President to the European Parliament will take place under a huge cloud.
We want to have a partnership with a Russia that is in the process of democratising, but to do that, Russia must democratise - in reality and not just in our wishful thinking.
The basis for all EU-Russia relations in future, however, needs to be the promotion of peace and security and support for democratic values and political and economic freedom.
We must do everything we can to make it easier for people to meet and increase cooperation in the areas of science, art, culture, education and enterprise. (PL) Madam President, there will no doubt be a great many issues covered during the EU-Russia Summit, but one of the most important is anticipated to be the issue of energy security.
Commissioner, I would ask you to tell us plainly whether the European Commission is prepared to make statements to this effect during the summit. (PL) Madam President, in the run-up to the forthcoming summit, we really can say that the European Union lacks a single coherent strategy as regards Russia, and that the current policy of pragmatic cooperation based on a strategy of small steps may very easily fall apart during whatever crisis occurs next, as was the case in 2008 during the war with Georgia, or in 2009 after gas supplies were cut off.
Meanwhile, the European Union should concentrate on guaranteeing gas supplies from non-Russian sources: it should do more to promote the Nabucco pipeline from Azerbaijan, and it should invest in gas terminals and research into extracting shale gas.
It is also very important that pressure continues to be put upon the Russian authorities at various levels to improve the human rights situation in Russia.
Apart from discussion in the framework of the EU-Russia summits, we should ensure that the consultations which take place twice yearly with European Union representatives and diplomats from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs are decisively stepped up. (PL) Madam President, I believe that the Russian authorities should be told that we expect them to behave responsibly.
Russia's membership of the WTO will have a long-term impact on economic relations with the EU.
Russia is a rising country and a developing country in terms of wealth.
We agree on the key importance of our relations with Russia both bilaterally and in multilateral contexts, whether regional or global.
The Russian authorities are well aware that the European Union will be following the 2011 and 2012 electoral processes very closely.
The main forum for addressing human rights and rule-of-law issues is the European Union-Russia human rights consultations.
We have talked about some of these problematic aspects today.
