Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (FI) Madam President, I would just like to say that I voted for this excellent report.
Mrs Paliadeli has done a splendid job in building the European cultural heritage and its very own label.
I believe that the sites that will receive the European Heritage Label will definitely benefit from it.
It is very important that we remember that Europe is united in its diversity, and it is important for us to ensure that the people of the different countries of Europe can discover the mosaiclike European identity on a wider basis.
When people here are leaving the House, it is a little difficult to concentrate, but I hope they will have listened to what I had to say. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Heritage Label is of fundamental importance for a continent that contains the majority of UNESCO sites, and it finally highlights the natural, archaeological, urban and cultural sites that have had an important role in the history, culture and integration of the European Union.
As I thank the rapporteur for her efforts, I should like to offer her my heartfelt congratulations for the negotiations carried out with the Commission for a successful outcome to this initiative, which is so important for the future of the preservation of European culture. (FI) Madam President, I wish to say that the Lifelong Learning programme is one of Europe's success stories, and Mrs Pack should be thanked for her excellent work.
I voted for this report, and I was especially delighted that those who are vigorously opposed to European integration can also see that projects like the Lifelong Learning programme are needed.
Moreover, this will not cost us taxpayers in the European Union anything, as Switzerland is itself paying for its involvement.
It is important that these best practices and best programmes that exist in the European Union are extended in this way.
You would have thought that a country particularly exposed to the financial sector would have suffered unusually during the recent banking crisis, but the Helvetic Confederation in 2009 had a GDP per head 214% of that of the EU.
Between 1998 and 2007, it had real interest rates of -1%.
Instead of helping to bail out the euro in Ireland, we should be helping Ireland to bail out of the euro and to re-establish its own currency, possibly with a temporary link to sterling, allowing it to pay off its loans and to re-establish itself as an independent and prosperous state. (RO) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Andrikienfor her efforts in drafting this report.
I would also like to say that I voted for Amendment 25 in its entirety as I feel that the climate of impunity in Russia is extremely dangerous.
The response from the authorities in Moscow to this initiative actually shows that the Russians are listening to the messages from the European Parliament.
However, the European Union frequently fails to enforce respect for human rights within its own territory.
I would like to draw your attention to the continuing problem of discrimination against minorities, including the Polish minority in Lithuania, an EU Member State which is a signatory to international agreements and treaties on the protection of human rights and minorities.
The powers of the European Parliament have recently been increased.
I think Russian and European Union cooperation can only have real prospects if a transparent solution is found to the Magnitsky and Khodorkovsky cases and those responsible are punished. (FI) Madam President, I voted for Mrs Andrikienė's report.
This lies at the heart of the European Union.
If we treat some people in this way in this Chamber, people whose opinions are perhaps contrary to our own or those of the majority, there is no real justification on our part for criticising countries where there is a democratic deficit.
American NATO troops make a mess in Afghanistan and the European Union then has to step in as guardian angel and take the initiative on the issue.
President, this line of thinking gets one stage worse, if you read paragraph 63 of the report which recommends the involvement of Iran in helping to bring about a solution to the problems in Afghanistan.
I would like to begin by saying that I cannot adequately express my gratitude to the men and women from various of our Member States, as well as our allies overseas, who are pouring their energies into trying to bring peace to that unhappy, if beautiful, land.
I warn the Irish Government not to think it can foist this change to the Lisbon Treaty on the Irish people without a referendum.
Written explanations of vote I voted for the Commission proposal to expand the original concept of the European Heritage Label from an intergovernmental action to a formal EU action as a contribution to a stronger European identity.
I voted in this way because I believe that the proposed purpose of this label should not be just the goal of promoting the internal cohesion of the European Union but also of demonstrating European unity and values outside its borders.
I voted for this resolution on the Commission's proposal to use the European Heritage Label as a tool, among other more efficient ways, to fill in the gap between the European Union and its citizens, as a way to stress that European history is the result of the diverse, yet rich and complementary, common cultural heritage.
I agree that the decision of the Member States to place the European Heritage Label within the framework of the EU will not only help increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will contribute to achieving long-sought ideals of cohesion and solidarity among European citizens.
I believe that the idea of a European Union Heritage Label that aims to increase European citizens' sense of sharing a common heritage (through knowledge of history and participation in activities that promote intercultural dialogue) and envisioning the building of the EU as a long and ongoing process is a step in this direction.
In 2007, several European Union Member States came together to create a European Heritage Label.
That initiative was intended to 'strengthen the support of Europeans for a common European identity and to promote a sense of belonging in a common cultural space' by selecting a certain number of special sites across the continent.
In 2008, the Council of the European Union presented the Commission with its conclusions, inviting the Commission to submit a legislative proposal that would enable us, as was the case with the European Capitals of Culture initiative, to turn this intergovernmental initiative into a real European Union label.
This demonstrates once again that the EU is rooted in strong values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity.
In order to achieve its political goal, the new European Heritage Label should focus on the symbolism and/or educational value of heritage sites.
I would like to stress that the decision of the Member States to place the European Heritage Label within the framework of the EU will not only help increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will contribute to achieving long-sought ideals of cohesion and solidarity among European citizens.
One of the things Europe is very rich in is cultural diversity, which is perfectly reflected in the diversity of its cultural, artistic, architectural and linguistic heritage.
However, although we all share a very rich and comparatively small area, the truth is that, in many cases, we are not very close to or interested in each other.
I therefore think that this initiative could lead to closer ties between European citizens and increase knowledge of European heritage and the common values that we all share, making Europe a truly diverse union.
However, there are also some negative aspects.
However, what is more important than the report's specific objectives are the misconceptions underlying this concept.
The European Heritage Label (or European Union Heritage Label) is based on developing the fallacy of a single European identity and a single European culture based on values such as freedom, democracy, etc.
The image of the European Union and its institutions in the eyes of its citizens is a matter of vital importance.
Promoting knowledge of our common history and common cultural roots may be particularly helpful in the process of bringing the EU closer to its citizens, and also in building a sense of cohesion and solidarity between them.
Today, I voted in favour of the report on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Union action for the European Heritage Label.
I believe that this is an interesting and valuable initiative which will help promote European culture and achievements and contribute to the development of tourism and individual regions.
It is to be welcomed that we have emphasised, as Parliament, that the European Heritage Label will act as a complement to other cultural heritage initiatives, such as the UNESCO World Heritage List and the Council of Europe's Cultural Routes, and not duplicate these initiatives.
in writing. - I welcome the Commission's proposal to use the European Heritage Label as a tool, among other more efficient methods, for bridging the gap between the European Union and its citizens; as a way of stressing that European history is the result of the diverse, yet rich and complementary, common cultural heritage; and as a means of appreciating that the EU is rooted in strong values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity.
The Member States' decision to place the European Heritage Label within the framework of the EU will not only help to increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will also contribute to realising long-sought ideals of cohesion and solidarity among European citizens.
We are cheered by the Commission's proposal to use the European Heritage Label, together with other initiatives, as a tool to bridge the gap between the European Union and its citizens; as a way to stress that European history is the result of a diverse, yet rich and complementary, common cultural heritage.
The decision of the Member States to place the European Heritage Label within the framework of the EU will not only help increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will contribute to finally achieving, on a large scale, the long-sought ideals of cohesion and solidarity among European citizens, creating a common European identity and increasing their interest in the Union and its origins - two fundamental challenges for the European institutions.
Alongside other initiatives, the European Heritage Label is a additional way of bringing the European Union closer to its citizens and strengthening their sense of belonging to Europe.
It will also enable us to further their understanding of the common history and heritage of Europe.
I did not vote in favour of the report because it does not deal in sufficient detail with the need to introduce a cultural heritage label based on the specified objectives.
The decision to place the European Heritage Label within the framework of the European Union will ensure that citizens' sense of belonging to the European Union will increase, stimulating ideals of cohesion, solidarity and integration.
I voted for the report on the European Heritage Label because Europe has set itself the goal of creating a common identity, bringing the EU closer to its citizens through awareness of this rich and diverse historical and cultural heritage with which everyone identifies and through which young people can learn and find out about their own identity, sharing it with the other young Europeans.
I enthusiastically welcome the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a European Heritage Label.
The proposed measure of promoting European heritage using a transnational website appeals to young Europeans and could encourage them to find out more about the continent's history, to familiarise themselves with multinational heritage and shared cultural heritage, and to find out more about the people and ideas that led to the creation of the European Union itself.
I support the intentions expressed in the report of safeguarding the European Parliament and Council's effective participation in selecting the sites and content presented, so as to ensure that the initiative is very transparent and democratic.
The European Union has around 500 million inhabitants, who mostly feel that they are, first and foremost, citizens of their countries of origin, and not European citizens.
The lack of a strong European identity can be seen as an obstacle to European integration, but it is not at all surprising.
This initiative will enable the sense of belonging to Europe to be strengthened, as well as creating greater cohesion between citizens of different countries.
This is why it is important to highlight the places that celebrate and symbolise European integration, as well as those that celebrate the ideas and values of the European Union.
in writing. - The formation of a joint European identity and the growth in interest in the European Union and its genesis are challenges with which the European institutions are faced in their bid to achieve broad cohesion and solidarity.
However, knowledge of the history of our continent, familiarity with its multinational, yet common cultural heritage, and stepping up the education of the younger generation in the ideas and people who led to the building of the European Union may actually contribute to bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens.
As a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Union action for the European Heritage Label.
The idea of establishing an EU label is important from the point of view of making citizens more aware of the European Union's history and cultural heritage, and of building a European identity and links between countries.
By selecting sites in the individual Member States which have applied to be granted the EU's European Heritage Label, we will make people more aware of the fact that Europe's history affects all of us, regardless of where we live, our language or our culture.
The European Heritage Label initiative is intended to promote the cities, people and activities that have contributed to the process of European integration.
The list of sites awarded a European Heritage Label will act as a kind of map of our continent's traditions and culture, and a map of places that have played a key role in forming the European identity.
This initiative will create a platform for cooperation between the countries and regions of Europe.
The scheme should operate in parallel and as a complement to UNESCO's international scheme and the European Capitals of Culture, since the European Heritage Label operates on the level of educational and symbolic values and, to a lesser extent, aesthetic and architectonic qualities.
On the other hand, I hope that this award will help us return to traditional European values, and awarding the label will truly be an expression of recognition.
As Switzerland is willing to participate in human, economic and social terms in this project involving young people, the European Union can only benefit from including the young people of third countries like Switzerland in the process of raising awareness of the EU integration process amongst the younger generations.
Switzerland participating in the 2007-2013 'Youth in Action' and Lifelong Learning programmes will give these programmes an additional impetus and will create opportunities for participant exchanges, for sharing experience, while, at the same time, preserving financial and other EU interests.
The 'Youth in Action' programme is intended to develop and support cooperation in the European Union youth field.
That is why I voted in favour of this legislative resolution that embraces Switzerland in these important actions.
I voted for this recommendation prepared by the European Parliament because I approve of the Council's draft Decision on Switzerland's participation in the 'Youth in Action' and Lifelong Learning programmes.
This agreement is appropriate because Switzerland is committed to complying with the conditions and provisions laid down by the European Commission.
The two programmes in question support lifelong learning and the inclusion of young people in European integration, through tolerance and solidarity between young Europeans.
The agreement between the Commission and Switzerland is adequate, given that Swiss participants in these programmes apply on an equal footing with all other young Europeans, and that Switzerland is committed to adapting to European rules and their supervision, as well as to contributing to both programmes financially.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of this report in my capacity as the Chairman of the European Parliament delegation for relations with Switzerland.
The aim of this proposal is to provide for the participation of Switzerland in the Youth in Action and Lifelong Learning programmes.
Switzerland's participation in the 'Youth in Action' programme demonstrates that cooperation with the European Union, particularly in the field of education, is of great importance to the country.
As a member of the Delegation for relations with Switzerland and Norway, I voted for this report as I think that the agreement signed between the Commission and the Swiss authorities is completely appropriate and in their mutual interest.
In February 2008, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations about Swiss participation in the two programmes.
The participation of Switzerland, a country that chose not to be a part of the European Union, in the 'Youth in Action' programme and in the action programme in the field of lifelong learning cannot be ruled out a priori, but should be carefully evaluated.
I therefore support the terms of the agreement reached between the Commission and the Swiss Government, so I voted for the report by Mrs Pack.
It is right to grant the benefits of the programmes to Switzerland, but it is also right to safeguard all the financial and other interests of the European Union.
The conclusion of this agreement on Switzerland's participation in the 'Youth in Action' programme and the action programme in the area of education and lifelong learning is a very positive consequence of that.
It can be applied to every level of education and training; it concerns every stage of life and all the different forms of learning.
Furthermore, it is important to encourage young people to take part in public life, particularly those with fewer opportunities or with disabilities, and to foster initiative, enterprise and creativity in order to promote a sense of active European citizenship, develop solidarity and encourage tolerance.
I cannot fully agree to the regulations described in this report, which is why I have voted against it.
I voted for the recommendation on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation establishing the terms and conditions for the participation of the Swiss Confederation in the Youth in Action programme and in the Lifelong Learning programme (2007-2013), because I believe that the agreement negotiated with the Swiss authorities by the Commission is fairly positive, increasing the programme's benefits in Switzerland and safeguarding the European Union's interests, not least its financial interests.
In February 2008, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations on Swiss participation in the two programmes.
An agreement was reached in August 2009 and the Council has already adopted a Decision approving its signature and provisional application from 2011.
The agreement negotiated with the Swiss authorities by the Commission is quite adequate: it extends the benefits of the programmes to Switzerland, while safeguarding the financial and other interests of the EU.
Member States' experiences of programmes facilitating educational exchanges for young people show clearly that they not only promote a good education, but also play a positive role in terms of European integration thanks to acquisition of the languages, cultures and traditions of individual countries.
At the same time, the Lifelong Learning programme represents an excellent opportunity to draw attention to the role of women in Switzerland.
It takes a great deal of cheek for the political representatives of capital to proclaim the EU as the guardian of human rights when it is in the process of adopting the new, even more reactionary NATO 2020 doctrine and is first in line when it comes to exploiting the people and natural resources and supporting puppet and reactionary regimes.
The report this year notes the continuation of grave violations in this area and a situation aggravated by the economic crisis, climate change, new technologies and the fight against terrorism.
It recommends that the objectives of the Treaty of Lisbon be implemented, in particular, through the new European External Action Service.
Mrs Andrikienė, rapporteur of the text, states that the priority of a consistent European foreign policy should be to promote democracy and human rights.
I voted in favour of the annual report on human rights in the world 2009 and the European Union's policy on the matter, because it examines, assesses and, in specific cases, provides an analysis of the European Union's work in the field of human rights and democracy and future challenges.
As far as violence against women is concerned, the European Parliament expresses its deep concern about the entrenched gender-based discrimination and domestic violence in several countries, and points out that women living in rural areas are a particularly vulnerable group.
This is an exercise that is unmasking itself as it goes through the obvious contradictions that it contains, not least in making use of an alleged defending of human rights to promote intervention in countries where its own interests are at stake, whitewashing its allies and supporting them, particularly the United States.
It is unacceptable that human trafficking is still a state of fact in Europe affecting hundreds of thousands of people mostly from vulnerable social groups, such as minorities, women and children for reasons of sexual exploitation, forced labour, modern-day slavery, and others.
Moreover, it should include in its political dialogues with non-EU countries policy norms, standards and principles of the international human rights system for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - (LV) I am voting for this resolution and the proposal for a categorical demand to be made to the Russian authorities to bring the persons guilty of the murder of the Russian lawyer, Sergei Magnitsky, to justice, and I call on Parliament to consider the possibility of denying Russian officials involved in this case entry to the European Union, and of freezing these officials' bank accounts and other assets in all EU Member States.
It is important for Parliament as a whole also to devote its attention to this subject.
There are still countries whose governments persistently violate human rights, yet there are also those where changes are afoot.
in writing. - The annual report on human rights is inevitably a backward-looking exercise but I nevertheless welcome it.
This report deals with the period July 2008 to December 2009, just before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty.
The report on human rights in the world 2009 and the European Union's policy on the issue form an extremely important tool to reinforce the role of the European External Action Service (EEAS) with regard to human rights policy.
It is therefore right to call on the High Representative to incorporate freedom of religion or belief into EU human rights policy and to give a thorough evaluation of the situation of freedom of religion or belief in the EU annual report on human rights.
I am voting in favour of the report by Mrs Andrikienė.
The European Union needs to do whatever it can to ensure that the principles and freedoms governing human rights are applied, so that it can play a leading role in this sector.
The European Union must also supervise and closely monitor infringements of human rights in its Member States.
The report on human rights in the world 2009 is very detailed and addresses a wide variety of issues.
However, this requires a clear approach and a definite, consistent strategy for resolving these problems, some of which are extremely difficult.
Since there is no sign of such a strategy, I abstained during the final vote.
Although it is more than 60 years since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was signed, there are still many places in the world where this Declaration is nothing but a piece of paper.
I therefore congratulate my colleague, Mrs Andrikienė, for preparing a really comprehensive report, and for drawing attention to the complex situation worldwide.
In my amendments to this report, which were adopted by the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs, I urge the Commission and the Council to ensure that in relations with third countries, compliance with the EU Guidelines on Children and Armed Conflicts is mandatory.
This report on the annual report on human rights in the World (2009) and the European Union's policy on the matter details, exhaustively, human rights violations across the globe.
The European Parliament's unshakeable determination and longstanding efforts to defend human rights and democracy across the globe by applying a firm and effective policy in defending human rights in the EU should be recalled here.
I therefore join the rapporteur in calling on the European External Action Service to comply fully with the objective and spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, to ensure that respect for human rights and its promotion is at the heart of the various fields of intervention of Union external policy.
The practice of the death penalty close to home in Belarus, hangings and stonings in Iran, female genital mutilation in Somalia, mass rapes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the murdering of journalists in Russia, 215 million children working, arbitrary detentions, unfair trials, censorship, and so many other barbarities that require the European Union to be steadfast and uncompromising.
The universality of these values must take precedence over geopolitics, once again cynically revealed on 10 December 2010 when 15 countries made a cowardly response to China's express request that they boycott the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to the Chinese citizen, Lu Xiaobo.
I should like to congratulate Mrs Andrikienon her excellent work.
In fact, the greatest hope for human rights is the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon in terms of foreign policy: The European External Action Service must reflect the priorities and the spirit of the Treaty.
One of the priorities of a coherent foreign policy should be the promotion of democracy and human rights.
Among the positive points: First of all, the amendment in two parts relating to Magnitsky was adopted with a large majority (+318, -163 and 95 abstentions).
S&amp;D and ALDE amendments were all adopted (LGBT, death penalty/lethal injection).
Notwithstanding the fact that the European Union's external policy has made some important strides in recent years, the road to adopting a shared and coherent policy for the promotion of human rights is still a long one.
This should never be forgotten.
Thanks to the amendments of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, a chapter has been included on the role of human rights in the newly-established European External Action Service (EEAS).
This is very important given the fact that, as a new instrument, the EEAS is able to provide us with an opportunity to review the EU's human rights policy and to defend human rights worldwide in a more coherent and decisive way.
I therefore support 100% the proposal to appoint a high representative, who, together with his/her service, will coordinate the Union's human rights policy on a permanent basis.
I believe that international aid should be channelled directly to the Afghan authorities, thereby circumventing intermediaries.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution and supported a pragmatic approach towards Afghanistan and the new counter-insurgency policy which is geared to protecting the local population and rebuilding areas where security has been ensured.
We have to pay tribute to the servicemen and women of all the Allied Forces who have lost their lives in defending freedom, and to express condolences to their families, as well as to the families of all innocent Afghan victims.
The situation in Afghanistan is still a concern.
For these reasons, I supported Parliament's resolution calling for a new strategy for Afghanistan.
The Afghan Government must be free to find its modus vivendi with all the groups that make up Afghan society.
I abstained during the vote on the report on the new strategy for Afghanistan.
The report does indeed contain several positive points and it acknowledges the highly unfortunate aspects of the current situation and the responsibility of the international community, especially NATO, the EU and the Member States, which are involved in various ways in the war in Afghanistan and the 'management' of its 'reconstruction'.
The report also highlights the fact that the distribution of money and international aid does not reach the Afghan people.
Within this framework, and in accordance with the international commitments that have been made in the context of NATO, the military presence in Afghanistan should be progressively reduced, while maintaining international support for peacekeeping and security with a view to post-intervention stability.
Preventing civilian massacres remains a priority, of course, but we must not deny ourselves the use of drones, which are performing well in the areas around the border with Pakistan.
in writing. - This report highlighted many of the problems facing Afghanistan.
The anti-war movement has warned of these problems since the start of the war.
I abstained on amendments calling for more support to the Afghan State.
The report highlights very well the many problems affecting that country.
The report even says that between 2002 and 2009, more than USD 40 billion in international aid was channelled into the country.
Furthermore, the costs of the war in Afghanistan over the period 20012009 amounted to more than USD 300 billion.
However, these enormous sums of money are not doing the Afghan people any good.
in writing. - (LV) I fully support the report where it calls for efforts to reconstruct Afghanistan and an improvement in the human rights situation.
The government of Afghanistan must make more purposeful use of international aid to develop small enterprises and agriculture in regions where opium is currently grown.
The European Union's investment in rebuilding Afghanistan is significant, but there is still much more to do.
I should like to stress that a premature withdrawal of forces from Afghanistan would not only be dangerous for the local population and a threat to the democratic world, but it would also thereby destroy all the good that has been achieved in Afghanistan.
Although I do not support every conclusion he draws, I did vote for this well thought-out and useful contribution to the debate on Afghanistan.
He is also aware that it is not possible to foist democracy and Western values on the people of Afghanistan.
However, the rapporteur must be criticised for harping on themes such as women's rights which, although very important, are completely unacceptable at local level and therefore render the entire peace process even less likely.
The Member States of the European Union who are fighting at America's side in the war in Afghanistan should withdraw their troops from this country as quickly as possible.
It is for that reason that I have voted against this report.
I fully support a strategy aimed at protecting the population and reconstructing areas where security is guaranteed, as well as political solutions in which all involved parties are called into the negotiations.
I unreservedly support Parliament's call for the Commission to ensure total transparency in the financial assistance provided to the Afghan Government, international organisations and local NGOs.
in writing. - The report adopted today is based on the extensive consultations that the rapporteur has been engaged in over the past six months on the situation in Afghanistan and its relations with the international community, in an attempt to explain why so little has been achieved in Afghanistan in spite of the huge amounts of money and effort expended over the past nine years.
The gap between hope and reality in Afghanistan has become more striking than ever, and a new EU strategy in that country should thus start from this premise.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that with this document, the European Parliament is strengthening its role in its relations with the Commission.
I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that it is of the utmost importance for Parliament to be able to fully and timely exercise its prerogatives and for the Commission to actively inform Parliament about all draft measures, amended draft measures and final draft measures that it intends to adopt under Article 291 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides that, where uniform conditions for implementing legally binding Union acts are needed and implementing powers are conferred on the Commission, the control on the exercise of such implementing powers by the Commission rests with the Member States alone.
That is why I voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation laying down the general principles for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers.
in writing. - I could not vote for this report because it sacrifices some of the European Parliament's hard won new powers in international trade for the expediency of an agreement with the Council on implementing powers in other areas.
There have always been efforts to centralise control within the European Union.
These efforts seem to have increased recently in tandem with a rise in bureaucracy, despite all the statements to the contrary.
In particular, I fully support the need to strengthen the decision-making and implementation process, providing the Commission with the requisite instruments in the common interest of the European Union, the Member States and all economic operators.
I support the principle that the Commission should adopt definite anti-dumping and countervailing measures and that the Member States should vote on the basis of a qualified majority.
This report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation laying down the rules and general principles on control mechanisms by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers is motivated by the new rules on implementing acts introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
Only the test of new legislation, heavily amended by the European Parliament and the Council, will be able to indicate whether the route set out will result in the effectiveness and implementation of European policies.
The war against the workers, the self-employed and small-scale farmers is a strategic choice by the bourgeois governments and the EU in order to support the profitability of capital.
The debt and deficit are simply a pretext.
All the national governments in the Member States of the euro area and the EU are being called upon to step up the adoption and application of even more savage, barbaric and anti-labour and anti-grassroots measures coordinated by the EU, the ECB and the IMF.
On Thursday, 16 December 2010, the Heads of State or Government agreed to maintain the financial solidarity mechanisms established several months ago in response to the crisis.
The EU will see the launch of the European Systemic Risk Board, responsible for the macro-prudential oversight of the financial system in order to avoid periods of widespread financial distress and contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market, thereby ensuring a sustainable contribution on the part of the financial sector to economic growth.
I approve of the proposal to establish a permanent European Stability Mechanism and so further reinforce economic governance, in order to be able to ensure effective and rigorous economic surveillance and coordination, which will focus on prevention.
I agree with the proposal set out in the resolution that Member States outside the euro area should have the possibility to be involved in the creation of this mechanism and they should be given the opportunity to obtain financial assistance if necessary.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution which discusses the need for Member States to establish a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area as a whole.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on establishing a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area, given that this kind of mechanism has become a necessity in the current economic and financial crisis.
Having a permanent crisis mechanism is beneficial to all Member States, including those which have not yet adopted the euro, given the interdependency among Europe's economies.
The resolution also insists on imposing penalties on Member States that do not comply with the rules established, notably in the Stability and Growth Pact, which will exacerbate the situation as a whole of those countries with weaker economies.
in writing. - We voted against CCCTB but did not want to defeat other important aspects of this report.
in writing. - I voted for the EP resolution on the permanent crisis mechanism specifically because of the fact that during the debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the texts relating to establishment of a minimum corporate tax rate in the EU of 25% were deleted.
This is a vitally important issue for the countries in the euro area, and for the remaining Member States of the European Union.
Over 150 million EU citizens live outside the euro area.
The resolution does not solve any problems in and of itself, but it can send a strong signal to the Council and the Commission and to the Member States.
The resolution gives voice to Parliament's firm intention to strengthen the Union approach and European solidarity.
I shall therefore vote against this report, which I also condemn.
I am therefore voting against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - Among other things, this resolution calls on the European Council to specify as soon as possible the Treaty changes required in order to establish a permanent ESM.
Parliament recalls that it has welcomed the establishment of a financial stability mechanism to address the risks of default by sovereign borrowers, partly using Article 122 TFEU as the legal basis of this plan, and that it has noted the inherent democratic deficit and lack of accountability of the Council's rescue package decisions, which did not include consultation with the European Parliament.
In the interests of the welfare of the people of Côte d'Ivoire and peace in the country, I therefore support the appeal to Mr Laurent Gbagbo and the call for him to step down and hand over power to Mr Alassane Ouattara, to whom the electorate gave their votes as a sign of their trust.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution calling on Mr Gbagbo to respect the results of the polls and make way immediately for his legitimate successor.
The text also supports the action of the African Union, which is currently putting pressure on the country in order to ensure a return to democracy.
The only viable solution is for the will of the electorate to be respected.
The situation in Côte d'Ivoire is to be condemned at all levels.
On 28 November 2010, Mr Ouattara was declared the legitimate winner of the presidential elections by the Independent Electoral Commission of Côte d'Ivoire (CEI) and by almost the entire international community.
The political situation in the Côte d'Ivoire is extremely critical.
However, in this case, we are not faced with the will of the people of the Côte d'Ivoire, but rather with the tyrannical subjugation of this people by an established elite.
It is important that these powers should not be driven from their positions by violent means.
However, it is equally important that peaceful means should be used to put pressure on these persons, so as to make it difficult for them to continue with their unjust policies.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
This resolution is motivated by the serious political and institutional crisis taking place in Côte d'Ivoire following the second round of the presidential elections on 28 November 2010.
in writing. - Huge consensus, today, on the vote on the situation in Côte d'Ivoire.
I think it was a good idea for the Commission to attend Parliament today to report on the ban on the use of unenriched cages for laying hens, which will enter into force from January 2012.
The implementation data are not very encouraging and, hence, very tough action is required against Member States that, out of indolence, have not made any progress for a while.
The prohibition of these cages has been known since 1999, and those Member States that joined later were perfectly aware of having to take action on this issue according to precise timescales.
It is therefore important to know that the Commission can show what progress has been achieved by the Member States in preparing for the ban on the rearing of laying hens in conventional batteries from 1 January 2012, what measures it will take against Member States whose producers do not comply, and what measures it will take to prevent potential unfair competition from third countries in the EU egg market from 1 January 2012.
After 1 January 2012, eggs laid by hens kept in battery cages of less than 550 cm will no longer be sold.
Producers and Member States have been called to order so that they will act quickly, particularly considering that, to date, they have had more than 12 years to comply with legislation.
The issue raised here is fundamental, not just from the point of view of animal hygiene and welfare, but also the need to ensure the applicability and effectiveness of Directive 1999/74/EC, preventing potential distortions of competition.
The banning of conventional battery cages in 2012 represents an enormous success for animal welfare.
This means that there should be no more conventional battery cages in use in Europe after 2012.
The ban on rearing laying hens in traditional cages enters into force in January 2012.
Firstly, for the principle of reciprocity, the European Commission is asked to implement a monitoring system to supervise the quality of eggs imported into the European Union and guarantee total respect of European standards and rules.
Subsequently, the Member States are asked to include measures in their regional development plans to support the laying-hen sector in this difficult time.
in writing. - I strongly support this resolution which demands that all the provisions of Directive 1999/74/EC on the welfare of laying hens be fully implemented by all Member States by the deadline of 1 January 2012.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of Amendment 2 initiated by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) because a large number of producers have already started to invest with a view to modernising their rearing systems or are at the point of launching such investments.
Council Directive 1999/74/EC stipulates that from 1 January 2012, unenriched cages can no longer be used.
European farmers will have to choose whether to convert their systems to use enriched cages - which are more spacious, to improve the animal's wellbeing - or to rear laying hens on the ground, outside, or in organic systems.
Real difficulties in adapting to the new system before the deadlines set by the directive have been observed.
Through the Agriculture and Fisheries Council meeting of 22 February 2010, the European Commission has stated that no exceptions are provided for in the application of the ban.
An amendment to the resolution, however, meant that a possible alternative solution was reached for those producers who have started to replace their systems of rearing in favour of the new cages.
I therefore voted for it.
To prove it, not only did the European Union legislate on the subject by means of a 1999 directive prohibiting battery cages for laying hens from 1 January 2012, but the transposition of that text also caused a disagreement between the Walloons and the Flemish in 2004.
That is why I supported the three amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which reflect the everyday reality for all European breeders.
I definitely support the idea that a solution must be found to cases where a producer has already started to replace the cages, but will presumably not complete this process before the expiry of the twelve-year grace period.
For this reason, I voted for the proposed amendment.
The difficulties faced by many European producers in adapting to the regulations that are to enter into force as of 1 January 2012 will bring about a shortage of table eggs on the market and a significant rise in the price of such eggs, a fall in the sector's competitiveness compared to imported eggs from third countries, and, most likely, production being stopped or greatly scaled down.
