Second European Roma Summit (debate) The next item is the oral questions to the Council and Commission regarding the second European Roma Summit. (B7-0013/2010; B7-0014/2010; B7-0202/2010; B7-0203/2010).
Both points are important, but I would like to suggest that it is very important how these problems are going to be solved.
In these six years, I have also listened to several discussions about discrimination against ethnic Roma and the need for solutions to ethnic Roma problems.
In 2009, for example, on average, one in every four Roma was a victim of a crime against the person - specifically assaults, threats and serious harassment - on at least one occasion in the course of the previous 12 months whilst, at the same time, one in every three Roma was questioned by the police on average four times in the course of the previous 12 months.
This situation, which affects almost 10 million people at the heart of the European Union, which is now endowed with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and will soon be a signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights, casts serious doubts over the policy of non-discrimination and effectiveness of rights, both at EU and Member State level.
It took the racist violence in Italy in December 2007 to have a large-scale, high-level European mobilisation finally result in the organisation of the first European summit in September 2008.
In this year for combating poverty, I believe that we can at last decide to make the best use of our instruments and our Structural Funds with a view to resolving this serious situation.
The second question concerns the action to be taken by local authorities.
The third question asks whether the Trio of Presidencies has a strategic proposal or a strategic agenda for this issue.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Swoboda and his colleagues for tabling this oral question on the European Roma Summit.
As you know, this debate is taking place just some weeks before the second Roma Summit, which will be hosted in Córdoba by the Spanish Presidency on 8 and 9 April.
The Commission welcomes and actively supports this initiative.
I think this initiative will be a welcome moment to take stock of developments at national, European and international level since 2008.
Your question rightly highlights the central role of the European Union's instruments and policies and the importance of strengthening cooperation between all the key actors - Member States, institutions at European level, international organisations and civil society.
The first event took place in October 2009 in Hungary with the full cooperation of the government.
Finally, thanks to the European Parliament, there are the pilot projects on Roma inclusion, with a budget of EUR 5 million over two years.
I am very much looking forward to this evaluation because the evaluation will bring us the information about what we have done well and where the deficiencies are so that we can build on this in order to go ahead with a very targeted action afterwards.
The European platform for Roma inclusion was launched as a joint initiative of the Commission and the Czech Presidency in April 2009.
These conclusions call upon the Commission to take the 10 common basic principles for Roma inclusion into account when designing and implementing policies.
The Commission will continue to contribute to the Trio's actions through its policies and instruments, in close partnership, of course, with Member States and civil society.
In addition to a more effective implementation of the international and national anti-discrimination laws, as we just heard from Commissioner Reding, particular emphasis must be given in Córdoba to the economic aspect of the inclusion of the Roma, because their integration in the labour market and education is a key economic interest of the Member States.
In recent years, a number of international organisations have developed forward-looking plans, but they have not been implemented at Member State level due to a lack of binding power, of the prospect of potential sanctions and of appropriate budget allocations.
The Open Society Institute talks about prejudice and violence faced by Roma communities across Europe not decreasing.
So let this oral question be a bid to refresh this debate and come up with new solutions and implement those laws which already exist which should be helping Roma communities.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, in view of the second Roma Summit, I would like to share with you a couple of ideas in the hope that they will take effect as soon as possible.
Firstly, I do not think it a good thing that many Roma remain stuck in the role of victim.
In almost every conversation I had, I was told that, not only in Kosovo, but also in many countries in Europe, the situation is dire for one of the oldest population groups in Europe, namely the Roma.
Immediate action requires the recognition and assumption that these directives are not sufficient to protect the Roma in the European Union from degrading and discriminatory treatment and - most importantly - to enable their permanent integration.
We urgently need measures for the economic development of the Roma communities.
The EU must not wait until 2014 to make its structural and regional funding more flexible; it must do so now, so that the Roma can also benefit from it.
The EU bears a lot of the responsibility for the extent to which, it is to be hoped, we will soon succeed in bringing about justice for the more than 10 million Roma in Europe, because it starts with justice and should continue with equality.
It needs to be objectively acknowledged that even after a thousand years of searching for such a model, we have failed to find a way to integrate the Roma properly into our society.
Indeed, we need a common European strategy, but this should be a strategy which faces all aspects of the issue and intends to find a solution by examining them with honesty. (ES) Mr President, I shall begin by congratulating Mrs Járóka on defending the Roma population within European Union institutions.
The Roma population's situation is different from that of other national minorities in Europe, which is why we need to adopt specific measures concerning them.
The 2009 report of the European Parliament on the social and labour market situation of the Roma was an important landmark, and we are half-way through the Decade of Roma Inclusion, which is also an important programme.
In order to make our strategy successful, we need to see the extent to which the structural and cohesion funds have been utilised, and whether and in which circumstances they contributed to the social integration of the Roma.
Inclusion of the Roma must be incorporated in every European Union policy in order to put an end to the discrimination suffered by these European citizens.
The problems faced by Roma women are particularly striking, for example, in relation to marital violence or unwanted pregnancies.
The average age for the first pregnancy is 17.
I hope that, at the second European summit on Roma inclusion, the European Union will show its determination to deal with the Roma issue in a comprehensive fashion. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Roma issue is becoming increasingly complex and requires effective and immediate responses.
Their representatives, the institutions, associations and a section of civil society, are calling for their inclusion in the socio-economic fabric, but rarely is the essential point brought to the fore; namely that integration is a two-sided, historical and cultural process.
The challenge should not be tackled with demagogy: we ask that the issue be approached with due pragmatism and bearing in mind that the worrying economic and employment situation will be a factor that makes inclusion of the Roma people in the labour market more difficult.
It is a situation which concerns the entire European Union since the Roma community are the largest ethnic minority in Europe.
In particular, the opportunity to work, to exploit their capabilities, to live a dignified life and to be successful must be provided to these people.
I hope that our message in this Chamber, in this Parliament, our message of solidarity with the Roma people, is received in view of next month's summit. (ES) Mr President, the 10 million Roma people in Europe would constitute a medium-sized Member State of the European Union, if they were a State.
The Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights has said that, in certain countries in the European Union, Roma migrants are not treated in the same way as other European migrants, which is a flagrant violation of the right to free movement.
Issues like this one have to form part of a joint call for a European strategy for Roma inclusion.
We need that strategy; we need that strategy because the European Union is also losing credibility at international level.
Many countries are singling us out because of this issue.
Unemployment, poverty, abuse, discrimination and, last but not least, reduced access to education, are all problems which the Roma minority frequently encounter and which ultimately lead to social exclusion.
One specific measure would be to include these children and young people in the compulsory schooling system, thereby preventing them from dropping out of school.
In the 2009-2010 school year, the Romanian Ministry of Education allocated 7 483 special places in the country's secondary schools, with only 2 460 pupils registering for them, of which 2 246 were admitted.
The lack of education prevents Roma from taking an active part in the social, economic or political life of the country in which they live.
The European Union supports the Roma's integration into society through different funding programmes such as the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, as well as the Progress and 'Youth in Action' programmes.
It should demonstrate clear European commitment to considering a fully fledged political and operational strategy that would, in addressing Roma issues, go beyond obvious human rights perspectives, fundamental as they are, towards real economic and social inclusion.
We need an integrated strategy policy and an action plan cutting across all areas relevant to economic and social belonging.
We expect from the Commission a clear allocation of the responsibilities for this matter and effective coordination between all relevant services.
We expect the EUR 5 million pilot project currently implemented by the Commission to pave the way for efficient and effective solutions in the areas that matter most: early childhood education and economic inclusion, and provide progress on policy learning and evaluation.
We appreciate the Commission' efforts, especially those by the Regional Policy DG, and we encourage the Commission to further enhance local and regional involvement in practical action strengthening the economic inclusion of Roma society.
So let me conclude by saying that we must treat the Córdoba Summit as a last call for real inclusion of the Roma. (HU) As a developer of the first medium-term government programme for Europe on the Roma issue and the rapporteur of the 2002 Roma report of the Council of Europe, I agree with those stating that this is one of the most complex issues of Europe today.
Evidently, the Roma are not simply an ethnic and national minority, but are also a multiply disadvantaged social minority.
The social responsibility is asymmetrically distributed between the majority and the minority, because the majority has far more responsibility, but the minority, in this case the Roma, also has its own responsibility.
We need the European level, but success is to be reached at Member State and local level.
This is why I support the strategy of the Union. (RO) The economic and social development of the Roma minority group is one of the most delicate and controversial issues which the states in Central and Eastern Europe face.
However, we know that the Roma minority is the largest and poorest cross-border ethnic minority.
The European Union needs to have a coherent long-term approach because national policies are inadequate when it comes to changing the Roma's situation.
Children and young people are included in few of the current policies and strategies, even though the large number of children and young people in the Roma population makes them the generation of change.
The process of sustainable development must start from a generation of children who have access to education, medical aid and all the opportunities which children from the majority population enjoy.
This is why I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission proposal on the EU 2020 strategy does not contain any objectives for resolving the problems of the Roma community.
If we are not going to take specific measures and if we are not going to make major changes in terms of approach, millions of young Roma will continue to face social exclusion and marginalisation throughout their entire lives.
This is why we must shift from the political will to taking measures to actually put them into practice. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent public opinion survey, 76% of Czechs do not want to have Roma as neighbours.
We should make a common effort in this direction in the future. (RO) I would like, right at the start, to express the hope that the Roma Summit in Córdoba will be the crucial time for adopting a common strategy devoted to Roma inclusion.
The living conditions of this community remain unacceptable and discrimination against them is increasing, in spite of the fact that the sums allocated in recent years to projects aimed at improving their situation are approaching EUR 0.5 billion.
I also believe that we need to have a social and cultural approach so as to avoid increasing the already existing inequalities in terms of both literacy and employment levels.
With this in mind, I call on the Commission to encourage labour market access programmes for Roma migrants and cooperation between the local authorities and Roma communities, and to consider closer collaboration with non-governmental organisations. (SL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr López Garrido, first of all, I should like to congratulate Spain on adding this summit to its list of priorities.
At the same time, allow me also to congratulate the Commission for deciding to prepare a comprehensive report on the position of the Roma in Europe.
However, it has only become topical in recent years, with the enlargement of the European Union.
The Treaty of Lisbon has provided us with an additional legal basis, enabling us to approach more thoroughly the development of a comprehensive and powerful strategy for the resolution of the Roma question, in the framework of what is commonly termed 'soft law'.
It is clear that we are not in a position to develop a common Roma policy at EU level, because the primary competence in this regard rests with Member States.
However, what we can develop are some indicators and a common database; we can exchange good practice and, here, Member States can be of great help to each other.
I believe that the first step towards a coherent inclusion strategy must be to guarantee the young generation of Roma non-discriminatory access to education.
This is the only measure which can play a crucial role in facilitating change so that the Roma can be integrated into the labour market and escape the vicious circle of social exclusion. (RO) The Roma is a cross-border ethnic and cultural community numbering more than 10 million across Europe.
Important initiatives have been launched in this area, but I believe that we need to go further.
However, consistent financial support is required from Europe in order to achieve the desired results. (HU) For Gipsy children, Roma children, the only way to break out of their situation is to attend school on a regular basis.
However, I am also in favour of speaking quite openly about how the rights of Roma children are being repressed by their own parents.
At the next summit, let us also talk about how the Roma themselves, above all, must be active in solving their own problems; first, regarding the education of their children, but also about their personal involvement in the process of improving their own living conditions.
They will be taken on board by Commissioner Andor and myself when we present our communication before the summit.
In this communication, it will also be made very clear that the Commission cannot and will not accept that the Roma are discriminated against and excluded from our society because of their ethnicity.
The Commission pursues this approach in the European platform for Roma inclusion and with its internal procedures.
For instance, I would like to quote the World Bank's study on the economic cost of Roma exclusion and to see that this is a very important piece of evidence showing that we need to find solutions for the sake of our society in general.
So there must be some problem with the computer.
Therefore, as we approach the second European Roma Summit in Córdoba, we must discuss the social problems faced by Roma and the means of solving these problems.
Moreover, we must draw attention to the fact that Roma not only experience direct discrimination, but face implicit, indirect discrimination, for example, the failure to employ Roma and, at the same time, their non-integration into social life.
Therefore, I agree that we must call on the European Commission to encourage Member State governments and regional and local authorities to better implement EU projects in respect of Roma.
in writing. - Statistics show that unfortunately, Roma are the most hated and discriminated ethnic minority in Europe.
We need to fully apply the anti-discrimination legislation to Roma people and to take further initiatives to integrate them in our society.
I wish that this Second European Roma Summit brings about a real EU strategy for Roma.
I would also like to insist on the fact that this strategy should be a tool of coordination and an impetus for the Member States.
in writing. - The Roma continue to be one of the most disadvantaged minorities in all of Europe, subject to widespread discrimination in all spheres of life.
Policies need to be comprehensive in order to achieve a maximum systemic impact in closing the gap between Roma and non-Roma in all areas: education, employment, housing and health.
The second Roma Summit being held this year in Córdoba is intended to revitalise the European aspect and find new courses of action.
It is clear that we urgently need positive development among this minority, but this is something which both the authorities and the Roma community itself are responsible for.
The second Roma Summit must motivate the European Commission sufficiently to come up with legislative proposals aimed at achieving tangible results in this area.
The European Commission must also review the Social Fund and propose an increase in funding for projects aimed at improving the socio-economic situation of the largest minority in the European Union.
The Roma Summit in Córdoba is intended to be an opportunity to talk plainly about the parallel societies in Europe and this should be based on efficient integration at all levels.
Problems relating to social security and their living conditions are then predetermined and the vicious circle is complete.
The most important issue of the European Roma Summit, to be held on 8 April in Córdoba, should be the formulation of the principles of the European-level strategy, to prevent any further 'migration' of the Roma issue and to enable all Member States to find a solution based on the common European strategy.
