The next item is the oral question to the Commission (Β7-0218/2010) by Jan Olbrycht and Lambert van Nistelrooij, on behalf of the PPE Group, Heide Rühle, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Oldřich Vlasák, on behalf of the ECR Group, Peter Simon, Françoise Castex, Evelyne Gebhardt and Proinsias De Rossa, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, and Ramona Nicole Mănescu and Olle Schmidt, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on the principle of subsidiarity and universality of social public services in the EU.
I would like to point out that the oral question which has been asked here was brought about by a decision of the European Commission on identifying which groups can make use of social housing in the Netherlands.
It has to be realised that in different Member States of the European Union, different definitions are in use for social housing considered as a public service.
Madam President, I would like to make reference to a press release that the Commission itself issued on 19 December last year in connection with the State aid decision on the Dutch social housing system.
In reply to questions 1 and 2, I would like to be very clear.
The honourable Members rightly refer to the Commission's 2005 decision on State aid for services of general economic interest.
I would also like to refer to the Commission communications of 2006 and 2007, which clearly highlighted the Member States' responsibility and wide discretion as regards social services of general interest.
This is why the recitals in the 2005 decision refer to housing for disadvantaged citizens or socially less advantaged groups which, due to solvency constraints, are unable to obtain housing at market conditions.
This approach was confirmed in a Commission decision adopted in December 2009 on social housing in the Netherlands.
Question 2 also refers to a universal right to housing.
This amount concerns one Member State - the Netherlands.
The threshold that has now been set is EUR 33 000.
These proposals still have to be presented for approval to the members of the lower house of the Dutch Parliament, and they will tell us straight away that this threshold should, in fact, be in line with the threshold for the Netherlands' sickness insurance fund, which is approximately EUR 40 000.
The debate in the Netherlands is still in full swing, therefore: it is not the case that everyone is now in agreement.
This uncertainty leads to a great many difficulties in the Member States in relation to taking decisions themselves, specifically in terms of shaping those decisions so that they truly match up to what we need for these people and, in particular, for social housing, as these are people who do not have enough money to be able to move about freely.
We therefore have to consider - and I know this is being considered in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - demanding from the Commission a legal framework to protect services of general economic interest, especially in the social field, and I think that such a framework, were it to be provided, would be a good thing.
There are the issues of social diversity, which we have spoken about, but there is also the integration of these houses and of the people who live in them into their neighbourhood, into their town, sometimes in town centres, sometimes on the outskirts.
This oral question seeks to establish from the Commission what proposals it has to address a serious problem in relation to the delivery of social housing for citizens.
However, in the decision that we mention in this oral question, the Commission does give a definition of social housing.
The universality and the accessibility of public services are at stake. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, right across Europe, our cities and communities have to struggle with problem districts.
It will also undermine ventures that the European Union has promoted with its Community initiatives Urban and Urban II.
This will lead to more social exclusion of precisely these population groups and will only increase these problems in our cities.
These public services play a vital role in ensuring protection and the inclusion of all citizens in society, provided that they are accessible to all citizens.
In order to ensure that this applies throughout the whole European Union, we call on the Commission to draw up a public services framework directive which will introduce minimum requirements in this area and guarantee both equal, universal access for all European citizens and good quality and transparency with these services. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, social housing is an economic service of general interest with an important role in the market, creating positive outcomes for the benefit of the whole of society.
It is therefore hard to understand this restriction of the target market to families whose income is less than EUR 33 000.
This is a measurement of poverty that is carried out in terms that are absolute and purely financial, and does not take into account the diversity of the 27 Member States; its line of argument can be summarised as one of simple solvency.
The issue of subsidiarity is relevant in this debate.
Going back to the Dutch case, which has been the focus of the discussion, I would like to repeat that the Commission is not imposing the criteria that have been set in the Dutch context to any other country.
The Dutch decision, moreover, has confirmed that the social mix and social cohesion are valid public policy objectives for which State aid may be justified, and not only for those living in extreme poverty or at risk of poverty.
The discussion also touched upon a wider context, which is social services of general interest.
That is why I need to address this as well and emphasise that beyond housing, other services of general interest and, in particular, other social services play a preventive and socially cohesive role which is targeted at the whole population independently of wealth or income.
