Seventh EU programme for research, technological development and demonstration (debate) Τhe next item is the report by Mr Audy, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities (Α7-0160/2011).
Madam President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here to evaluate the Seventh Framework Programme for research (2007-2013), which has a budget of EUR 51 billion.
It is the biggest programme in the world, and this amount should be compared to the EUR 17 billion for the 2000-2006 programme, which covered five years, whereas this one covers seven.
The negotiations on the Seventh Framework Programme took place in 2006 and cover - I repeat - the period 2007-2013.
EUR 26 billion has been programmed for the first three years.
We have EUR 28.5 billion left to programme in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
As regards simplification, my colleague, Mrs Carvalho, is going to discuss in detail her excellent report and, Commissioner, we welcome the Commission decision of 24 January 2011 on the creation of the Unique Registration Facility, but we must go further.
We do not know today which countries will be awarded the Nobel prizes in five years' time.
We must also honour our international commitments, such as ITER.
This is the key to the growth we need in order to fund our social ambitions and honour our environmental commitments.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to address all of you before the final vote on the FP7 interim evaluation report in plenary tomorrow morning.
The Commission is pleased to see that the quality of this evaluation work is acknowledged by Parliament.
The current framework programme is strategically important for competitiveness and employability within Europe.
As such, any recommendations in the report which concern simplification but do not require the financial regulations to be revised should still be included in the Seventh Framework Programme.
Thirdly, the adaptation of rules for participating in new challenges will enable, for instance, greater participation by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and by young researchers in research projects.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Audy for his excellent cooperation on the review of the framework programme for research.
I have three priorities when we negotiate the Eighth Framework Programme.
Madam President, the Seventh Framework Programme for research is the largest research programme in the world: it has a budget of EUR 54.6 billion for the current period 2007-2013 and has funded over 9 000 projects to date.
Europe is struggling to do as well as it might, and we know the main reasons for this, as they have been pointed out: there is, broadly speaking, a North-South divide in Europe where research and development are concerned; Europe is also lagging behind in terms of research and development spending by businesses; and researchers and SMEs have difficulty in accessing the various programmes, as our rapporteur mentioned.
That is the idea expressed in paragraph 9 of the report.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, research and innovation are key to delivering growth and to meeting our biggest challenges.
We also must not compromise that principle of excellence.
The European Research Council, for example, has done much to support individual scientists.
The result - regrettably - is that the funds are not distributed equally to all Member States.
For this, we clearly need other instruments, because this issue has not yet been resolved.
We need to have the courage to look and see what is particularly good and what, in particular, we want to continue to fund. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, to what extent have the weaknesses detected in our R&amp;D system become strengths with the Seventh Framework Programme?
I think we can be proud of this fact.
The rapporteur correctly placed great emphasis on this aspect.
You could almost say that the huge difference and disproportion between the countries of the old Union and the new EU Member States are striking in this instance.
It is worth mentioning here that in spite of the EUR 86 billion earmarked for research during the funding period 2007-2013, there is no sign of any change in this state of affairs, so the funds awarded under the Cohesion Fund for innovation in the next financial perspective should take greater account of the factor of balanced management of funds for the old and the new EU Member States.
After all, this innovation represents an opportunity for these new European countries, and their science and new technologies should also be developed for the general good of Europe, in a cohesive way.
We are quick to boast of the results we have achieved but we would do equally well to recognise that, in some areas, we are lagging behind not only our traditional competitor, the United States, but also very strong competitors such as China and other countries.
I am not going to go over their assessment of our Seventh Framework Programme: that it is indispensable but too complicated and too bureaucratic.
Parliament has pledged to promote it, but it must not do so at the expense of fundamental research.
Secondly, financing.
I therefore call on the Commission to do everything in its power to solve the disputes as quickly as possible and to take into account the courses of action proposed in this report. (SL) Madam President, the Seventh Framework Programme came into force in 2007 after enlargement of the EU by 12 new Member States.
Firstly, uneven geographical participation and poor participation in projects by researchers from certain parts of the Union, especially those from the less developed regions and from the countries which joined the EU in 2004 or later.
The explanation I have so far been given for this situation is that research excellence is the main criterion for selection to the Seventh Framework Programme.
We therefore need to examine what own resources could be available to us in the Eighth Framework Programme for research.
Thank you. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, sometimes it is good to take a look back, especially in the midst of a period like this one, and just before establishing the financial framework and the legislative programme of this House.
Clearly, there is not all that much sense in us generating very large numbers of patents that are sold all over the world if the resultant added value then ends up in other parts of the world.
In that way, you create a common agenda, and instruments such as joint programming are also of great importance in this regard.
So once again, my thanks to the rapporteur. (GA) Madam President, we are not often unanimous on a subject in this Chamber and it was clear today that the Commission and the various Members of Parliament were unanimous on this subject and especially on how we should move forward.
It is through research, demonstration and delivery that we can achieve the competitiveness that Europe so badly needs. (RO) Madam President, in the current climate, and with a view to meeting the EU 2020 objectives, the Seventh Framework Programme needs to respond to the current challenges.
The key element of this report is that the Union must stay at the forefront in the area of research, innovation and science.
The EU Heads of State or Government endorsed the 'Innovation Union' flagship initiative when they met on 4 February, but endorsement is not sufficient.
Now we need action, and I know full well that Commissioner Geoghegan-Quinn is a Commissioner of action and will follow through.
The Northern Ireland economy is a small and medium-sized enterprise economy - 97% of all businesses can be classified in this way - yet it is an economy that lags behind other regions of the United Kingdom and Europe in drawing down money from the framework programme.
It is particularly strong in some EU Member States.
Now that the Euratom research programme is shortly to be extended to 2012 and 2013, Fukushima ought to be taken as an opportunity for a rethink. (PL) Madam President, listening to today's debate on the Seventh Framework Programme, I would like to take the opportunity to draw your attention to the preparations for the following programme, the Eighth Framework Programme.
By the end of the year - on 30 November in fact - we will put on the table our proposals for future funding programmes for research and innovation within the common strategic framework.
I would like to inform the Members of the House that more than 1 300 responses to the online questionnaire were received.
It is very helpful for all the political groups to be able to debate this important issue.
I should also like to say how grateful we are to you, Commissioner.
The aim is better coordination with the Member States.
The time has come for the European Union and the Member States, under Article 45 of the Treaty on European Union, to consider a major research programme in the field of defence equipment and, of course, dual use equipment.
The debate is closed.
In this way, we can provide a level playing field for all Member States where excellence-based assessment is concerned.
The Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities is an important instrument for achieving the Europe 2020 strategy targets.
This will enable us to achieve greater efficiency and higher European added value from FP7 funding.
Projects cofinanced under the facility have been implemented in only 18 out of 27 Member States.
It seems to me that it should be proportionally increased so that the entrepreneur's own contribution should not exceed 10 to 15% of the required amount (currently, the amount required is 15 to 25% of the amount allocated for research).
In addition to the need for new funding, better coordination is also required between the European Union, Member States and regions on research, development and innovation (RDI).
Secondly, research and innovation policies must be tailored to the market's specific needs.
The demand for innovative technologies on the EU market must be identified in order to sell the results of innovation.
The fight against cancer is a European issue which should be a priority for us, from the funding under the Seventh Framework Programme to the umbrella agency at European level.
