General provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund as regards simplification of certain requirements and as regards certain provisions relating to financial management (debate) The next item is the report by Evgeni Kirilov, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 concerning general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund as regards simplification of certain requirements and as regards certain provisions relating to financial management - C7-0003/2010 -.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Krehl, thank you very much for your report.
To give you a few isolated examples: standardising the thresholds for large projects at EUR 50 million, simpler regulations for modifying operational programmes if - and this is a very important point - this is necessary to overcome the crisis, making it possible to subsidise energy efficiency measures in the construction and renovation of housing, which will not only result in energy savings, but will also have a positive impact on the sectors associated with the building industry.
The current regulation is aimed in particular at the existing liquidity problems of the five countries affected - Romania, Hungary and the three Baltic states - and is intended, as has already been said, to speed up the absorption of the funds as a result of increased flexibility.
It will be possible to implement many projects more quickly using the promised funding of EUR 775 million which can be made available earlier than planned.
More than 20 million Europeans are unemployed, or 4 million more than a year ago, and unfortunately, the forecast is for the number to rise further.
This is all the more important because this evening, we are debating a regulation whose measures are awaited by thousands of actors on the ground.
I am convinced that, for these actors on the ground, it is regional policy that is the most tangible expression of the European Union in their area or region.
The EUR 350 billion of European funds are for the benefit of our fellow European citizens.
The final vote at the start of May will, therefore, allow us to be of great help to the recipients of European funding as well as to planning departments, but let us not forget that there is still much to be done in the field of simplification.
Mr President, Mr Hahn, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Mr Hahn has summed up the purpose of our debate this evening, which is to provide rapid and targeted help.
I believe that in times such as these, the solidarity of the European Union is needed in order to provide emergency funding.
From this perspective in particular, future cohesion policy should be designed in such a way that it does not put procedural and technical obstacles in the way of quick and efficient implementation of regional policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hahn, let us speak plainly.
The Structural Funds regulation continues to suffer from the fact that large projects which receive finance can only last for five years from the time when the investment is made.
We Greens are also opposed to this, because a combination of larger investments without checks and a shorter duration for projects is highly likely to result in money being poured down the drain.
We definitely have a common interest in achieving this aim, and we should bear that in mind during debates on the future of the cohesion policy after the year 2014.
The compromise proposal does not, therefore, involve any radical intervention in the architecture of the European funds.
In this context, we still have much work to do in our regions.
I must applaud the efforts of the current Ministry of Local Development in the Czech Republic which, in the middle of this year, approved a legislative amendment on the drawing of individual sums from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
There are certainly some things which we would criticise and Mrs Schroedter has mentioned these, but I believe that we should not hold back for this reason alone.
However, we must ask ourselves whether we have done enough to put in place what the Commission referred to in its communication of 3 June 2009 as a common commitment to employment which can be used to counteract the crisis.
These Member States will benefit from this and from additional advance payments from the Cohesion and European Structural Funds.
You know what our position is from what we have said in the committee.
On the one hand, we are happy and, on the other hand, not so happy, but every step forward takes us forward too and this is where we should be going. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, the only question is why your group, Mrs Ernst, has not tabled an amendment in plenary?
It may also have been possible to renegotiate the 100% financing of the European Structural Funds with the Council. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Schroedter, I think we believed that we had only a limited chance and therefore decided against it.
I have a question for Mr Hahn: does he not want to follow this good example with another?
I therefore feel reasonably positive, at least towards the rapporteur.
This procedure has now taken nine months and I wonder, as indeed did Mrs Krehl, whether it would be possible to complete it during the next joint round of negotiations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission? (GA) Mr President, since 1973, my country has received roughly EUR 18 billion from the European Union Structural and Cohesion Fund.
Over the years, the cohesion policy has played a significant role in developing and revitalising the Irish economy.
Under the EU Human Resources Operational Programme for Ireland for the period 2007 to 2013, the European Union is providing EUR 375 million to Ireland under the European Social Fund.
When Europe is facing unemployment figures in excess of 10%, in many Member States much worse, and the economy looks only now to be slowly reviving, there are many things Member States should be doing to rebuild their state finances.
This change will offer a second opportunity to all Member States, including Bulgaria, where the level of use of these resources is still very low, to implement projects using resources which would have otherwise been lost.
Therefore, no one should worry, and if my fellow Members worry about this, I hope that this is not a deficit of solidarity on their part with those Member States - for instance, with my country, Hungary - which, in their opinion, will not use these funds appropriately.
Therefore, cohesion policy should not be weakened, but strengthened instead. (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of all the amendments made to legislative frameworks at Community and national level aimed at tackling the effects of the crisis, its impact on the real economy and labour market is being felt strongly at the moment on a wide scale.
The effective implementation of the cohesion policy programmes is essential as it provides a significant boost in granting aid to the real economy in the form of the EUR 347 billion allocated for the 2007-2013 period.
Additional efforts must be targeted at the beneficiaries who have been hardest hit in order to speed up the flow of finances for funding the investments in the Member States' regions.
Simplifying administrative procedures in general will help boost the ability to absorb these funds, including in countries faced with this problem, in other words, my own country, Romania.
There is also to be an extension of the time period for using EU funds approved in 2007 in order to give Member States more time to make use of them.
The Commission's initial proposal dates from June 2009.
These amendments are in line with the Europe 2020 strategy, which encourages job creation and supports investment geared towards environmental protection. (PL) Mr President, Mr Hahn, those who have spoken before me have already mentioned the benefits of cohesion policy, and I do not want to repeat this here.
I am very glad about this, and this is how I understand the amendments to the regulation.
I would also like to say that this effort must be continuous.
It is important to make it very clear that cohesion policy and, in particular, the advance payments and more rapid local implementation in 2009 made a very significant contribution to boosting purchasing power which benefited the economy and helped to limit the fall in private consumption.
Therefore, I do not understand why your fellow Commissioner, Mr Rehn, has linked sanction mechanisms for a failure to comply with the regulations of the single financial market to restrictions on regional policy. (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the vote will be taken on the Kirilov report in the next few weeks and I welcome this, as the need is urgent.
The public and our elected representatives have been waiting nearly a year now for tangible and permanent measures from the cohesion policy in response to the crisis; national and local actors have spent a year calling for greater flexibility and adaptability in the awarding of European funds.
Today, with Parliament reflecting on new measures aimed at greater transparency in the use of the Cohesion Fund, we need, more than ever, to succeed in our move to simplify these requirements.
The Kirilov report is a first step towards this simplification.
This report is also proof of Europe's solidarity, that in these times of doubt about our unity, it can provide those members who need them with measures adapted to their situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank everyone who made their way to the Chamber from nearby or from further away for showing such commitment during the debate.
Despite all the difficulties and mistakes, we have adhered to this principle in the initiative.
As far as the extension of the N+3 regulation is concerned, I believe that we should take a very restrictive approach.
We only have European taxpayers' money to spend and therefore we must make the access to the funds as simple and as transparent as possible.
However, I also believe - and this request is directed at Mrs Schroedter - that we should not imply that the individual Member States are not doing everything possible to comply with European law.
I work on the assumption that all the Member States and all the institutions do everything they can to ensure that European funds are used efficiently and correctly.
I would like to make a second remark to Mrs Swinburne, but not just to her.
Anyone who knows something about the economy and the world of business will understand, not only from a social perspective, but also from a business and economic point of view, why we need regional policy and why we can use it as a rapid and efficient measure, in particular, in times of crisis, for stimulating the European economy in all of Europe's regions.
I support the proposals aimed at simplifying the procedures for accessing European funds.
Five European countries, including Romania, will take part in a process for accelerating the absorption of European funds.
Implementing a new procedure for making advance payments will enable more projects to be completed more quickly.
The European Union's cohesion policy plays an essential role in this regard.
This reform, necessitated by the crisis situation, must be the first stage of a radical simplification of the way in which European funds are managed.
Cohesion policy must become an instrument for more effective public intervention with a view to providing real support for economic activity.
Consequently, I think that making advance payments of 2% from the European Social Fund and of 4% from the Cohesion Fund is the ideal solution for Member States which are facing significant liquidity problems, thereby allowing them to benefit from consistent assistance.
