Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B7-0552/2010).
Subject: UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities The Belgian Presidency has highlighted its firm intention to make progress in the fight against discrimination and to promote equality.
In this context, what concrete measures, if any, is the Presidency taking to move forward the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by all 27 EU Member States?
On 7 June 2010, the Council adopted the resolution of the Council of the European Union and the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on a new European Disability Framework.
In particular, Articles 3 and 4 of Council Decision 2010/48/EC stipulate that a code of conduct between Member States and the Commission must be adopted before the deposition of the instrument of formal confirmation on behalf of the European Union can take place, in order to lay down details of the point of contact function conferred upon the Commission.
I am not hiding behind this argument, but I must also tell you that, in this matter as in others, national sovereignty is still a factor in terms of the way in which Member States progress through the ratification process.
In accordance with Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Union shall encourage cooperation between the Member States in the field of public health and disease prevention.
In its conclusions of 3 June 2005 on Community action in the field of mental health, the Council invited the Member States to implement the declaration and action plan adopted by the European Ministerial Conference of the World Health Organisation on mental health, held in Helsinki in January 2005.
I should mention in this connection the conclusions of 16 December 2008 on public health strategies to combat neurodegenerative diseases associated with ageing and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease, and the conclusions of 3 December 2009 on joint programming of research in Europe, covering, in particular, the launch of the pilot joint programming initiative dedicated to the fight against neurodegenerative diseases and Alzheimer's disease in particular.
Honourable Members, during its meeting of 14 October, the Council adopted conclusions on the European Union's position in view of the Climate Change conference in Cancún, during which the global framework for climate protection is to be examined.
On the basis of this text, the October European Council, which will take place next week on 18 and 19 October, will establish the European Union's position in view of the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change.
Dialogue and appropriate resources should enable developing countries to think more deeply about their own objectives in terms of reduction, in particular, of greenhouse gas emissions.
In so doing, it is following up on the conclusions of the March 2010 European Council, which highlighted the need to reduce the early school-leaving rate in Europe and which also set a collective target for bringing it under 10% by 2020.
In closing, I would add that in the context of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, the Belgian Presidency also organised, on 28 September, the conference entitled 'Breaking the cycle of disadvantage - Social inclusion in and through education'.
The outcome of this conference will serve as material for a debate that will take place during the Education Council on 19 November. (EL) Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
The economic crisis and the decrease in budget and population resources have resulted in some countries in the closure of many schools, especially in rural areas.
All these elements form a whole that enables us, in my view at least, to come up with a coherent response.
Global estimates of new landmine casualties each year vary between 15 000 and 20 000 people, many of whom are civilians, including children.
Back in May 1995, the European Union adopted, by means of Council Decision 95/170/CFSP, its very first joint action to help combat the use and proliferation of anti-personnel landmines throughout the world.
The European Union was therefore the first to act within the international community, in November 1997, following the adoption of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction.
On 18 September, the Council adopted a new joint action designed to continue the Union's political efforts with regard to the total elimination of anti-personnel landmines and, more specifically, to establish a joint moratorium on the export and production of anti-personnel mines and to facilitate a multi-dimensional contribution, within the Union, to mine clearance efforts and other related activities.
The European Union was involved in drawing up the 2010-2014 action plan - which it fully supports - adopted in Cartagena, Colombia, during the convention's second review conference from 29 November to 4 December 2009.
It is a barbaric practice; 2 000 people die or are maimed every single month and we really need to get to grips with this issue comprehensively and on an international basis.
The European Union cannot single-handedly do everything that needs to be done in this matter - it is already doing half the work.
I think, in fairness, the European Union has been pro-active in dealing with this unfortunate situation.
Subject: Creation of an Observatory on Violence Against Women The Council conclusions on the eradication of violence against women, adopted on 8 March 2010, call for the establishment of a European observatory on violence against women, building on existing institutional structures, in order to collect high quality statistical data for use as a basis for the policies to be introduced.
Let me remind you of the resolution that you adopted last year, when we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the United Nations resolution establishing 25 November as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
Subject: Bio-waste On 6 July 2010, Parliament adopted, by a large majority, resolution P7_TA(2010)0264, on the Commission's Green Paper on the management of bio-waste in the European Union, urging the Commission to draw up a proposal for a specific directive on bio-waste by the end of 2010.
Furthermore, the Council of 11 June 2010 took note of the Commission communication on future steps in bio-waste management in the European Union.
The Council is obviously going to examine a new proposal along these lines, and the Belgian Presidency organised a conference on bio-waste on 21 September to discuss, among other things, the substance of the Commission communication.
The outcome of this conference was communicated to the Council on 14 October, so it is very recent. (PT) Madam President, Mr Chastel, on 6 July this year, the European Parliament adopted, by a large majority, a specific directive on bio-waste.
The Council is aware that in its communication on future steps in bio-waste management in the European Union, the Commission did not note any shortcomings in the current legislation which would require specific legislation, but it did announce a proposed amendment to the Sewage Sludge Directive.
Europe 2020, the new EU strategy for employment and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, adopted by the European Council on 17 June, meets this challenge.
As you know, the major objectives identified in the Europe 2020 strategy include an increase in the number of jobs, better conditions for research and development, an improvement in education levels - we touched on this in a previous question - and the promotion of social inclusion, including poverty reduction.
Secondly, on the enforcement, what level of flexibility is there because of the current crisis afflicting all Member States to allow for leverage or margins for error within that 3% figure? (EL) Minister, of course, the Council conclusions and the 2020 strategy contain what endeavour to be optimistic messages.
The unemployment rate has risen disturbingly with the crisis, from 6.8% in May 2008 to 10% in July 2010.
In the light of the above, can the Council state what concrete measures it proposes with a view to the rapid elimination of the barriers now existing to the free movement of workers from those Member States which joined the Union after 1 May 2004?
With regard to the temporary restrictions set out in the accession treaties, it is up to each Member State still applying restrictions to assess the repercussions for its labour market and to decide whether to maintain the remaining restrictions or to relax them before the end of the transition period: April 2011 for the countries that joined in 2004 and December 2013 for the countries that joined in 2007.
Since May 2009, when Denmark granted free access to its labour market, the transitional provisions applied by Member States have stayed the same, and whereas a majority of Member States do grant free access to workers from those Member States that joined after 1 May 2004, 10 Member States are still applying restrictions.
The Council has stressed that the economic and financial crisis should not be used as a reason to justify, on its own or more generally, the continued use of the provisions in question, and has called on Member States to further develop suitable strategies and tools which would enable them to identify and analyse the barriers to the geographical and professional mobility of workers, and to help eliminate existing barriers, in accordance with the treaty. (RO) Minister, thank you for your reply.
We adopted the European Job Mobility Action Plan in 2007 and it is due to expire in 2010.
