Framework Agreement on prevention from sharp injuries in the hospital and healthcare sector (debate) The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution by Elizabeth Lynne and Pervenche Berès, on behalf of the EMPL committee, on the proposal for a Council directive implementing the framework agreement on prevention from sharp injuries in the hospital and healthcare sector concluded by HOSPEEM and EPSU.
Take the case of Juliet Young.
Those of you who had the opportunity to meet with those nurses and other healthcare workers could not have failed to have been moved by their plight, and in 2006 we passed a Parliament resolution on protecting European healthcare workers from blood-borne infections due to needle-stick injuries.
It is good to see Commissioner Andor here this morning, but it is a pity, in a way, that Commissioner Špidla is not here.
So that is the ambiguity in clause 6 that we are seeking to overcome through the publication of guidance.
Liz has mentioned the trauma that people affected by needle-stick injuries face.
In particular I want to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Lynne, for her excellent work in drawing up the motion for a resolution on the Commission's proposal and for her efforts over a number of years to improve health and safety at work for workers in the hospital and healthcare sector.
Parliament's resolution of 24 February 2005 on promoting health and safety in the workplace called for a revision of Directive 2000/54/EC on biological agents at work.
Again, in July 2006, Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Commission to submit a proposal for a directive amending that directive.
In response to this consultation two European social partner organisations acting in the hospital and healthcare sector, the European Hospital and Healthcare Employers' Association and the European Federation of Public Service Unions, negotiated with success a framework agreement in July 2009.
We all know that injuries caused by needles and other sharp instruments are one of the most common and serious risks to healthcare workers in Europe, in particular in certain departments and activities, such as emergencies, intensive care and surgical operations.
The main aim of the agreement is to ensure greater protection for workers against the risk of injuries caused by all sharp or pointed objects used in medicine.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I was not going to take my speaking time on behalf of the group but I thought I could actually split it and come in afterwards but apparently, on a resolution, that is not the case; so I was informed this morning that I was coming in now.
Also, I was wondering whether you knew of the timetable that the Council was thinking of because it is absolutely important that we get the timetable through very quickly because after all those healthcare workers have waited so many years.
We do not want any more needle-stick injuries unnecessarily during that waiting time.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I too would like to thank Stephen Hughes and Liz Lynne for their work on this and indeed to welcome this action, although we would like to have seen it earlier.
Certainly they are not getting even the medical support that they need, let alone the emotional support - or indeed, in some cases, alternative employment, if it is considered that, when they have contracted something like HIV, there may be a risk to patients.
In view of the fact that there are estimated to be more than one million cases a year of sharp injuries in hospitals in Europe, we do not need convincing here that this is a step in the right direction, as it should be possible to prevent these injuries through proper adherence to the agreement.
Five years have passed now since the European Commission was first informed about this important issue and almost four years since the European Parliament adopted a resolution requiring a legislative solution to the question of proper protection for health workers in the European Union from blood-transmitted infections.
In the United States, it is estimated to be a matter of around 380 000, but the Americans themselves say this figure is an underestimate.
We think this is how we can respond to what is, in fact, a certain challenge of our time, and also meet the needs of consumers and workers in the healthcare sector in the countries of the European Union. (EL) Mr President, I take the floor today to thank all the rapporteurs and everyone who brought about this debate.
Finally, let me say, on what is just the second day of the new Commission - as a few speakers highlighted in their messages - that it is indeed very important that the Commission pays more attention to the forgotten people in Europe, those age groups or professions which cannot easily speak for themselves: they have been sometimes ignored or sidelined in earlier times.
It is not only that workers in the hospital and healthcare sector are exposed to sharp injuries and infections, we all know that they also work very long hours.
