Mr President, this is another occasion when we find ourselves looking into the situation in Azerbaijan.
The democratic situation in that country is dramatic enough.
In addition, there were 200 arrests made in the wake of the recent protests in Baku in March and April.
At least 30 people, who likewise protested peacefully, have been sentenced to five to eight days of imprisonment without being able to contact their legal representatives in a cloak and dagger operation that excludes the public.
In a joint resolution of the five largest groups in Parliament, we are calling for all these people to be released immediately and for the rule of law, freedom of expression and of the media to actually be ensured so that, as President Aliyev assured us years ago - in 2005 - 'No journalist is persecuted in Azerbaijan'.
The Union should take a more active and more responsible approach, not only in Azerbaijan, but also in the whole region.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I venture to suggest that were Azerbaijan known as Azeria, as with Georgia and Armenia, European citizens' concern for democratic standards there would be higher.
So I would hope, yes, for dialogue and, yes, for engagement, but we have to up the ante in terms of making demands for freedom: freedom of expression, freedom of speech and, above all, freedom of the press. (FI) Mr President, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly are universal fundamental rights and the cornerstones of a democratic society.
On the contrary, until the spring events, Azerbaijan was making relatively good progress and was not listed by Human Rights Watch among such poorly-viewed states as China, Iraq, Israel, Russia, Saudi Arabia or Uzbekistan.
Parliamentary elections held on 7 November 2010 were not sufficient to constitute meaningful progress in the democratic development of that country.
The European Parliament resolution and reports from human rights organisations highlight serious human rights violations.
Furthermore, the authorities responded to the recent protests which took place on 11 March and 2 April with arrests and harassment.
The European Union must support all those who risk their lives and freedom in this country for the values which we share.
The core values of these three initiatives are respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
