Securities to be offered to the public and harmonisation of transparency requirements (debate) The next item is the report by Wolf Klinz, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2003/71/EC on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading and 2004/109/EC on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market - C7-0170/2009 -.
This is why we have raised the threshold for exemption from the prospectus requirements for securities denominated in 50 000 to a denomination of 100 000.
However, there is also the summary which frequently contains another 50, 60 or 70 pages.
This will help shorten the summary considerably, cutting it down from the current 60, 70 or 80 pages to some 20 or 30, perhaps, and help make it an easy read, especially for the small investor.
I am therefore delighted that Parliament has adopted this revised directive on prospectuses at first reading.
However, the 2003 framework needed to be readjusted in order to improve the legal clarity and efficacy of the prospectus system and reduce administrative costs.
In addition, we have clarified the period when publication of a prospectus or supplementary information to it is required; we have also clarified the requirement for and liabilities of the prospectus when securities are sold via intermediaries and not directly by the issuer.
His proposal increases legal certainty and removes unjustifiably stringent requirements in order to reduce companies' administrative burdens by 25% by 2012.
I will end by saying in French that I recommend 'de l'audace, encore de l'audace et toujours de l'audace' in your mission - boldness, more boldness and forever boldness. (RO) Abolishing the double transparency obligations and reducing the disclosure requirements for companies with reduced market capitalisation will generate estimated overall savings of EUR 110 million per year.
The review of the Prospectus Directive will therefore help boost the competitiveness of small and medium-sized businesses in the European Union.
We must not forget that small and medium-sized companies are the driving force of the European Union's economy.
They created 9.4 million jobs in the European Union between 2002 and 2008 and currently provide jobs for 90 million European citizens.
A proportionate prospectus will therefore be developed, Mr Feio, for small and medium-sized enterprises, a level 2 prospectus, but which respects the need for investors to be protected.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 June 2010.
