Europe 2020 - new European Strategy for Jobs and Growth (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statement on Europe 2020 - new European Strategy for Jobs and Growth.
As has already been said, we are emerging from the worst economic crisis since the 1930s, and we must do everything we can to guarantee the recovery that we are beginning to see in the European Union, according to the forecasts presented by the Commission today, and at the same time, to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis.
However, as well as this short-term work that is being done by the Member States and the European institutions, we need to look beyond this decade and ensure the sustainability of our social model, the European social model.
The strategy is going to be focused on key issues for Europe: knowledge and innovation, the sustainable economy that the European Parliament was requesting, high employment, and social integration.
Thirdly, there is something new in the new strategy: the national objectives.
We want the first of these to be realised during the Spanish Presidency: the Digital Agenda, which will be covered in the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council in May, after a communication that the Commission has undertaken to publish on 18 May.
That is when the Europe 2020 strategy will be launched, but the work will not be finished then.
I have been invited to talk to you now about Europe 2020, but looking in isolation at this package of measures for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth does not really make sense, because one of the key conclusions we can draw from the crisis we are now living is that we have to work together, at all levels and in all areas, to fill the gaps in the framework for regulation and supervision of the financial markets, to restore macroeconomic stability and sound public finances, to launch the structural reforms that can steer Europe to a path of sustainable growth and jobs.
All these three volets matter equally - we need to get it right in all three if we are to meet our objectives.
So all this demands a holistic approach, financial markets reforms, reinforced economic governance, Europe 2020 for sustainable, inclusive, smart growth and leading global reforms through the G20, because many of these matters have external dimensions.
We have to use all the levers at our disposal in an intelligent way, recognising that each one has an impact on all the others.
The G20 has been instrumental in addressing the financial economic crisis, improving governance on a more global level.
The Commission has made a particular contribution to this, ensuring that the interests of all 27 Member States are properly reflected in our work.
We will work hard to ensure that the European Union maintains its leadership at the Toronto Summit in June and the Seoul Summit in November.
Raising awareness of our strategy for Europe 2020 and enhanced economic coordination in the EU in general, and in the euro area in particular, will be important in this context.
A global agreement on bank stability levies, linked to concrete resolution measures, would send a strong signal.
As you know, the main elements of the Europe 2020 strategy were adopted by Heads of State and Government in March.
More than ever, as was highlighted in some of the statements made in the previous debate, one of the conclusions of this financial crisis and the problems of the euro area is the need to go ahead with structural reform in a coordinated and determined manner.
Better coordination of our economic policies is the centre-piece of Europe 2020.
It is essential if we want to exit the crisis successfully, restore growth, translate that growth into more and better jobs, and ultimately ensure a sustainable and inclusive future for Europe.
Of course, you cannot have social equity without a competitive market, but nor are we willing to accept a Europe of economic efficiency without fairness.
The national targets will enable a better and more efficient monitoring of the progress of the Member States, to ensure that we achieve the objectives set at EU level.
Member States are in the process of setting these national targets, in cooperation with the Commission.
They reflect the priorities of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The June European Council should give political endorsement to the principles behind these integrated guidelines, but, of course, they will only be adopted after we have discussed them with you - the European Parliament - which I hope can be as soon as possible.
Action will be taken at European level, but equally important is the fact that reforms will have to be made in each of our 27 Member States, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
For that, you have a crucial role to play in ensuring the successful implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy.
You, the European Parliament - apart from your role as a co-legislator - can also very effectively mobilise citizens and also - why not? - the national parliaments.
So that we are sure that these reforms are seen not only as the reforms 'they' make in Brussels, or sometimes in Strasbourg, but that we make at all levels in European society.
The sense of urgency, the need for reforms must be shared by all key socioeconomic and political players; at all levels of government but also by social partners.
Then we must ensure stronger, joined-up governance by tying all our coordination instruments together: Europe 2020 and Stability and Growth Pact reporting and evaluation, carried out simultaneously, to bring the means and aims together; input from the European Systemic Risk Board to ensure overall financial stability; structural reforms; measures to increase competitiveness; macroeconomic developments - all coming together to get us out of the crisis and firmly on the road to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
This really cannot continue.
Thus, things must be done differently with the EU 2020 strategy.
Our group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), expects to see an ambitious commitment by the Commission to European economic governance before this 2020 strategy.
Madam President, the turbulence in the euro area is further testimony to the importance of sound public finances in terms of the stability of the euro, of financial and economic stability and of preventing us passing burdens on to future generations, to our children.
Reform of public finances is an important precondition for a successful EU 2020 strategy and for restoring our competitiveness, therefore.
It is crucial to strengthen its preventive effect and to put sustainable public finances on a sounder footing in the Member States.
Therefore, on behalf of our group, I would encourage you to shoulder the responsibility falling to you as the Commission and come forward with ambitious plans.
We, Parliament, must look at how - together with you - we can challenge the Council to actually agree to strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact.
We must make full use of the opportunities afforded by the Treaty of Lisbon to strengthen European governance in the short term.
Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the link between the two debates that we have just had is intellectually coherent.
Coherence is about thinking that, if we want to make a success of the 2020 strategy, we have to start from where we are before we look at where we are going.
For everyone knows, everyone has said during this crisis that our social model is our greatest asset where globalisation is concerned.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, we have known for many months that Greece is in a very difficult position.
Since it is apparent that peer pressure in the Council does not work, we need binding targets and new transparent means to scrutinise the reports about each Member State.
That is why we are so tough on governance in parliamentary resolutions.
To create a platform for future growth, the strategic policy agenda must be included in the EU 2020 strategy.
Parliament asked to have a plan B, so it is included in the results, but the plan B is not yet set into action.
The most cost-effective means to reduce greenhouse gases is to move forward with a strategy for energy efficiency.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to put energy efficiency at the top of the agenda in action.
We will put forward a bold resolution on the second step of the 2020 strategy.
We only need to look at the previous policy for regulating the financial markets in order to see - if we are reasonably honest - that for months - years in fact - we have been promising to regulate these markets that have run wild, but so far have only managed to make a tiny bit of progress.
Our citizens have heard us declare that we are rescuing the banks.
It will be yet another challenge for the public finances in many countries of the European Union.
Mr Barroso, in the European Union, a market to which 27 States belong, we have no alternative but to actually come up with a financial transaction tax or other instrument that will reduce the hunger of speculators to make profits in this area.
In respect of public finances, we cannot carry on the way we have started.
I actually find it deplorable that today, shortly before this debate, it became clear that Connie Hedegaard is working as hard as possible in the Commission to try to get the minimum target for the European Union implemented.
If CO2 has no appropriate price because our targets are too weak, then we have had heated debates for years but are still a long way from achieving the target we set ourselves.
There is a great deal of work to be done on this programme.
On the basis of what we currently have in our hand, the European Parliament cannot yet, in my view, say that after Lisbon this is now a successful strategy.
This Europe 2020 has, so to speak, been formulated in such a way as to take us from the failure of the Lisbon Strategy into the next failure.
I would like to say that I spent 18 years of my life in a country which was called the People's Republic of Poland, in which there was a Ministry of Internal Trade and where the shelves in the shops were empty.
Today, and for 20 years now, for which I praise God, we do not have a Ministry of Internal Trade in Poland and we do have internal trade.
If we want to talk honestly about development in Europe, let us remember how we voted on the Services Directive in the last parliamentary term.
Let us, therefore, ask ourselves what more we could do to support the 2020 strategy, because there is no other, and of course we do have to get out of the crisis.
I want to emphasise yet again that we must do everything possible for Europe to recover from the economic crisis, because it is not only a problem faced by millions of families, but it is also a problem of faith in our future.
On the one side we have a European Union in which States like Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal find themselves in a deep crisis and other States like Germany and France are taking blocking action, while on the other side we have a European Union for which a strategy has been developed that does not in any way meet these challenges.
With this strategy, we have neither defined a new direction for the development of the European Union nor have we provided answers to the questions relating to instruments that do not work.
Similarly, we have not made any attempt to clarify the distribution of competences between Member States and the European Union or the relationship between the euro area and the countries in the European Union that are not part of the euro area.
We have provided no clarification with regard to the future development of the European Union.
However, with our model solutions we must be very careful to ensure that a centralistic form of European economic governance does not slip in through the back door and erode the last remnants of national sovereignty.
It is unacceptable for some Member States to live beyond their means at the cost of the other Member States.
Regarding financial markets; let us talk about financial markets as a part of the economy, not as a separate sector, because we will never get investments and new jobs if we think this is a separate issue.
Increasing the capital requirement might lead to less investment and that is really not what we need to do when we want to create a new confidence in the European economy at the same time as we are exiting from the budget deficits we have.
Let me point to one of the things we can do together, and that is to create the knowledge economy.
Let me also say we should be implementing a reform making European universities more independent and more European, open for students and researchers and creating a dynamic development in the knowledge society.
That is the best European good governance we can have. (SV) Madam President, I come from the same Member State as the previous speaker, but I stand on the political left.
This is also evident in the proposals that we Social Democrats are responsible for.
This has, of course, also been exacerbated by the core euro area countries having failed their fellow Member State, Greece.
It is important to keep demand high and to stimulate investment.
It is incredibly important for the Commission to give Mrs Hedegaard room to actually be a climate politician who can help to make a difference in Europe at the meeting in Cancún.
There are winners in this kind of policy, but there are also many losers.
The Commission is yet to provide an answer in this regard.
We listen to the goals, with which we can thoroughly identify, we hear the lofty intentions, but we hear next to nothing about how these goals are to be achieved in concrete terms.
If we do not just stop at lofty intentions but actually want to achieve something in the next ten years then we will have to address a number of points in very concrete terms: Firstly, we need to review our finances - not only in the EU, but in each Member State, according to uniform criteria - so that we know where we really stand, what our financial leeway is and what we can actually afford to do.
Fourthly, we need to convincingly set out how we are to supplement the common monetary policy with a common, closely interlinked economic and finance policy and even a fiscal policy.
There are very many of these: energy policy, energy interconnections, high-speed rail and road networks, navigation systems and many similar projects. (DA) Mr President, I should like to start by saying that the work on this EU 2020 strategy is very important, because we need to give some serious consideration to how we shall support ourselves in Europe in future.
Thirdly, we must work in a consistent manner on a binding employment plan.
We need to re-educate and train our workforce to be able to take up these jobs.
What we want is a single market act, a set of clear political objectives to complete the single market, and we also want to see public procurement, a massively underused tool to achieve those objectives of innovation and green technology.
For heaven's sake why are we talking about these other targets when we are not actually moving on what we have already? (PT) Mr President, this strategy provides no response to the serious problems that we are facing, and even less to the true economic and social disaster that the imposition of free competition policies is bringing about in some Member States with more fragile economies.
In contrast to what they try to make us believe, all indicators show that, if the strategies followed up to now continue, rates of economic growth will be very low and lower than in other parts of the world, meaning that unemployment will get worse, jobs will get less secure and less well paid, and poverty and social exclusion will get worse.
It is time to put a stop to financial speculation and the domination of the economy by finance.
It is time to bring an end to the Stability Pact and give the European Central Bank other functions, impose effective controls on the financial sector, and prioritise a true pact for progress and social development. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are here discussing and examining the content of this Europe 2020 strategy, while in Athens workers are dying, and a country, a nation is on the edge of a precipice, paints a rather telling, or, I would go so far as to say, grotesque, picture of European politics.
It is absolutely remarkable that in a situation of this kind, the Commission does not feel that it should take a good, long look at itself, because it is not as though it does not realise that this crisis, which in some respects has now reached, I would say, dramatic proportions, is a consequence of many serious mistakes, as demonstrated by the failure of the Lisbon strategy.
You come here saying, in all your statements, that Greece is a one-off, but will you be saying that when - although let us hope not - another similar situation arises, for example in Spain: will that be another one-off?
It is hard to believe and very difficult to accept what the Commission is saying when the European Union has not yet decided to clean up Europe's banks and to tell savers, manufacturers and the real economy how much muck there still is in European banks, in order to develop a strategy.
We must keep these points in mind and remember that a serious strategy must be based on the real economy, on the small and medium-sized enterprise system, and naturally it must give a responsible role to workers, through their participation, too. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest problem in the EU is, without doubt, unemployment.
We therefore also need a strategy for action.
However, my impression is that this 2020 project, and in particular the way in which we are to negotiate and finalise it here, does not involve any genuine strategy.
However, if that is the case, then for a new strategy we need to take the time to calmly work at getting the parties concerned genuinely involved and then be able to discuss it calmly.
I understand that, at this time when the financial crisis and the problem of Greece are presenting us with new problems every day, we cannot handle it in this way.
The standard must be a forward-looking perspective.
However, we will not actually do it, of course. (ES) Thank you Mr López Garrido, thank you to someone who can pass the message on to the President of the College of Commissioners.
Thank you, Mr López Garrido, I hope the Spanish Presidency will help to resolve all of these uncertainties, because I am convinced that these will be seen as momentous times in Europe's history when the time comes.
They are very confused times, in which the major challenges are being put on the table as to whether we want more Europe or less Europe.
This is the aim of the Europe 2020 strategy.
I do not, as some of my colleagues have said, believe that this has happened because there has been a lot of Europe, a lot of regulation or a lot of social justice.
I would therefore like to make two requests, Mr López Garrido: keep the targets of fighting poverty and the targets promoting better education, which are in the Commission's text but not in the Council's text, and associate Parliament with the voice of the people, so that the people's agenda can be Europe's agenda, rather than it being the agenda of technocrats or of the so-called 'markets', which is often the agenda of speculators. (SV) Mr President, what affects Greece affects us all, including those countries outside the euro area.
Mr President, when the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, inaugurated the Spanish Presidency in Strasbourg, he made a speech about Europe 2020 without once mentioning why on earth the Lisbon strategy failed in the first place.
Please, Señor Garrido, can you answer my question: how is it possible to establish a new, very ambitious set of goals without first analysing the reasons for the failure of the Lisbon Strategy? (NL) Mr President, I challenge the Commission and the Council to make clear choices.
I see no other way to protect our jobs, our social system.
What we need is pragmatism, courage and decentralisation. (RO) Sustainable economic growth requires huge, steady investment in the transport sector as well.
The transport sector accounts for 10% of the European Union's GDP and provides more than 10 million jobs.
I would like to highlight the following absolutely essential aspects in specific areas: the urgent need to implement the single European sky in the aviation sector, the urgent need to implement interoperability in the railway sector, expanding and improving road infrastructures and safety on European roads in the road transport sector, achieving comodality in inland ports and expanding the 'motorways of the sea' for sea and river transport, and the urgent need for the sustainable development of urban mobility.
The European Commission must take into account all these aspects relating to mobility, which must be one of the key elements in the EU 2020 strategy.
The well-coordinated development of the transport sector is crucial to sustainable development and to retaining and creating stable jobs. (EL) Mr President, thank you very much.
I should like to take this tragic opportunity, because I know that all of Europe and all the European media are watching Greece today, to ask all my fellow Members here to demonstrate responsibility, gravitas, solidarity and, most importantly, respect towards a nation going through such a difficult time.
Because, the very day after the agreement last Sunday, the same story started that we have heard since the 11 February, with a series of comments on the inefficacy of the Greek measures and on the prospects for restructuring the Greek debt, with speculation as to whether the country might leave the euro area and, of course, with new attacks by the markets both on Greek bonds and on Portuguese and Spanish bonds.
However, we must not ignore the importance of the cohesion policy in achieving the European Union's economic and development objectives.
We must therefore scrutinise the Commission's proposals closely because a proposal like this to automatically suspend the Structural Funds in the case of Member States with a large budget deficit would be an unrealistic measure and completely at variance with the cohesion policy's objectives, specifically those aimed at reducing the disparities between Member States. - (CS) The European Union represents the largest geopolitical entity in the world in terms of population.
At the same time, we must bear in mind that an essential precondition for intelligent and sustainable growth in our Member States and their regions and municipalities is sufficient infrastructure, from both a transport and an environmental perspective.
Because it responds to every new problem in the same way as the European Council or the Commission, by setting up another new institution or another authority.
Most educated Europeans then disappear into the bowels of various organisations, and these millions of educated people, who at the same time could be working creatively in other areas, for example on innovations and development in the productive sector, just move bits of paper around in offices and siphon off common resources.
We must create more space for applying the independence, entrepreneurship and creativity of people, and we must redirect the money we are currently spending on administration towards progress and support for innovation and development in the productive sector. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the community of Europe, a credible political union, sustainable growth, sustainable employment and innovation, social cohesion and sustainable competitiveness are our goals.
Europe 2020 must be an instrument to enable us to achieve our goals.
It must become our Robert Schuman declaration of 2010 and be as tangible as that was on 9 May 1950.
Europe 2020 must not degenerate into a collection of unattainable desires for the future or a dustbin full of all of our unresolved issues, problems and frustrations.
We need to review our finances in all Member States and in the European Union in order to have an honest starting point for our future plans and also so that we know what we need to finance and what we need the money for.
We also need a Europe 2020 suitability check for our national policies on the budget, tax, research, energy, innovation and social affairs.
Please forgive me, therefore, if I am perhaps sensitive or over-sensitive when it comes to planning how Europe will look in 2020, and if, during this certainly interesting debate, we do not pay regard or we pay less regard to what is happening today not only in Greece, but throughout the euro area.
Therefore, in my view, based on this experience the Europe 2020 strategy must be a new agenda that can only be taken forward if there is a resounding commitment - I would stress, a resounding commitment - from all the institutions: the European political institutions and the national political institutions.
Either we all understand that this joint project needs these instruments in order to move forward, or we will soon be in a similar situation. (DE) Mr President, the theme of the Lisbon Strategy was competitiveness and it was a very strongly one-sided economic strategy, which, of course, in part has failed.
The biodiversity strategy has failed.
A new one has, of course, been drawn up to take us to 2020 and this point must be taken into account in this strategy.
I believe that we need to increase our reduction target from 20% to 30% and we need mandatory targets for energy efficiency.
This is still too vague - we need to make it legally binding. (PL) Mr President, the Europe 2020 strategy we are discussing has, above all, an ideological dimension.
It expresses many laudable objectives, such as an increase in labour participation and achievement of tertiary education diplomas by 40% of EU citizens, and also increased expenditure on innovation.
There are many indications that the utopian and socialist 2020 project will share the fate of the Lisbon Strategy.
Secondly, this is capital investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures.
Available policy tools must be used in a way guaranteeing that the trap of a strong interventionist growth model driven by traditional sectorial industrial policy is avoided.
This could undermine investment and business attractiveness of Europe, reducing its growth potential.
Ensuring that Europe projects a different image of itself not only to its own citizens, but also to the rest of the world: that is what the resolution by the Group of the Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament is all about. (DE) Mr President, there is actually little point in commenting on the remarks made by the right and left political fringes in this House, as they are in fact unimportant in this sensible House that is maintained by political forces interested in the development of Europe.
However, if the EU 2020 strategy is now being compared with a Communist five-year plan, we would have to tell these people to look up economic policy in a text book and read the history of it.
Those on the far left - not those sensible forces here who sit slightly to the left of us - are now saying that Europe should more or less revert to Communist times.
We can wish for many things, but the important thing is that we enable our citizens to live a life of dignity and prosperity in which they can enjoy education and the other services provided by society.
It is therefore also necessary for us, as a political system, to consider how we can use the existing resources in the best way possible.
Up to now, only a market economy - with boundaries, not an unrestrained market - has actually been able to provide these services over the long term.
We therefore need to consider how we can make this European market serve the people.
We must clearly establish the sectors in the EU requiring investment in order to provide jobs.
However, all these projects require financial resources amounting to many billions of euros, which will be recouped in the public budgets through taxes and duties and, especially, through the jobs created and the economic development generated.
However, instead of investing in the Smart Cities initiative, we notice that more than EUR 150 million from the European Economic Recovery Plan remains unspent.
Last but not least, the European Union must invest in research and in the sustainable development of European industry.
Mr President, I would like to end with an appeal to the Commission and the Council to create an instrument similar to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in support of the public sector workers who have lost their jobs due to the economic crisis. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know what a great task lies ahead of us.
We have to formulate a joint strategy for Member States and European Union institutions that will ensure that the after-effects of the crisis will be dealt with, at the same time enabling the Union and all its Member States to be competitive in the global economic environment and to develop in an environmentally sustainable fashion so that all citizens of the Union will promptly feel their standard of living rise even in the short term.
Poverty means one thing in the United Kingdom and another in Bulgaria.
Our education systems are different.
At the same time it must be remembered that internal differences among the 27 Member States at various stages of development would only widen if we pursued a one-sided economic development policy that stressed competitiveness without addressing Member States' distinctive features.
I hope we will find room for the cohesion policy in the new strategy. (LT) Today we are discussing the kind of European Union we would like to see in ten years' time.
We are talking about the creation of new jobs, protection of the environment, we are talking about promoting youth initiatives, about support for the education system, about many other important elements, but mostly we are talking about these as if they were separate things and we are missing the bigger picture.
Unfortunately, reading the current proposals on the EU's Europe 2020 strategy, I get the feeling that once again this may simply remain empty words, if we fail to take into account the opinions of those who will have to implement this strategy, in other words, young people.
I would like the Europe 2020 strategy to be a link between the economy and ecology that precisely young people would help implement, so that this becomes an opportunity for young people to offer their knowledge and create the European Union's future.
Since I myself am a representative of those same young people implementing the strategy, I would like to offer a few concrete proposals.
Once we have taken these two steps, we will attract more young people to participate in creating the green economy: young people who have enough knowledge, skills and, I believe, determination.
The priorities set for the 2007-2013 period have shown what a great need there is to improve the infrastructure and support economic competitiveness in the convergence areas.
Interdependence among economies shows the need for cohesion and ensuring [...] (The President cut off the speaker) (EL) Mr President, may I start by expressing my condolences from this tribune of the European Parliament for my three fellow countrymen who were killed today in incidents in Athens.
The second thing I want to say is that the Commission needs to act now, because the longer you delay in finding a solution to the problems faced by Europe today, and hence the problem of Greece, the more you undermine the 2020 targets. 2020 is based on 2010.
With the measures that it is being forced to take, Greece will not be able to contribute towards this objective.
One of the most important measures that needs to be taken in the context of Europe 2020 is the employment of sustainable development in order to exploit the potential for green jobs.
I think it is time that this Parliament, the Commission and the Council woke up to the fact that the eurozone is flawed: it is not working.
Therefore, my appeal can be summarised by saying that, today, the great educational challenges must be pursued very conscientiously and quickly.
In my opinion, one of the most important things for the strategy to resolve is therefore the protection of the most economically vulnerable people, who were living in difficult conditions before the crisis, who continue to live in such conditions today and who did not cause the crisis.
I therefore think - and this is a concrete suggestion concerning this document - that it would be a good thing if the guideline which applies to the area of poverty and social exclusion were brought into the mainstream, so that it is not a second-class guideline applying just to the area of employment, but a cross-sectional one applying to all of these important areas. (HU) The strategy for the future of Europe is built on the basis of two value systems, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that these two value systems can only be reconciled with great difficulty, if at all, so we ought to choose between them.
The key words for one of the value systems are competitiveness, growth, globalisation, while for the other, the key word is sustainability.
The Treaty of Maastricht talked about economic and monetary union.
We have remained in monetary union and have not moved on to economic union.
This economic union means, most importantly, economic and social governance of the Union.
However, it is not possible to achieve economic union simply by having a strategy for growth and creating quality employment.
In addition, we need something that Commissioner Rehn - who is going to speak next - is working on, and which I alluded to earlier.
We need coordination of economic policies, employment policies and social policies, which has not happened in Europe and did not happen with the Lisbon Strategy.
Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the Member States must, are obliged to - it is not optional - coordinate their economic policies and their employment policies.
In addition, we need instruments to incentivise this strategy, such as the authorisation of the Structural Funds and the European funds to guide this strategy, something that did not exactly happen - or at least did not happen to a great extent - during the years of the Lisbon Strategy.
Not just the internal market or monetary union, but also economic union.
Sustainable growth and job creation is indeed at the heart of Europe 2020 and I want to say some words about financial stability, which is a necessary condition of returning to sustainable growth and to the goals of Europe 2020.
The financial support gives Greece breathing space to restore the sustainability of its public finances, as well as its overall economic competitiveness.
This is needed not only for Greece, but in order to safeguard financial stability in Europe, to avoid the bush-fire in Greece turning into a forest fire in Europe.
Some of you mentioned the contagion effect and concerns related to other countries of the euro area or of the European Union.
Greece is a unique and particular case in the euro area, and now the European Union.
Next week the Commission will make concrete proposals on how we can reinforce economic policy coordination and Member States budgetary surveillance in the European Union.
Firstly, we need to reinforce the Stability and Growth Pact, both its preventive and corrective arms.
Secondly, we must go beyond budgetary surveillance.
However, it is clear and necessary that we need to set up a permanent crisis resolution mechanism with strong in-built conditionalities and also disincentives for its use.
I count on the European Parliament to support reinforcing economic governance in Europe.
That is what our citizens are expecting from us.
The vote will take place during the second part-session in May. (The sitting was suspended for five minutes due to technical issues) Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (LT) Europe is going through a difficult period caused by the global economic crisis, the recovery is still fragile and Member States are paying a different price to overcome the crisis.
The European Union needs a new strategy directed at creating new jobs, investing in education, safeguarding opportunities for lifelong learning and improving living conditions.
However, I would like to stress that while striving to meet this commitment we must take specific measures, such as the strengthening of compulsory minimum social standards and the minimum wage throughout the EU, and it is also necessary to establish additional measures to ensure protection of the most vulnerable social groups.
I would also like to point out that the objectives set out in the new strategy constitute one common goal of Europe as a whole that we must aim for through action at both national and EU level.
I therefore call on the Commission to continue the dialogue with the Member States, so that national decisions correspond with the EU's fundamental goals, because only then will the strategy yield concrete results instead of simply being a collection of fine slogans.
It is absolutely necessary for both the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy to support the European strategy for employment and economic growth.
It must also continue to offer solutions to the threat posed by land abandonment, to rural depopulation and the ageing rural population in the European Union in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of rural communities in the European Union.
I wish to stress the urgent need to attract generations of young people to rural areas and to come up with new, alternative economic opportunities to ensure a sustainable rural population.
in writing. - I want to thank the Commission and the Council for their statements on the new European strategy for jobs and growth.
I want to stress to the Commission that some Member States will need special support in order to be able to develop and implement renewable technologies to achieve the 20% target for energy produced from renewable sources.
In terms of research and innovation in Europe, I welcome the reply from Commissioner Quinn regarding the need to improve the research infrastructure in the new Member States.
The profound crisis into which the neoliberalism that dominates Europe has led the continent, has led the authors of the 2020 strategy to try to wrap their objectives in social and environmental rhetoric, propaganda which has been abundantly propagated.
However, what we know of the instruments of the Europe 2020 strategy leaves little room for doubt: this is an old strategy that aims to justify old policies and make them viable, with well-known consequences.
The more than 20 million unemployed are being used to impose a further devaluation of the workforce on the remaining workers, making the lack of job security widespread, employment intermittent, and unemployment structural.
in writing. - (HU) In the European Union economic growth is at a standstill and unemployment is above 10%.
This means we have to devise a strategy for sustainable growth and job creation that will be able to revitalise the Union.
This depends on whether it will be capable of renewal, of placing the economy on new foundations, and whether its citizens will be able to live according to a new mindset.
In the interest of the future of its citizens, the European Union is working on a 2020 growth strategy based on innovation and research and development, and could guarantee continued economic growth and provide its citizens with new jobs.
Without resources, research and development cannot create the necessary financial background and therefore cannot make full use of innovation opportunities.
Universities need support in order to produce young researchers who will be able to provide SMEs with continuous opportunities for innovation.
in writing. - (RO) The escalation of the economic crisis in Greece, along with achieving a stable unemployment rate at around 10% in the European Union, makes it immediately necessary to implement the Europe 2020 strategy.
The pursuit of these objectives must be based on credible, consolidated action aimed at exiting the crisis, with employment being one of the key items on this agenda.
Member States must be proactive in keeping to the commitments they have assumed within the European Council.
They must also take the measures required to help the EU emerge from the current crisis and boost economic growth.
In order to make Europe 2020 a success story it is crucial that Member States, EU institutions and all actors in the society work on this together.
A convincing European strategy to create a stronger Europe should take leadership on global level.
in writing. - (HU) Integrated economic and employment guidelines are the nuts and bolts of the EU 2020 strategy.
With regard to the draft employment directives, I feel it is important to mention that inclusive growth can only be achieved if the investment is actually made in people.
This would also benefit younger but disabled people.
Yet we have to realise that in order to ensure Europe's competitiveness in the longer term, the dependency rate must be kept in balance with a healthier and more active population.
in writing. - (RO) I support the Europe 2020 strategy promoting economic growth which is smart (based on knowledge and innovation), environmentally friendly and conducive to social inclusion.
If we want to have a strong, well-balanced Europe, we need to focus a great deal of attention on economic development in the regions of the new Member States in order to reduce the existing disparities.
The quality of education in European schools and universities must rise in keeping with the labour market's requirements.
We must use appropriate policies and finances to encourage the learning of foreign languages, multidisciplinarity, double specialisations in universities, which are important in terms of performance in scientific research and innovation, as well as for increasing young people's chances on the labour market.
I also welcome the fact that the 2020 strategy is proposing a 'Youth employment framework' at European level.
in writing. - (RO) The history of the Lisbon Agenda has proved that fine ideas and principles are not enough: the key action is to implement the measures proposed.
Unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis has dovetailed with the end of the Lisbon Agenda.
However, the point must be emphasised that we cannot abandon the objectives of the cohesion policy to redistribute funds in order to achieve the implementation of the EU 2020 strategy.
in writing. - (ET) Mr President, it is very much to be welcomed that the Commission has outlined the forward-looking 'Europe 2020: a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth', because for too many years now, many European countries, in organising their economy and finances, have been following the maxim 'après nous le déluge'.
I would hope that, after the debacle of the declaratory Lisbon Strategy, the Commission did not want to come out with another empty-worded utopia with which to delude European citizens.
What we need today is not dreams, but concrete actions to save the European economy from decline.
It is high time that we began serious structural reforms in Europe, especially in the area of social policy, because the current type of social welfare model is no longer sustainable.
Achieving a minimum 25% reduction in the EU poverty level by 2020 is closely linked to increasing the employment rate to 75%.
Having a quantitative target for reducing poverty is problematic.
Women, people aged over 45 and young people continue to have the most difficulty in finding work.
It is hard to believe that Romania will be able to achieve this target by 2020.
Other questions relate to how we can reduce unemployment among young people and how we can effectively increase the participation of women in the labour market by widening their involvement in every business sector.
If we fail to provide a clear answer to these questions, the two targets relating to employment growth and the reduction in the poverty level will meet the same fate as the Lisbon Agenda.
in writing. - (EL) I should like to express my satisfaction with the conclusions of the March Council, because they acknowledge the importance of cohesion policy within the framework of Europe 2020 and thus plug the significant gap which existed in the Commission's initial text, which made no reference at all to cohesion policy.
Cohesion policy has made a decisive contribution to strengthening competitiveness and employment, especially through 'earmarking', and we must make use of everything that has been achieved within this framework.
As a real expression of the principle of solidarity at local and regional level, it guarantees the viability of development initiatives and it guarantees that Europe 2020 will serve the EU's general objective of strengthening cohesion in all three dimensions, namely economic, social and territorial, and will not be confined to unilateral economic development.
in writing. - (HU) The EU 2020 strategy must foster a 'green revolution' in the European economy, an energy-saving, environmentally friendly and sustainable economic restructuring and green innovation.
The common agricultural policy will also be needed for reaching the targets set out for environmental protection and in the fight against climate change.
The EU 2020 strategy cannot succeed without the cohesion policy, either.
The cohesion policy furnishes the entire set of tools and the flexibility needed for the EU's economic development policy.
With the tools of the cohesion policy we are able to help reach goals in any specific field.
For example, we can further the development of renewable energy sources, improve energy and resource efficiency, and support the green innovation.
I am most concerned by the weak economic growth, because it is decisive for the other goals, and by the fact that in only two of the strategy's ten years of life did growth exceed 3%.
Both the new objectives and the instruments for achieving them belong to the Member States so, in this context of crisis and commitment to stability and growth plans (SGPs), we need better governance mechanisms and real economic and budgetary coordination between countries.
The Commission must take the driving seat and lead this process.
in writing. - (HU) It is my belief that we have to dream bold dreams: the Europe 2020 document must extend to all areas of cooperation within the European Union and become a medium and long-term strategy for Europe.
According to the Treaty of Lisbon, the new strategy is being prepared with contributions from the 27 members of the enlarged European Union, so that our citizens can feel they are sharing in a common European effort.
The strategy has to address such topics as the longer range development of our countries, the internal market, the advancement of agriculture and SMEs, but also such sensitive issues as the social network, demographic challenges, equal opportunities on the job market, the intertwinement of European systems and networks in all aspects of life.
The Europe 2020 strategy should be a strategy for catching up and convergence.
During the debate on the Europe 2020 strategy we must not neglect a matter so important and significant as transport.
The transport sector generates about 10% of the European Union's GDP and provides over 10 million jobs.
It also plays a significant role in the context of the European internal market and the right to free movement of persons and goods.
In my opinion, the matter of rail transport should be tackled decisively and quickly.
I think that starting from 2014 all new rolling stock and new rail transport connections should be equipped with systems which are compatible with the European Rail Traffic Management System.
