2010 progress report on Turkey (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the 2010 progress report on Turkey.
At the same time, Turkey is also an important regional actor, and plays a crucial role in a number of significant areas, such as energy security and regional security, as well as the promotion of dialogue between civilisations.
I trust that our Turkish partners will continue with their efforts and that we will soon be able to see results.
In its conclusions adopted in December last year, the Council welcomed Turkey's continuous commitment to the negotiation process, as well as its political reform programme.
The constitutional reform package adopted by Turkey in 2010 represents another important step in the right direction, as this package covers several priorities of the accession partnership in the fields of justice, fundamental rights and public administration.
Serious efforts will be required in many areas, as has been underlined in the Council conclusions of 14 December 2010, the draft resolution of the European Parliament and the Commission's 2010 progress report.
Let me highlight some of these areas.
Turkey must further improve the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, particularly the freedom of expression and the freedom of religion, in both legislation and practice.
On 3 March, the Turkish police arrested a number of journalists.
Concerning the freedom of religion, Turkey must provide both the legislative and the practical conditions for it to be exercised.
This is a core issue and therefore, the Council maintains its 2006 measures, which, on the other hand, clearly have an impact on the pace of the accession negotiations, as we all know.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank the Parliament, and, in particular, Ms Oomen-Ruijten, for her report on Turkey.
This debate and your resolution come at an important time for EU-Turkey relations, and the draft resolution underlines a number of issues of great importance for the Commission.
The Commission remains committed to the accession process with Turkey.
The enlargement process encourages political and economic reform in the country.
The European Union is, and will remain, a key player for Turkey.
Positive steps on the implementation of the additional protocol to the Ankara agreement or in the settlement talks would have a positive impact on the accession negotiations.
The European Parliament's draft resolution rightly underlines these issues.
As for the right to freedom of religion, we welcome the initiatives taken in favour of non-Muslim religious communities in Turkey.
Let me turn to the issue of migration.
This agreement is beneficial for the EU Member States, as Turkey is an important transit country for migration flows to the EU.
The development on the readmission agreement also opens up for the first time new and concrete perspectives for further cooperation with Turkey in the area of visa and migration policies, with a view to improving mobility and contacts amongst our citizens and businesses.
Turkey and the European Union have a shared interest in working closely together in this area.
Relations with Turkey have also to be seen in a wider context.
Madam President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and the report on Turkey comes three months before the parliamentary elections in Turkey.
The 22 compromise amendments for the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs are evidence of that.
Further steps need to be taken to strengthen an independent and impartial judiciary, parliament's supervisory role and, in particular, freedom of the press and freedom of expression.
The statement on Mor Gabriel, in particular, proves that plenty of work still needs to be done and I suspect that it would be damaging for the Turkish Government if this case had to be settled by the Court of Justice once again.
It is clear that efforts have been made ​​by both the Turkish Government and parliament, at national and local level, but things seem to grind to a halt when they reach the police and the courts.
Things have to change in that respect in the coming elections.
That, in particular, is the source of deadlock in the negotiating chapters: let me reiterate that.
We Europeans are in favour of Turkey playing an active role in the region.
Madam Ashton will, on that point too, have to seek very active coordination with Turkey, more active than has hitherto been the case.
It is now up to the politicians to translate this debate into a consensus and a compromise.
Let me say once again that anyone who restricts the freedom of expression in a particular country attacks that country's culture.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, the continued consolidation of democracy and respect for human rights in Turkey, which should lead to full membership of our European Union, becomes even more important as Arab and Middle Eastern countries just beyond Europe's borders stand in crisis.
We do not do so because we want to alter the pressure on all sides to achieve reconciliation on the island of Cyprus.
Madam President, Mr Füle has just made it completely clear that Turkey and the European Union need one another.
I am also in favour of integrating Turkey much more closely into the structures of the common security and defence policy.
I would like to see Cyprus bringing an end to its blockade in this area.
When we look at North Africa, it is clear that Turkey is a role model for many countries in the region.
Our 2010 report is highly critical, but also constructive.
The arrest of Ahmet Şık and Nedim Şener and the interference in the work of political foundations in Turkey are giving us great cause for concern.
In democratic terms, there is still a great deal to be done in Turkey.
Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for her work in providing rigorously detailed documentation and in drawing up a report in the utmost good faith with the aim of sending clear political messages, particularly on the eve of the legislative elections in Turkey, and I endorse this work.
Unfortunately, this is obviously very necessary and current events serve to remind us of this with the recent arrests of the journalists Nedim Şener and Ahmet Şik in the context of the enquiries into Ergenekon and Sledgehammer.
I tabled an amendment on this subject and I would invite you to support this work to put our Parliament in a position to exercise the greatest vigilance it can over this crucial issue of the freedom of the press, which also affects the question of the independence of the judiciary and the drawing up of the new constitution.
We therefore find ourselves in an extremely worrying political situation at a time when Turkey is seen by all the countries to the south of the Mediterranean as a source of inspiration for their own democratic transition.
We criticise Turkey over the Additional Protocol - we have heard the same again this afternoon from the Presidency-in-Office - yet no mention is made of the failure to implement the EU Council decision of 26 April 2004.
Madam President, my congratulations to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on the text which she has presented, which gives a balanced and accurate picture of the situation in Turkey.
However, despite Europe's clear message to Turkey, it is acting in a contradictory manner.
Mrs Merkel has already said that and the majority of European citizens do not want Turkey as a member of the European Union, either.
A successful outcome to the current negotiations on solving the occupation of Cyprus will automatically make 14 chapters available.
Ban Ki-moon urged all international actors to focus on the efforts for such a settlement.
Voting in favour of amendments like the one on direct trade of 26 April in a divided Cyprus, unnecessary though in a united one, encourages intransigence, the failure of efforts for a solution and perpetuates the freezing of chapters.
Liberals in this House wish Mr Erdoğan and his government every success in creating a true democracy and anchoring it in our European club of democratic nations.
Turkey has much to achieve, but we have much to lose if we do not welcome and work with Islamic democracies like Turkey and Indonesia. (PL) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an interesting and balanced report, although I have my doubts regarding certain matters.
This should be stated very clearly in this House today, particularly since we expect that the consultations and cooperation on events in North Africa may prove to be a key aspect of good cooperation with Turkey.
Developments in Libya and the recent discovery of oil in the Mediterranean, and the friction which this has already caused, prove this.
The 2010 progress report is, in reality, a fault report.
The land dispute over the monastery of Mor Gabriel is one more demonstration of this.
They are in favour of joining the EU, but, at the same time, they regard Europeans with a great deal of mistrust.
I am in favour of strong links between Turkey and the European Union.
However, we have invited Turkey to work constructively with us in the context of the Berlin Plus agreement and in other areas in order to forge closer links.
Of course, they should learn both languages, but Germany still has a long way to go to establish a genuine integration policy. (DE) Madam President, Mr Watson, people who live in Germany and intend to return to their home country will, of course, have their native language as their first language.
You cannot compare people who go to Majorca on holiday with those who want to take the citizenship of a country and live there permanently. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the process of Turkey's accession to the European Union continues to be of strategic importance, both for Europe and for Turkey itself.
This process is a measure of Europe's credibility and of Turkey's intentions to carry out the necessary democratic reforms.
On 20 February, the journalist Nedim Şener, known for his criticism of the police's approach to the murder of the Armenian journalist, Hrant Dink, was arrested along with six of his colleagues.
What we need to be doing is to devote 2011 to a genuine new partnership built on a radical reappraisal of where the true interests of both parties lie. (CS) Madam President, the report on Turkey's progress in 2010 is surely one of the most complex that we have discussed here.
It is therefore important for these economic relations to be matched by corresponding political relations with the European Union, with a clear perspective on the future.
When members of this House ask questions about that, time and again, the Commission responds that it is following the situation in Turkey closely and with concern.
It is an open secret that, in private conversations, many proponents of Turkey's accession within the Commission, within their own Member States, and within Parliament, admit that the whole idea is a disaster.
Let us therefore stop deceiving ourselves, let us stop deceiving public opinion in Europe and the Turks, and let us finally put a stop to negotiations with Turkey. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the honest and, therefore, critical evaluation of the accession negotiations in the current progress report on Turkey.
The case of the monastery of Mor Gabriel is one example of the problem.
However, Turkey must also finally fulfil its obligations and implement the Ankara Protocol, so that progress can be made in the negotiations.
Of course, the EU must also make a contribution to the success of the negotiations and show that it is ready to accept new members.
It is time to show that the European Parliament can make a difference. (NL) Madam President, Turkey's accession to Europe would be one of the greatest historical mistakes ever.
We would have a country of 80 million joining us and making claims on the European budget, European decision making and foreign policy.
Let us therefore make sure that the 2010 progress report is the last one.
A privileged partnership - that would combine the best of both worlds. (NL) Madam President, progress and mutual trust will only come about once both Turkey and the European Union have met their respective commitments.
The opening of new negotiating chapters will result precisely in the kind of new dynamism, as regards progress on human rights and justice, that we want to see.
In a democracy, the press has an important role in putting checks on those wielding power.
Obviously, there is a great onus on Turkey itself to implement EU legislation, but Europe has responsibilities, too, such as delivering on the commitments in the Association Agreement about the free movement of persons and on the conclusions of the Council of April 2004 on Cyprus.
Finally, on this hundredth anniversary of International Women's Day, I would give some thought to women's rights in Turkey.
We should remember this. (PL) Madam President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Oomen-Ruijten who, once again, has drafted a very comprehensive report on Turkey's progress.
The package of amendments to the constitution approved in last year's referendum is a step in the right direction, but the drafting and adoption of these reforms were not preceded by a consultation process involving the political parties and civil society.
Let us not forget that. (Applause) Madam President, I would like to join those who have congratulated the rapporteur on a very comprehensive and balanced report, but I join with those who have already mentioned that it is scarcely one of progress: this should be more of a situation report.
Or perhaps in the end, when you look at this whole process, you wonder whether there is the leadership on both sides to complete this or whether it was just an idea of the 20th century, which, in the 21st century, makes no sense at all. (EL) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, Turkey is a large country of strategic importance, but is it ready for Europe?
They also summarise the complicated relationship between Turkey and Europe.
Turkey must improve the coordination of its foreign policy with EU foreign policy, and thus show that it shares common values and interests with the EU.
I also expect Turkey to be much more active in resolving the Cyprus issue - as we say in Slovak - by pulling its military forces out of this occupied territory. (DE) Madam President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to ask a question.
This is a basic element that we all need to respect because, if the Cyprus issue is not resolved fairly, it will be disastrous for the European Union itself. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that the excellent, outstanding work done by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten sees us engaged in a debate that is, however, still accompanied by a good dose of hypocrisy when we talk about the subject of Turkey.
The first is that we must recognise the fact that we have utterly failed, or perhaps we have never even tried, to initiate a real strategy in relation to the countries on the southern shores of the Mediterranean.
We must have the courage to say 'yes' or 'no', and then we will see that this situation will have a positive outcome. (BG) Madam President, I congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for the fine job she has done.
This is why I am sure that, in spite of our contradictions, we all agree that we need a reformed, democratic, secular and European Turkey.
Its neighbours also need to make their move in this direction.
In my opinion, that would be honest on our part. (SL) Madam President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, the dramatic and profound political changes we have seen are a reminder that, while a democratisation process is under way in the Arab world, we are becoming more aware of the vulnerability of energy supply and our energy dependence.
However, both the European Union and Turkey are still being held hostage by the unresolved issue of Cyprus.
Today, we need to highlight the urgency of the energy chapter being opened as soon as possible and we need to send a strong message to our Cypriot friends in Nicosia that opening this chapter would be to both our benefit and to the benefit of Cyprus and Turkey.
The refusal by the Turkish Government to open its ports and airports to trade from the Republic of Cyprus is unacceptable, but I would also like to mention the fact that they could also have a more constructive approach towards their neighbour Armenia, including the reopening of the shared border with Armenia and an acknowledgement of the deliberate mass killing of Armenians in 1915.
I am also concerned by its increasing hostility to Israel, our ally, as witnessed by the Gaza flotilla episode and Turkey's officially published findings.
A candidate country cannot occupy European Union territory.
If it wishes to continue on its path towards accession, it needs to withdraw its troops from Cyprus and end the occupation of Turkish and Greek Cypriots. (SK) Madam President, I would like to begin by applauding the effort of the Turkish administration to approximate its political structures to a European value system.
The EU is therefore indirectly involved in a military conflict with Turkey.
I strongly believe that, at the end of this process, most European Union and Turkish citizens will see clearly the benefits of a new and modern Turkey being a Member of the European Union.
I think it would be in the interests of both Turkey and the European Union to work on establishing a track record on these important issues.
It has been said that 14 chapters are frozen because of the Ankara Protocol.
Let me make a personal comment.
Chapters 23 and 15 are among those being frozen unilaterally.
As a last point, let me also address an issue which is very much on our minds these days, and that is the situation of media freedom in Turkey.
Last Thursday, I issued a clear statement to make absolutely sure that a message is sent to our Turkish colleagues that Turkish law does not sufficiently guarantee freedom of expression in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, and to make it absolutely clear that Turkey urgently needs to amend its legal framework to improve the exercise of freedom of the press both in practice, and in a significant manner.
But let me also make the following comment.
I am thinking about how to involve both the Council of Europe and the OECD in this process, and I will be informing the House about the results of these consultations and the way I recommend we proceed.
I believe that there is not only an agreement here between the parties but also on the part of both the Commission and the Council.
The first of these points is that we need a European Turkey and it is in our interest to assist with this process.
The Hungarian Presidency would encourage the Commission to commence the dialogue, but we all know that in the Council meeting, the situation was not entirely clear in this regard, and a number of Member States have expressed their doubts.
There have been several references to the freedom of religion and the persecution of Christians.
Although this falls under the competence of Lady Ashton as the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Council, let me tell you that the issue was added to the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council in January.
If we consider the long-term interests of the European Union, that is, to retain its attractiveness to both EU citizens and our immediate neighbours, whether it be Turkey or all the North African countries, I believe that we should bring back a more inclusive Europe within ourselves, naturally, with the proviso that this can by no means be unconditional, and that we must not save on the work that is expected from all candidate countries.
The point of order I would like to make is the following: I want to ask colleagues not to come up with new amendments because, if we want to have an un-polarised debate on this, if we want a big commitment by the whole plenary ... (The President cut off the speaker) I have received one motion for a resolutiontabled in accordance with Rule 110(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 9 March 2011.
Specific measures need to be taken in areas such as freedom of the press, the status of women in Turkish society, dialogue between the political parties and, in particular, recognition of Cyprus, which is an EU Member State.
This conflict casts a huge shadow over Turkey's EU accession negotiations.
It is also worth mentioning how important Turkey is to the European Union as it is a key player in the energy sector.
Turkey's integration into the EU can be beneficial to both sides, in the short and medium term and, most of all, in the long term.
However, I would like to ask why this report does not call on the Council to initiate negotiations on the justice and fundamental rights chapter.
We are two years away from an important anniversary.
The treaty of 1924 clearly declares that citizens professing the Islamic faith are Turks, while citizens professing another faith are regarded as Greek Catholics.
That which was progressive in 1924, namely, recognition of the fact that someone could be of a religion other than Islam, has quite different connotations today.
The key issues in the problematic situation over the negotiations at the moment are the failure to resolve the occupation of Cyprus, inactivity over the UN resolution on Famagusta and a failure to fulfil the 'tasks' arising from previous reports.
While recognising the progress made by Turkey in meeting the technical criteria for opening the negotiations on competition, we must also tell the authorities in Ankara that additional efforts are required in this area.
I also think that opening the negotiations on the chapter on justice and fundamental rights can provide the ideal context to encourage Turkey to progress along the path of reform in this area, which is our common aim, in my view.
Every year, we hold a debate on Turkey's membership of the EU.
There can be no doubt about the fact that Turkey's membership of the European Union is a contentious issue, with many opposing accession and many supporting it.
There can, however, also be no doubt about the fact that numerous democratic reforms have been carried out as part of the process of Europeanisation in Turkey, as a result of which the negotiating framework for Turkey's accession was agreed on 3 October 2005.
The opening of negotiations can be regarded as a success not only for Turkey, but also for Europe, since the main motive for Turkey to carry out reforms was its European ambitions.
A modern democratic state must be based on the principle of division of power and a balance between the executive, legislative and judicial authorities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and, in particular, freedom of expression and a legal framework which guarantees women's rights and gender equality.
Ankara's policies may serve as a model for the Arab countries in the region.
Brussels must show that it recognises the progress towards integration with the European Union that has been made by Ankara in recent years.
