Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B7-0303/2011).
Member of the Commission. - As you all know, the EU headline targets under Europe 2020 include increasing the employment rate to 75%, lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion, reducing the proportion of early school-leavers to under 10%, and ensuring that at least 40% of the younger generation will have completed a tertiary degree by 2020.
The Commission will present its proposals for the next multiannual financial framework at the end of June.
Member of the Commission. - The picture in the European Union is quite uneven.
Subject: The funding of the CAP post 2013 Can the Commission confirm its support for a strong and well resourced common agricultural policy under the next multiannual financial framework?
To that end, the Commission is due to present its legislative proposals for the next multiannual financial framework at the end of June 2011.
The answer is that we will achieve this through several measures that we are planning to take in the context of this reform, first of all to improve the targeting of the budget available to us, to ensure a better balancing of payments among the various categories of farms and among the various Member States, and also to use the budget as an incentive to farmers to produce goods for the market as well, in parallel with food production, making use of well-focused agricultural practices.
I think that, in this way, we will ensure that the future common agricultural policy, which is a sectoral policy, provides multi-sectoral responses, and thus that the budget which is to be allocated to the common agricultural policy will demonstrate and provide a genuine European added value.
I think that, in this way, we can justify a substantial budget for the common agricultural policy, and a budget which is consistent with the objectives that we are setting for this policy.
Clearly, what the common agricultural policy and European farmers provide in terms of production of goods for the market will be proportional to the resources that we will be able to allocate.
I think that, in this way, Mr Kelly, we can justify a substantial budget for the common agricultural policy by mentioning the positive contributions that this policy makes to European society, not just in terms of agricultural production for the markets, but also in terms of non-marketable production - products which are not paid for by the markets.
The proposals on the multiannual framework, as I said in my introduction, will be forthcoming in June, and only after that, in the autumn, will the Commission table legislative proposals.
The changes made to the common agricultural policy will therefore not be merely qualitative - improving the targeting of our objectives - they will also aim to distribute payments among the Member States - both within the Member States themselves and among the various categories of farms - precisely in order to make better use of the available resources in terms of the objectives that have been set.
Mr Niculescu, how will we succeed in ensuring a good relationship between the production of goods for the market, food products and environmental goods?
We will not achieve this by trying to burden farmers even more, but rather by trying to use part of the budget as an incentive to produce goods using agricultural practices which respect the environment but which do not necessarily require too much of an increase in the costs of production.
The Europe 2020 Strategy and its flagship initiative, the 'Innovation Union', have been adopted in order to bring the European economy out of the crisis and to confront the social challenges that exist.
Investment in research and innovation - including new technologies such as eco-innovation, for example - is at the heart of this strategy, and new financial instruments are being planned with the aim of obtaining a substantial increase in private investment and establishing sustainable and long-term growth.
Secondly, the Commission's Green Paper entitled 'From Challenges to Opportunities: Towards a Common Strategic Framework for EU Research and Innovation Funding' proposes important improvements to the research and innovation programme which will form part of the next EU multiannual financial framework.
The Commission has asked the parties involved to submit contributions on the topic of the Green Paper before 20 May 2011.
Subsequently the Commission will present its legislative proposals for the future financing of this European Union of research and innovation towards the end of this year. (EL) Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply.
Our plan, particularly in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy - including investment measures designed to enable farmers to modernise their operations - is to give them incentives to focus these investments in a way that seeks to reduce carbon emissions.
For example, the level of public cofinancing for a tractor with high or normal carbon emissions will not be the same as for a tractor and agricultural equipment with lower carbon emissions.
Therefore we should exploit this potential of the European budget to its limits. (EL) Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply.
As a result, on 23 September we adopted the communication setting up a phased approach for the corps.
The results of these activities will feed into a proposal for a regulation which will be tabled in 2012.
We have provided 157 flights from Member States with support from the Commission, and we have also funded the repatriation of third country nationals through the International Organisation for Migration.
In total, over 56 000 people safely made it home.
Out of the 740 000 people I mentioned today, some 50 000 are Libyans and it is their number that is growing, facing us with an additional challenge to help these people.
I can assure you that we are in constant contact with the UN and the UNHCR so that we can deploy assistance when a window of opportunity opens up, as we have now done on numerous occasions, for example in the case of Misrata.
Over the last year, especially in the context of the response to the Haiti disaster, the Pakistan floods and today in response to Libya, we have built very strong and effective working relations with the EU military staff in the European External Action Service to the point that now EU military staff designate liaison officers as part of our humanitarian operation, so we can make sure that we plan and execute together as one.
I can assure you that we strive to do the right thing.
Where we are today is actually quite impressive because we already have 104 modules that Member States have registered with us and we have their commitment that we can mobilise and deliver assistance in a predictable manner, as long as they do not need these modules to fight the same disasters at home.
Member of the Commission. - Both agriculture and forestry can, of course, play an important role in achieving the EU's climate objectives, and non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are actually included in the EU's Effort Sharing Mechanism, but emissions and removals of CO2 related to land use, land-use change and forestry (what we call LULUCF) are not part of the current reduction commitment as adopted back in the 2008 in the climate and energy package.
The 2008 Health Check reconfirmed climate change as one of the major challenges to be addressed, and already measures in relation to forestry - for example, afforestation - can be supported under the rural development policy.
A reformed CAP with a greener first pillar, introducing non-contractual and annual environmental actions that go beyond cross-compliance, and a second pillar more focused on climate action, supported by a professional farm advisory service, could be tailored towards helping farmers to manage their land-use systems so as to contribute to climate action (mitigation), and also become less vulnerable to climate change (adaptation).
It is clear that her policy is going in the right direction.
It thus becomes a much more tangible and more concrete option for farmers to move in the direction of doing something for the climate, for water quality, or whatever, so that we get more value for the subsidies that we give to agriculture.
Subject: Gender equality in the fight against climate change According to the 2011 global climate risk index there are six Member States among the 35 countries in the world which are most at risk.
The Commission recognises the serious social impact upon women of climate change, as well as the important role of women in combating climate change.
Member of the Commission. - It is clear that we have had very many challenges in the last couple of years.
Subject: Costs of cutting CO2 in the European Union The European Union is planning to cut CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission has actually already responded to similar written questions from the honourable Member Mr Ziobro on the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union by 2020 and on the question of carbon leakage, back in March and April 2010.
For instance, it is actually estimated that, between 2005 and 2009, 550 000 new jobs were provided by the renewable energy industry alone.
Moreover, the risks for carbon leakage have been reduced further, since now more than 80 countries, amongst which all emerging economies, are implementing the pledges they committed to in Copenhagen and are implementing their domestic targets.
Secondly, the European Commission has assessed in detail the costs and benefits of CO2 emission reductions on the European economy in the framework of the Climate and Energy package agreed back in 2008.
