Establishment of a European Asylum Support Office (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Jean Lambert, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Council position at first reading (16626/2/2009 - C7-0049/2010 - for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Asylum Support Office.
And those who suffer at the end of the day are those in need of protection.
In order to strengthen the solidarity between the Member States, practical cooperation between the different authorities in the area of asylum is important as a part of forming the European asylum system.
To enhance this practical cooperation, the establishment of the Asylum Support Office was requested by the European Pact on Asylum and Migration of 2008 and agreed in the Stockholm Programme in 2009.
The European Popular Party has a positive outlook on the establishment of the Asylum Support Agency because it considers it to be an important step forward in the establishment and implementation of a common asylum policy within the European Union.
I would like to point out that this Office must recognise that a common asylum policy needs to be built upon one word, as has already been mentioned, and that is solidarity: solidarity towards asylum seekers travelling to Europe who are entitled to protection, which the said office must ensure, and, as rightly stated by the Commission, solidarity towards those countries who have been shouldering the burden alone, without any assistance.
It aims to promote practical cooperation between Member States, in particular, by improving access to accurate information on countries of origin, which is a good thing.
Secondly, Article 2 of the regulation states that the Office shall facilitate, coordinate and strengthen practical cooperation among Member States on the many aspects of asylum and help to improve the implementation of the Common European Asylum System, including its external dimensions.
Someone spoke of these countries' needs, but these countries must be supported, and I believe that offices should be established in third countries, for instance, in North Africa, in the sub-Saharan area, where there is a concentration of asylum applications and asylum seekers.
It does not work in practice and circular migration often turns into permanent migration.
We must develop a common asylum strategy from scratch, because what you are recommending will not work in the countries that are affected. (EL) Mr President, the establishment of a European Asylum Support Office is indeed extremely important and thus, symbolically, I consider it to be important that it is being set up in Malta, a country in the south of Europe which is under a great deal of pressure from asylum seekers and also within the framework of illegal immigration issues.
It is very important that we strengthen and coordinate cooperation between the Member States on asylum issues still further and, ultimately, that we try and arrive at a uniform approach from among the various national practices, especially as we all recognise the huge differences which exist.
The proposal that EUR 40 million will be spent establishing and staffing an entire office in Malta to deal with asylum seekers across the EU suggests that this Commission wants to make the decisions that should be left to national governments.
EUR 40 million would be better directed towards building new schools, hospitals and houses in the UK as well as affording critical services such as clean water, desperately needed if we are to continue providing a decent First World quality of life for everyone.
It is, in fact, a cornerstone in building a common asylum system and it will be an important instrument in supporting Member States, in helping develop practices and common standards, and in supporting Member States under particular pressure.
For those who are concerned about the money - if I may make a party political and national political point here - if certain of our Member States stopped creating asylum seekers from Iraq and Afghanistan, I am sure we could save a lot more money and indeed save people a lot more misery.
As regards some of the other points which were raised, it is hoped that improving the quality of the system in certain Member States will be able to increase confidence between Member States and deblock some of the other parts of the asylum system, as well as helping Member States feel that there is support when they are facing particular burdens.
The Office will help increase cooperation between European institutions, local authorities and civil society, and will identify common practices in asylum matters.
Cooperation and solidarity are also needed between Member States not only to help these countries cope with the problems they are facing, but also to improve the European Common Asylum System.
