This is something we shall repeat again and again when we are in Malaysia and the ASEAN states, and the European Parliament will underline this with this resolution.
We welcome the outspoken call by the Malaysian Bar Association - which represents 8 000 lawyers - for the abolition of caning.
Mr President, this resolution condemns the practice of caning in Malaysia.
Malaysia uses this horrific and humiliating practice to punish at least 66 misdemeanours and approximately 1 000 people are beaten in the country's gaols every year.
Mr Tannock, caning in Malaysia was not introduced by Sharia law, but is a carryover from British colonial times.
author. - (DE) Mr President, I interpret that last contribution as a question and would like to state in reply that caning does indeed constitute torture and that the prohibition on torture is integral to human rights and international law, irrespective of whether or not a particular country has ratified these principles.
In addition, since 2002, when this offence was created, thousands of refugees have suffered this punishment, this torture.
At a time when the European Union's dialogue with Malaysia seems to be bearing fruit, should the European Union not do everything possible to persuade Malaysia to make progress in this area?
At least 10 000 convicts and at least 6 000 refugees are caned each year in Malaysia.
What is, however, problematic in the case of Malaysia is the fact that a more significant number of crimes and offences attract a caning sentence: to be more precise, 66 in Malaysia, compared with 30 in Singapore.
An example of this is the case of Kartika Sari Dewi Shukarno, who was sentenced to caning in 2009 for drinking beer in a bar.
There was the notorious case from Malaysia of a punishment of six strokes of the cane imposed on the model Kartika Sari Dewi Shukarno for being caught drinking beer.
After the announcement of the punishment, however, which was to have been performed with a rattan cane in a women's prison, the punishment of six blows of the cane, handed down to a 32 year old mother of two children, was commuted to three months' community service on the basis of a ruling by the Malaysian sultan, Ahmed Shah, who supervises compliance with Islamic rules in Malaysia.
Things went rather worse, however, for 46 year old Indonesian, Nasarudin Kamaruddin, who got 6 blows of the cane and one year in prison for the same offence.
Judge Abdul Rahman Mohamed Yunos, who also sentenced Kartika Shukarno, said of the judgment 'The aim of the verdict is not to punish but to teach'.
A similar argument was used in defence of his ruling by Wee Ka Siong, Deputy Education Minister, when he justified the corporal punishment of children in schools, adding that the punishment could be carried out only by directors of schools or assigned persons, that parents would be informed about a punishment, and that a witness would be present when the punishment was carried out.
Malaysia cannot invoke its domestic legislation, under which at least 66 crimes carry the punishment of caning, in order to justify its ruthless methods, which are tantamount to torture and which are considered illegal by international law and conventions.
Furthermore, the observance of human rights should be a key condition set by the European Union for the development of further political cooperation with Malaysia. (PL) Mr President, Malaysia is an economic tiger.
In Malaysia, over 10 000 people suffer from this form of corporal punishment every year.
Estimates confirm that the situation is worrying: more than 6 000 refugees and 10 000 convicts are victims of this practice each year.
The Malaysian Government has recently added yet more crimes to the list of those punishable by caning, and the punishment is meted out for as many as 66 different misdemeanours.
The European Union has been cooperating closely with Malaysia for eight years.
EUR 17 million were earmarked in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective to develop the Malaysian economy.
It is therefore justified to call on our partner to ratify the UN Convention against Torture, and to condemn in no uncertain terms the practice of caning as incompatible with the position of the UN Human Rights Council. (RO) Mr President, more than 10 000 citizens are whipped or caned annually in Malaysia, where the legislation stipulates this punishment officially for 66 infringements.
These principles are also reflected in the European Union guidelines for EU policy towards third countries on torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
The recent report by Amnesty International on the practice of caning in Malaysia is worrying.
The European Union and Malaysia will soon begin negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement, which will contain provisions on human rights.
