Mr President, in the five months since 19 December, the political atmosphere in Belarus has become dramatically worse.
The resolution calls for new measures to be found to help Belarusian civil society and the opposition, and this is only fair.
Perhaps it is an illusion, but I think that even Moscow and Kiev could help by talking to Minsk about the release of political prisoners.
author. - Mr President, we are discussing the situation in Belarus for the fourth time this year, yet the political prisoners who were apprehended in December have still not been released.
Therefore, we are calling on the European Union to extend restrictive measures against Lukashenko's regime.
One of them is my friend, Anatol Lyabedzka, a wonderful Belarusian and European, who only recently was released from prison after spending over 100 days under arrest, something which I am profoundly convinced was unlawful.
Today, I would like to send him expressions of solidarity from this House - from the majority of MEPs, I am sure - because he is someone who definitely deserves this.
I think that we Europeans, assembled in this Chamber today, have no option other than to say very loudly: 'yes' for a free Belarus, 'yes' for democracy in Belarus and 'yes' for the Belarusian nation in Europe. (Applause) author. - Mr President, once again, I deplore the persisting climate of fear and intimidation towards political opponents in Belarus and the ongoing harassment and persecution of opposition figures since the presidential elections in December 2010.
Paragraph 8 of our resolution says clearly: it is time to introduce economic sanctions, because this is the only language which Lukashenko understands.
What is happening in Belarus has to be evaluated in a very principled way, and more pressure has to be applied.
Mr President, we have talked in this Chamber about what is happening in Belarus on average once every two months since the beginning of the year - this is now the third time.
We have talked about cases of human rights violations, we have mentioned the names of opposition activists who have been put in prison and we have discussed how the ability of many civil and non-governmental organisations to operate is restricted.
The same things, and, to a certain extent, even more pronounced, that this report here is listing in relation to Lukashenko and Belarus to which you are raising an objection, setting the bar considerably higher for Lukashenko and Belarus, a country outside of the European Union, than the one you were using for Hungary and Ferenc Gyurcsány, including the fact that the Hungarian Lukashenko forcefully broke up every significant anti-government protest.
Charles, I hold you in a very high regard, but we are here for multilingualism and precisely for the rights of the minor languages.
Nobody would have thought that, 20 years later, there would still be a dictatorship in Europe.
There is Belarus, there is a trend towards a dictatorship in Russia, there is a sliding backwards in Ukraine and there are problems in Moldova and Transnistria.
The organisation Libereco Partnership for Human Rights has asked me to take over a prisoner's godparenthood for an opposition activist imprisoned in Belarus.
I have been asked to adopt Dmitry Bandarenka.
I would like to suggest that all of you who are involved in these matters could ask this organisation to allow you to take on the personal patronage of repressed Belarusians and their families - this would be something of a response to the problem of what we can do for those who are, in fact, not far away, in a country which shares a border with the European Union.
It has already been said in this Chamber that there must be sanctions and there must be strong words, because we can only talk to Lukashenko using a language he understands - well, he understands the language of his own interest, and he understands the language of strength.
Around 40 people who had taken part in the demonstrations following the elections were charged with civil disorder, which can carry a maximum sentence of 15 years imprisonment.
The antidemocratic power in Belarus is concentrated very much in the President.
Lukashenko is now in his fourth term of office, and for 16 years, he has shown that his moves in the direction of democracy are just a very cynical game.
I strongly support the call issued yesterday by Parliament to the International Ice Hockey Federation for Belarus to lose its right to host the 2014 World Championships unless it frees all its political prisoners.
The EU should also impose targeted economic sanctions and intensify its support for NGOs in Belarus. (RO) Mr President, the international community, which also includes the European Union, has been appealing to the Belarusian authorities for a long time to respect the international commitments which they have assumed, to stop the repressive measures used against opposition representatives, to free the protesters arrested during various demonstrations, to end the repressive measures against the free press, civil society and human rights activists, and to allow fair, transparent trials to be conducted.
The Belarusian authorities need to understand that if they fail to respect human rights and the rule of law, in compliance with the joint declaration made at the Eastern Partnership Summit on 7 May 2009, of which the Belarusian Government is also a cosignatory, the European Union will not be able to offer any commitment of support.
Kinga Göncz is not from my party but I am appalled by the way that Ms Morvai used a debate about the last dictatorship in Europe - Belarus under Mr Lukashenko - to discredit an honourable Member of this Parliament by calling her a Hungarian Lukashenko. (Applause) This is not in keeping with the values or the honour of our common European Parliament, to which we have all been elected.
Both are intolerable and you, as Members of Parliament, should fight against both.
I am not from Hungary and I am not from a Social Democratic party or group here, but I refuse to accept that a Member of this Parliament can criticise somebody else in this Parliament as being a member of a dictatorship party in another non-EU country. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, Mrs Göncz is an MEP in the same group as me.
It is 20 years since the Soviet Union collapsed, but for President Lukashenko of Belarus, it is as if nothing has changed at all.
As this resolution today illustrates in graphic detail, Lukashenko has intensified his campaign for persecution and harassment against those who dare challenge his iron-fisted rule.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission is deeply concerned about the situation in Belarus and particularly the developments in the wake of the violation of electoral standards at the presidential elections on 19 December 2010.
In our messages, we have made it clear that we want to continue our engagement with the Belarusian people and civil society.
Negotiating directives for visa facilitation and readmission agreements were adopted by the Council on 28 February, and we are encouraging Member States to make optimal use of the existing flexibilities offered by the Visa Code, in particular, the possibility of waiving and reducing visa fees for certain categories of citizens.
This was made clear by the 31 January conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council.
In conclusion, let me say that the situation in Belarus remains high on our agenda.
I am glad to see that a large majority in this Parliament is committed to continuing a serious debate about this and to resisting distractions.
