Cambodia, in particular the case of Sam Rainsy The next item is Cambodia, specifically the case of Sam Rainsy.
author. - Mr President, Sam Rainsy is a colleague of ours, a member of the parliament in Cambodia.
The ruling party apparently does not like the fact that Sam Rainsy denounces corruption and human rights abuses.
More specifically, we should state that we are alarmed at the prosecution and sentencing to a total of 12 years in prison of the opposition leader, Sam Rainsy, on account of a gesture which it considers to be of a symbolic and clearly political nature.
It is particularly alarming that, if upheld, this verdict would bar Sam Rainsy from standing in the 2013 parliamentary elections and have consequences far beyond Rainsy's case, as it is bound to affect the opposition as such.
Mr Rainsy had already been sentenced to 18 months' imprisonment, only to be granted a pardon in 2006.
Sam Rainsy, the Opposition leader currently exiled to France, has been jailed in absentia for ten years.
Similar convictions of members of the opposition party are fairly common, and show that there is no impartial judiciary in Cambodia.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (FI) Mr President, Sam Rainsy's treatment is just the tip of the iceberg with respect to the authoritarian control which the ruling party in Cambodia exercises to wield political power over a court in order to silence criticism of the government.
We must in no uncertain terms also remind them of the cooperation agreement that exists between the EU and Cambodia and of its Article 1, which calls for a respect for human rights.
The 12-year prison sentence handed down to Cambodian opposition leader Sam Rainsy is actually a serious human rights violation and a blatant indication of the authoritarianism which dominates political life in Cambodia.
Sam Rainsy, the opposition leader in Cambodia, has been subjected to serious persecution.
He has already been elected, but was thrown out of the parliament in 1995.
There were a number of attacks on him during election rallies, one of which left 80 people dead.
The charges brought against Sam Rainsy are obviously more of a political than criminal nature.
He has been sentenced to 12 years in prison following a symbolic gesture of protest which he made against the way in which the border with Vietnam has been marked.
This would help stop the move towards the single-party system, which poses a threat to the respect for human rights. (FI) Mr President, the decision of the Cambodian court to sentence opposition leader Sam Rainsy to 10 years in prison in charges relating to the spread of disinformation and falsification of official documents, and other cases like it have led to justified concern in the West regarding the impartiality and independence of the country's legal system.
The European Union must in no uncertain terms call on the Cambodian Government to respect its commitments. (RO) As has already been mentioned, Sam Rainsy has been given two prison sentences.
We have had frank exchanges with our Cambodian interlocutors, most recently at the Joint Committee in Brussels on 8 October, about the state of the country's democratic institutions and, in particular, the treatment of the opposition in Parliament.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - The human rights situation in Cambodia is an ever growing concern.
