Within the European vehicle fleet, which could amount to 270 million vehicles by 2030, there is a type of vehicle that must become a focus of attention for achieving the objectives that I was referring to before.
The Spanish Presidency has therefore included developing electric cars as a priority on its agenda, as a preferred alternative mode of transport in order to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels derived from oil in the transport sector, and therefore make a clear and decisive move towards an energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable transport system.
The Council is therefore promoting the debate on possible measures to adopt in order to promote the production of electric cars by the European industry, so on 8 and 9 February we took the debate to the informal Competitiveness Council meeting in San Sebasti치n.
It was a really intense debate in which three central areas for work were identified: firstly, promoting a leading European market in the production of electric vehicles and their batteries; secondly, supporting the adoption and acceptance of electric cars as a mode of transport similar to conventional cars, putting them at the same level or seeking to achieve that in the future, as at the moment they are not at the same level and it will take some time for them to get there; and thirdly, creating the conditions for a single market in electric cars.
In response to this invitation, the Commission - as Mr Tajani will mention later - has published its European strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, a communication produced on 27 April that talks about electric technologies, other alternative technologies in this field and other matters.
We would like there to be some conclusions in the Competitiveness Council in May on the Commission communication presented on 27 April, and this is our intention.
Decisive moments have been the meeting of the Council of Ministers in San Sebasti치n, under the Spanish Presidency, the announcements of national programmes for electric mobility and the motor shows, not only in Europe, but also in Detroit and Beijing.
I wish to briefly illustrate in this House the content of the Commission's strategy: the strategy includes more than 40 concrete measures, and I would like to take this opportunity to illustrate to you the three that have been identified by the interested parties as the main priorities that the Commission must address, namely standardisation, financial incentives and research.
In some cases the incentives relate explicitly to electric vehicles, while in other cases they are linked to low CO2 emissions.
I share the Spanish Presidency's view: we are here to examine a strategy, that is, the one contained in the Europe 2020 document proposed by the Commission and approved by the Council, which places industrial and enterprise policy at the heart of the strategy for emerging from the crisis and for creating prosperity and promoting development in our society in the years to come.
I am very grateful for the initiative by the Spanish Presidency - and this is a very Spanish event as far as I can see - in adopting this series of proposals and leading the way in this regard.
For us, that means that we have to focus our subsidy options on this in a more targeted way in the area of cohesion, in the regions and also in the development of rural areas.
Thirdly, we must also take electric cars into account in our CO2 emissions calculations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, traffic in Europe is responsible for around 30% of CO2 emissions, with road transport accounting for the greatest part of that.
The prerequisite for this, however, is that there must be no revival of the hazardous nuclear energy, which is why the production of renewable energy is the conditio sine qua non.
For this reason, Germany, for example, has undertaken to limit the amount of land sealed under concrete and asphalt each day to 30 hectares from 2020.
It is currently 117 hectares a day.
If that turns out to be electromobility, we shall need European and international standardisation.
The Greens will vote in favour of this resolution.
Most of you probably know me only thanks to my journey by bicycle from Prague to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, which was 866 km long.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr L칩pez Garrido, I believe that it is really important that we think about this question of electric vehicles and debate it thoroughly.
Having said that, I would like to point out that, as the President has already said, the automotive industry is the most important industrial sector in the European Union and will remain incredibly important for employers, for employees and for jobs.
I think that we should switch to the electric car as soon as possible, as the Commissioner has already said.
Secondly, Commissioner and President, the vehicles of the future and, in particular, electric batteries.
The technology will choose itself.
I hope European constructors will contribute to making the ideas of the 2020 strategy a reality, creating modern solutions for connecting electric vehicles to smart electricity networks.
The arrival of electric cars on the market could represent a competitive advantage for European industry.
We must not, however, forget that Europe is currently the world leader in the automotive sector, and we cannot put this competitive advantage at risk.
I call for greater investment in research and development into smart grids and battery technology, in order to make more efficient use of the primary materials in the batteries.
I ask, therefore, that all efforts be made to maintain Europe's world leadership in the automotive industry. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I, too, would like to thank the Spanish Presidency and also the Commission for bringing the subject of electromobility to the fore.
I also believe that we can use electromobility to revitalise the mobility economy in Europe, and we need to do that in order to create value and to safeguard jobs.
Therefore, I would ask you, Commissioner, to perhaps integrate electromobility further in the follow-on from Cars 21. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, yesterday this Chamber was full of mayors who signed up to the Covenant of Mayors in order to make a real commitment to a low-CO2 economy.
It is possible to see that there is scope for a major leap forward for the electric car, and for transport in general, especially in cities.
We are working on a European project, on keeping jobs and on taking the lead, so perhaps that could come through a little clearer in the communication. (IT) Mr President, Mr L칩pez Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your report, Mr Tajani.
The electric car project dates back to 2006: all the institutions agree that it is a valid project.
The European Parliament already gave its verdict to that effect in 2008, the Commission issued a communication on intelligent cars back in 2006 and, today, our Commissioner is making serious and practical efforts to launch these cars in the near future.
The real issue, today, which must be debated by the European Parliament, is knowing what kind of Europe and what kind of relationship between the Member States we want.
As a result, in the European Union in 2009, a 7% increase was seen in demand for hybrid or electric vehicles.
Many car companies in both Europe and Asia have already completed the development of these vehicles and are ready to launch them onto the market.
In the interests of creating a space for electric vehicles as quickly as possible, I therefore call on the Commission to join forces with the Japanese producers as soon as possible and to contribute actively to the introduction of global standards for using electric vehicles. (ES) Mr President, Europe 2020 and the electric car.
Mrs Bilbao has just referred to the regions as a key element in the development of electric vehicles.
I am convinced that the European Union has to take all these factors into consideration in the future.
Indeed, there are already more than 90 different models of electric vehicles advertised by vehicle manufacturers to be launched on the market in the relatively near future.
The efficiency of electric vehicle technology can reach 60%, whereas traditional motors have an efficiency of 20%.
Furthermore, as far as energy is concerned, electric vehicles objectively help us reach those goals which we spoke about this very afternoon when we talked about Europe 2020 and the fight against climate change, known as the 20/20/20 objectives.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Spanish Presidency has correctly situated the electric car strategy in a broad - broader - context that relates not only to electric cars but also to the development and protection of the car industry, in the context of European industrial policy.
Someone raised the issue of standardisation: in the Commission document the Union's standardisation bodies have already been given the task, in 2010, of developing a harmonised European standard for electric vehicle recharging systems by next year.
However, we must provide the manufacturers in the sector with specific guidelines, so that it really is possible to have a non-polluting electric car.
For this reason we are all committed to ensuring - and this evening's debate proves it - that this industrial sector can become more competitive.
With this in mind, Prime Minister Emil Boc decided recently to set up an interministerial group to devise a national strategy for manufacturing electric cars.
In April the Commission issued the communication on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, which is to say on the European strategy for encouraging the development and eventual widespread use of vehicles that are 'clean and efficient' in terms of low emissions of carbon dioxide and pollutants.
The Commission has just submitted a communication on clean and energy-efficient vehicles that sets out a neutral opinion as regards electric vehicles, giving no particular priority to any of the available options, whether they are electric, hybrid or hydrogen-fuelled vehicles.
This means that the Commission has to prioritise solving the problems that still afflict electric vehicle production, such as the cost of the batteries, the need for more research and development to improve features, and, most important, the harmonisation of electric vehicles and charge points, both globally and across Europe, in order to ensure a high level of competitiveness in the market, so that electric vehicles can compete with traditional internal-combustion engines on a level playing field.
Developing electric vehicles across Europe to replace conventional vehicles is a viable solution, with increased market potential.
in writing. - I welcome the Commission's recent strategy on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, and especially the new focus on electric cars instead of biofuels as part of the shift to greener transport.
A network of standardised charging points must also be put in place, and I encourage the Commission and Member States to work towards this standardised infrastructure to make electric cars viable for consumers and car manufacturers alike.
