Vice-President of the Commission/ High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, we have all been watching very closely the recent events in Tunisia and more lately in Egypt.
The people in both countries have voiced legitimate grievances and aspirations and they expect a proper response not only from within their countries but also from their partners, including the European Union.
I take this opportunity to express my admiration for their dignity and courage and, in the light of what we are seeing now on our television screens from Egypt in particular, I call for calm and restraint and dialogue.
The changes that have taken place have been remarkable and have paved the way for more democratic development of the country.
The transitional government has taken some important steps, in particular by freeing political prisoners and allowing freedom of expression, as well as prosecuting members of former President Ben Ali's family for corruption.
I have taken note too of the most recent government reshuffle in response to popular demand.
The government has received the support of the main opposition parties and the main trade union - the Tunisian General Labour Union.
The European Union is there to support the country and its people at this difficult moment of transition, and we have responded immediately - not in order to impose our views or ideas, but to offer our help and to work together.
Liberal policies alone cannot bring the needed economic and social welfare and wealth distribution for all the Tunisian people.
I offered concrete support, initially in the areas of electoral support; governance and transition to democracy; support for civil society and NGOs; support for the rule of law and judicial reform; economic governance and the fight against corruption; economic and social development (including support to impoverished areas in the centre and south of Tunisia).
Working-level contacts are well underway on all these issues and we will continue the dialogue.
I want to welcome too the European Parliament initiative to send a delegation to Tunisia.
I believe it is vital that the Tunisian people see the strong support of the EU, and in particular the European Parliament, in what is a critical moment of transition towards democracy.
We now have an opportunity to strengthen the partnership between Tunisia and the European Union on the basis of an affirmation of democracy and economic and social reform.
In that context I look forward to the upcoming free and democratic elections and the establishment of the new government.
The protests have spread from Cairo to Alexandria and Suez and further across Egypt and the crowds have continued to grow in size and diversity, with protestors united in their demands for regime change and for the observance of fundamental human rights.
Like all the honourable Members here, I deplore the considerable loss of life during the demonstrations and my thoughts go out to those who have lost their loved ones.
We have prepared for the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday with our conclusions calling upon the Egyptian authorities to immediately release all peaceful demonstrators who have been detained.
The imposed restrictions on media, including the Internet, are unacceptable and I urge the Egyptian authorities to restore all communication networks without delay.
Through nationwide demonstrations, the Egyptian people are expressing their wish to see change.
It is important that civil society plays a crucial role in that dialogue.
The Egyptian authorities must move forward quickly through a broad-based government leading to a genuine process of substantial democratic reform and paving the way for free and fair elections.
We will offer our full support to an Egypt that strives for transformation to be more democratic and more pluralist.
What we must do now is adapt and reinforce the means at our disposal to support the necessary political, economic and social reforms.
Our cooperation already has democracy, human rights and the rule of law as constituent elements and we have to refocus and strengthen that work.
We need to ask ourselves if there really is more stability, more prosperity and more democracy as the Barcelona Process intended.
We must also remember that a revolution or a social upheaval is a guarantee of change, but it is not a guarantee of change for the better.
We need to adopt a preventive and proactive attitude in this respect, and that requires strategy.
Another important factor is our capacity to talk to all valid actors, including the Islamic forces, in such a way as to be able to integrate all of them into a positive process.
Mr President, I believe that the events taking place at the moment in Tunisia, and especially over the last few hours in Egypt, are both historic and very tragic.
It is incredible, Mr President, that we, the so-called democratic continent, have still not managed to offer our unreserved support to the masses on the streets - masses who are calling for nothing other than our support. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard Baroness Ashton offer our support yet, either yesterday or today.
Firstly, we do not realise just what an historic moment this is, and, secondly, and much more importantly, we have misjudged the situation.
I shall give you a second example to show why we should not be afraid to call for open democracy in these countries.
Quite the contrary, they are revolutions for freedom. (Applause) Therefore, now that thousands of people have been gathering in Cairo for almost a week, and now that there are demonstrations in Jordan, Yemen, Syria and Algeria, I call on you, Baroness Ashton, to change the European Union's position.
I would like you to speak on our behalf and say clearly today, in this House, that the European Union is 100% behind the people of Egypt and their demands.
This must be said, Baroness Ashton, and we must not turn a blind eye.
However, when, three weeks ago, we in the European Parliament took the step of calling on you to halt the negotiations on the upgrading of Tunisia because of the dictatorship, you told us that that was not possible.
I therefore ask one thing of you, Baroness Ashton: tell us where, in the case of Tunisia, Europe has invested its money.
Secondly, Baroness Ashton, since you say that you are now going to support the people of Tunisia, I would ask you to ensure one thing: that there is equality of opportunity in the democratic process during the transition.
In Tunisia, Ben Ali was only the second leader since independence 53 years ago.
My group, the ECR Group, calls for a genuinely democratic and peaceful transition in Egypt.
Tunisia may have been authoritarian and corrupt, but it was profoundly secular and pro-Western; we must remember that.
Indeed this is also a danger in Egypt, where the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood is seeking to fill the political vacuum as we speak.
Hopefully, in future the choice in the Muslim world will not be between secular tyranny and Islamist theocracies but instead enduring democracy. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (FR) Mr President, I would simply like to address Mr Tannock in order to denounce his attitude towards those who are demonstrating today, and also expand on what Mr Verhofstadt and Mr Cohn-Bendit have said.
I should therefore like to ask you if you agree that the people have the right to revolt when they are being kept in poverty. (Applause) Mr President, I think I made it very clear in my speech that I do not want a secular tyrant or an Islamist theocrat running any of the countries in our neighbourhood.
The issue basically now is to see an orderly and peaceful transition in these countries and not a breakdown in law and order.
First of all, we must avoid interfering in any way in the internal affairs of these countries.
Yes, economic liberalisation in Tunisia has benefited the Ben Ali and Trabelsi families thanks to the European Union's help.
Yes, the European Union must be firm with regard to all human rights violations.
The European Union has lost a great deal of credibility in these countries.
Yes, finally, we must support the democrats and condemn all dictatorships.
Another danger is that the economic crisis in the area is likely to worsen, resulting in even greater youth unemployment and large influxes of migrants that Europe can no longer cope with.
Supporting the countries of this region in their journey should be at the heart of Europe's policy, alongside economic and trade assistance.
In all our involvement with them we have always advanced the principles of pluralistic democracy, freedom of the media, of expression and of assembly, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary, and good governance.
But we have always maintained that these principles should be realised from within, not imposed from outside.
The people of Tunisia succeeded, from within, in defying repression, a police state and torture, and in winning freedom and democracy.
The Tunisian authorities must respect the will of the people and proceed without delay to a process of democratisation, with accountability in cases of corruption or repression by the cronies of Ben Ali.
President Mubarak has to leave, that has to be made clear.
President Mubarak, as he is today - and I respect his long struggle - is incapable of leading the political transition; it is madness to ask that of him and to let the Mubarak clan square up to the ElBaradei clan today on the streets of Cairo.
We made a spectacular mistake: we supported corrupt regimes in the name of stability, with no thought for social justice or the peoples' aspirations for freedom. (Applause) This is a mistake that we must rectify, and now is the time to do so.
In 2005 I was the chairman of a small observer mission for the elections there.
Let us get it absolutely straight where we stand - in support of democracy and human rights, not only in Europe but around the world, and especially at this time in the Mediterranean. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I would like to repeat the call for you to provide us with the list of recipients of EU money in these countries.
For example, why not hold a big conference with your support where you go and support women for transition, highlighting their role and supporting them in order to strengthen and underline the laic and secular process in these countries.
That could be a feminist agenda for you. (Applause) (PL) Mr President, political powers throughout the world are gripped by the mass protests in Tunisia and, in particular, in the strategically important Egypt.
The Arab societies, which for years have been deprived of fundamental rights such as freedom of speech or the right to take part in free elections, are determined to bring about a change of power at all costs.
We should consider taking more tangible measures, and send an observation mission to Egypt. (ES) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the European Union needs to revise its neighbourhood policy, as it is clear that we have given the impression of being more concerned with reaching free trade agreements than with the development of peoples and their human rights.
The problem, Baroness Ashton, is not the European Union's position today on the Ben Ali or Mubarak regimes, but the position that the European Union took the day before yesterday, which did not show the slightest support for the changes that the people have demanded on the streets.
This is the problem that the European Union has to resolve: that we are not showing any support for the changes that the people are demanding, not only in Tunisia, but in Morocco, Egypt, Jordan and Yemen; a huge number of people that can no longer take autocracy or a crisis that affects the weakest.
The Iranian regime is hailing the arrival of the revolutionary wave which originated in its own country in 1979 and which they believe is now spreading across the Arab world, while the Iranian opposition considers itself the instigator of the mass popular protests in Tunis and Cairo.
However, that support should be given to genuine democratic forces and we should never intentionally assist an organisation such as the Muslim Brotherhood in establishing a theocratic dictatorship in Egypt by giving it the EU's support.
Otherwise, we will end up with situations such as that which we are now witnessing in Iran playing out across the whole region.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, be prudent in the future, be careful in your choice of partners and do not make things easy for the Islamists. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, our response to the events in the Arab world must be based on our concept of humanity.
If this is the case, then it also means that the people in the Arab countries have the right to live in freedom, in a democracy and with a way of life that respects human dignity.
Freedom will prevail in the end, and therefore to all those who are using violence today we must say: stop shooting and give the people freedom by means of free elections.
We ought to put all our efforts into supporting this in word and deed, including in this House. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, some people say that you cannot learn from history.
With regard to the heckling concerning Iran - and Mr Cohn-Bendit has already responded to that - I would like to mention once again what happened in Iran at that time.
The United States, together with the United Kingdom, overthrew Mohammad Mossadegh, who wanted a peaceful revolution.
I believe that we need to say very clearly - and in this regard I agree with my fellow Member who has already mentioned this - that we need to be on the side of the people who started and stepped up this revolution - and this was not the Islamists.
Let us be pleased about the great opportunity presented by the fact that the revolution was not started by the Islamists but by the people on the street, by ordinary citizens, who were dissatisfied with social injustice, the economic situation and the lack of democracy.
Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at ourselves with a self-critical eye because part of our neighbourhood strategy has collapsed as a result of this.
We therefore need to speak and express our opinion clearly.
Peace in the Middle East will be lasting only if it is based on democracy and not on dictatorships.
Therefore, Baroness Ashton, we must express our opinion loud and clear.
The events in Tunisia, which was regarded as a haven of stability and economic security, are strikingly similar to those which initiated the downfall of the Soviet bloc in Eastern Europe.
The demands are clear and the Tunisian and Egyptian peoples would not agree to any half measures.
Many of the prerequisites for the transition to democracy are already gaining ground, such as an active, well-organised civil society, a free press, respected opposition figures and existing political parties.
However, we need to revise completely our current foreign policy, Baroness Ashton.
The European Union should make a strategic choice, striking a balance between its political and economic interests and the democratic values which unite us.
Europe must demonstrate that it stands squarely behind democracy and not merely supports stability in the region.
The second revolution in the Arab world is happening now in front of our eyes.
A truth process in Tunisia is already beginning, but the European Union needs a truth process itself, so great has its negligence of human rights and democratic values been in the Arab world over the years.
I see the current riots and chaos as a revolution for change that is motivated by striving for a better life.
The position of the EU should stay firmly on the side of those who are striving for freedom and who relentlessly support free elections. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, obviously the overwhelming majority in Parliament supports the uprising in Egypt and that is, of course, quite right, although there are a few exceptions, as we heard just now.
Those of us here who represent Cyprus, one of Egypt's neighbours, are monitoring events extremely closely and, I repeat, we support the rights of the Egyptian people in this uprising. (IT) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, as many have said, it is certainly desirable for democracy to be established in North Africa, just as we have democracy here in Europe.
Our fear, Baroness Ashton, is that we might one day end up with an Islamic dictatorship in North Africa.
I therefore call upon the Commission and the High Representative to be vigilant over these matters. (NL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, stop being so naïve.
The most important opposition party, the Muslim Brotherhood, wants war with Israel.
Because Islam and democracy cannot coexist.
I would like you to communicate that loud and clear, because I do not want to see a naïve Madam Ashton going to Egypt with the wrong message.
What we can do is call on the Egyptians to elect, not the Muslim Brotherhood, but secular leaders. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Baroness Ashton, I may have been hard on you in the past, but I have to admit that this business must be making your life very complicated, so I hope that what I have to say may be able to help.
This is what happened in Tunisia and in Egypt, because political situations that began with the profound idealism of winning independence had been regimes for many years.
Our task is to defend the liberty and democracy in the hearts of those who are today defending it in the streets.
If we do not have this strategy, it will make no difference whether or not we speak with one voice, because our words will be meaningless. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Baroness Ashton, I get the impression that you are not yet sufficiently aware of what is going on in the Mediterranean region.
I have to say that the slowness of the EU institutions in addressing the Mediterranean question can only be explained by a lack of awareness of the situation and an inability to sense the changes that are afoot.
In particular, we need clear policies in a number of areas: a new partnership and neighbourhood policy, and a new security policy for the Mediterranean region; greater willingness from the whole of Europe to address the Mediterranean issue; and a policy of joint action so that Europe will be acting in the region alongside other players, such as the United States and Turkey.
We need a major change of course and this calls for an act of considerable humility on the Commission's part in reopening the debate on foreign policy towards the Mediterranean and taking a fresh look at the Union for the Mediterranean, whilst at the same time ensuring that Europe has a role within it.
The Arab peoples aspire to development and democracy, and as the two go hand in hand, in Tunisia as in Egypt, these peoples have taken their destiny into their own hands in order to impose the change to which they are entitled.
More than 20 years after the fall of the Wall, we are witnessing a historic change.
Madam President, the great danger for Egypt and the other North African countries is, of course, that the overthrow of their governments will not usher in Western-style liberal democracy but rather Islamic fundamentalist rule and a new dark age, such as we saw in Iran.
And you can repress people for so long and so much, but there is always the possibility that they will rebel.
Now there is a parallel here with Britain, where successive governments of all political colours have consistently betrayed our country and surrendered our rights of democratic self-determination to the European Union.
Tunisia, like Iraq and Egypt, was a politically repressive regime even by Middle Eastern standards, but it was also, by Middle Eastern standards, a secular, even socially liberal, one.
It is certainly not our job to rescue the populations of these countries and bring them into Europe. (PT) Madam President, the world, and Europe in particular, cannot remain indifferent to the strength of an intense movement of popular opposition taking place in several countries of North Africa and the Middle East, or fail to acknowledge the importance and legitimacy of these demonstrations.
Objectively, it must be pointed out that Islamic extremism has been emerging as a political - and not religious - response to some of these problems, fed by and as a response to social exclusion.
Next to us here is a part of the world that must take advantage of this moment of rebirth to go further down the path towards peace and social progress.
Madam President, I am concluding.
Baroness Ashton, instead of just a few leaders acting together or in isolation - in Portuguese we say 'it is hard to be the priest in one's own parish' - what is needed is for Europe as a whole to take a leading role in aiding these reforms and to find a new paradigm for the Middle East that avoids radicalism and respects human rights, and women's rights in particular. (NL) Madam President, at this very moment, violent confrontations are under way between pro- and anti-Mubarak protesters.
What is happening in Egypt has come as a surprise to us all.
We should approach this as an incredible opportunity and an opportunity to help this region evolve, after years of political and economic stagnation, into a true democracy, with opportunities for all.
All democratic forces should be brought to the table, as soon as possible, to steer this in the right direction and Europe should play a positive and constructive role in this.
At the same time, we must be aware of the complexity of the situation.
If we want to implement genuine democratic reforms, then economic reforms will also be necessary, and that is not going to be easy. (NL) Madam President, I have listened with great interest to what Madam High Representative and my fellow members have had to say.
I shall take the liberty of saying that I am amazed by such statements, because we have actually known for a long time that these were not exactly democratic regimes and that, instead, they were authoritarian or very authoritarian regimes which kept their peoples under their thumb.
However, I would like to stress the fact that the recent events in the Mediterranean have astounded us all, because until a few weeks ago they were completely unforeseen.
The External Action Service led by Baroness Ashton seems to have been caught by surprise and in my opinion is now demonstrating a poor response capacity.
We uphold the right of all peoples to decide on their own government and their own ruling class through free, democratic elections, not through actions imposed by brute force and extremism.
As has been said, it is time that stability and democracy went hand-in-hand.
Therefore, we are now using all legitimate means to strengthen democracy and political pluralism, with respect for the rule of law, human rights and citizens' safety.
The European Union must change its own policy and strive without further delay to provide adequate aid and collaboration to help bring about the necessary socioeconomic development in all Mediterranean countries. (ES) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Tunisian democrats have given us an exemplary lesson in maturity in recent times.
Here in Parliament, tomorrow we vote on a resolution - there is going to be a delegation in the country - and our support, our democratic guarantee is also very important in these moments, particularly in Tunisia, then in Egypt and all those countries that are demanding more freedom.
The Commission alone has spent a total of almost EUR 3 billion on this in the past 15 years.
European companies, such as Vodafone and French Telecom, have had a strong presence in Egypt and in killing the connections by flipping the switch and shutting Egypt down.
I would like to see an inquiry into the role that European companies played in the violations of human rights by hampering free expression, a free press and access to information and creating an environment in which human rights violations could go undocumented. (PL) Madam President, Mrs Ashton, in my opinion the European Union made several mistakes in its past relations with Tunisia and Egypt.
We made a mistake as far as Tunisia is concerned when we failed to speak up after Ben Ali won the presidential elections in 2009.
I should add, by way of a reminder, that he won 90% of votes, but that the elections were neither free nor democratic.
Moreover, we have seen over recent weeks that there is political progress at least in the sense that the incipient revolt is the extremely clear and obvious expression of a desire for freedom.
At the same time, as we have seen tonight, some of us fear that this wind of change will not necessarily lead to secularism or to the continuation of a secular state, to moderation or to stability.
These peoples are expecting a response from us that is equal to their courage and aspirations.
We must support the hope created by the events in Tunisia and Egypt in order to help affirm and establish democracies that will benefit these countries and their populations, but which will also benefit us, and I believe that you have expressed this forcefully, Baroness Ashton.
Go to Cairo before the Council of Foreign Ministers.
Speak with the government representatives and with the opposition there.
I believe that Tahrir Square in Cairo in 2011 is equivalent to Alexanderplatz in Berlin in 1989.
I do believe that Europe can dictate the setup in these countries.
Those on the streets, despite being very large in number, are a vocal minority who actually represent an even larger silent majority.
High Representative, this is not a time for limp wrists.
Have strength in your stride, send a clear message: Mubarak must go now. (MT) Madam President, there is no doubt that Europe could have done considerably more to help the Arab world and its countries on their path towards democracy.
However, if there is to be one positive outcome of the dramatic events that we have witnessed, then it must certainly be that the Arabs have taken control of their own destiny in order to better their situation.
North Africa is fired up and is demanding more democracy, better economies, more participation and more employment, while looking in disbelief at the old continent of Europe, which is immobile and unable to grasp the social transformation that has taken place in the region or to develop genuine policies for progress and peace.
Europe needs to be pay closer attention to human rights and democracy and must promote more dialogue, more collaboration and more genuine economic assistance.
The grass-roots changes in Tunisia, caused by public support for Ben Ali running out, may mean the chance of a better future for this country.
In spite of his feudal rule, Hosni Mubarak acted as a guarantor of stability in Egypt.
If he is overthrown now, given that the lack of suitable conditions to date has meant that no democratic opposition has formed - and this is a point I would like to stress - it would appear that Egypt may be pushed into the arms of extreme political groups linked to the Muslim Brotherhood.
While recognising his fundamental flaws, as well as the legitimacy of the protests against what has been happening under his regime, we should give thought as to what the optimum solution would be in this situation, and what approach should be taken by the European Union. (ES) Madam President, the events taking place in Tunisia and Egypt are very significant and it is possible that these processes of change will spread to other countries in the Mediterranean region, which is a region of the highest importance to the European Union.
However, the wider perception is, unfortunately, that the European Union has been almost absent from these processes in recent weeks.
We have heard several speeches by President Obama, we have heard statements from Secretary of State Clinton, and we have even heard about contact between the Tunisian Army and representatives of the US Army...
The initial measures taken by the transition government in Tunisia are heading in the right direction.
The call for democracy and human rights is neither interference in internal affairs nor can it be denounced as something that has contributed to destabilising the situation.
This situation requires political leadership by the High Representative.
Or there is Alistair Burt, UK Foreign Office Minister, saying he wanted stability in Egypt more than anything.
William Hague, declining to say how soon he would like to see elections taking place, is now calling for transition.
Finally, I agree with Baroness Ashton, our High Representative.
Whatever the wrongs and the baggage of the past, she and we should see this as a crisis in the region but an opportunity for Europe to devote our resources to building respect for democracy and human rights.
We have no guarantee that the revolt in Tunisia, Egypt and other countries in the area will not become a pretext for the seizure of power by Islamic extremists, as happened in Iran.
Mrs Ashton, the European Union's policy to date in this region of the world has ended in a fiasco.
It is already time for Mubarak to go; his time has passed.
The European Union has decided to support the Tunisian leaders in their efforts to begin a peaceful transition, organise the forthcoming elections in order to win freedom and help the Tunisian people to enjoy the prosperity that comes from development and social peace, and from an economy that gives employment to the young.
It must implement a strong strategy towards these countries.
However, we know that, in the long run, it is freedom and respect for human rights and freedoms that every individual desires and also has the right to attain.
However, whatever they stand for, in the long run it is freedom and respect for human rights and freedoms that must be given priority by us here in this Chamber and by the European Parliament as a whole. - (SK) Madam President, more than two years of monitoring has revealed to us the gradual erosion of democracy, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion in the countries under discussion.
Election results in these countries provide clear evidence.
It should not have escaped the notice of the primary representative of the EU in this country that the transitional government in Tunisia is now aiming to enter into four international agreements for the protection of human rights, that all political prisoners have been released, dissidents have returned and democratic elections are being prepared and conducted.
We must support this process, and Parliament wants to hear you speak more forcefully on this issue. (IT) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis should give us the impetus to find out whether the European Union really wants a foreign policy role.
Baroness Ashton, more democracy is certainly needed in that part of the world, but so is more European policy. - (SK) Madam President, we are witnessing enormous tension and conflict between the government and civil society in Tunisia and Egypt, which has inevitably come about as a result of serious, long-term problems in the economy and society that were ignored by the state authorities.
The physical violence during the clashes is at best regrettable, and only confirms the urgent need for external support for a peaceful transition to democracy.
Our public reactions have been timid, expressing concern and addressing pious appeals for restraint and dialogue in the middle of revolutions, demonstrating a lack of practical sense.
And, in the end we should respect their right to decide for themselves. (SL) Madam President, when the revolution that is currently taking place in the streets of Cairo ends, the Egyptian people will choose a political system and their leaders.
The chances are that there will also be those who will give credit to President Mubarak for the positive role he has played in maintaining some degree of stability in the Middle East.
The developments in Tunisia and Egypt reveal the marginal role played by the European Union in the Mediterranean and throughout the regions covered by our neighbourhood policy.
We need a strategy for the countries of the former Soviet Union in Central Asia and Transcaucasia.
There is a great deal of work here for you, Baroness Ashton.
Our financial instruments need to be adapted in order to provide reliable support for the champions of democracy ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Madam President, I think that these two countries and others in this region demonstrate how, on several occasions in recent years, Europe's leaders have managed to be more on the side of business than on that of democracy, and more on the side of the dictators than on that of the poor.
We must show solidarity with the millions of Egyptians in Cairo and throughout the country who are sick of hunger, sick of oppression and sick of unemployment.
That is why we must say that we have to stand side by side with these people following President Mubarak's speech today, following the regime's releasing of its hounds, and following its clearing of the way for violence.
If we had heard these suggestions 36 years ago in Portugal, we would have gone home.
Madam High Representative of the European Union, if there is any further delay in mounting a professional response to current events in Tunisia and Egypt, our taxpayers will be justified in wondering why they are paying this multitude of different bureaucrats in the EU's foreign service, if they are incapable of drafting an immediate and professional response for you to the stormy events in Europe. (DE) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, optimists believe that the revolutionary events in Tunisia and Egypt could be the beginning of something like an Arabic Spring of Nations - events like those we saw in Eastern Europe in 1989, for example.
However, we should not forget that we Europeans and the West as a whole have to a certain extent also entered into agreements with the most unpleasant and most brutal dictatorships in the Arab world.
Although Facebook, the Internet and Twitter are the modern means of driving a revolution, they do not replace the democratic structures and the rule of law that need to be in place behind the scenes for a revolution to be able to make the transition into a democratic system.
What we Europeans can and should do is to make our position clear and to help to build these democratic structures in order, ultimately, to be able to bring the rule of law as well as a free market economy, which are necessary for a democracy, into these regions.
We have been in contact hourly with those in Tunisia and with the people in Egypt, with our delegations, to whom I pay tribute for what they have had to deal with in the last couple of weeks, and also in direct contact with the government and with the services.
We need to make sure that we have a more diversified approach, that we take each country and we work out what it is we want to achieve with the people of that country - yes, to do more with civil society, yes, to focus on human rights and democracy and, yes, to deal with the common foreign policy issues that we have with them.
If you look at the work we have been doing in the last two or three months, you will see a common theme in what I have been saying, which has been the need to be more active in our neighbourhood.
We use that word in the Council conclusions for a reason, because I believe in transformation, not just for today and tomorrow but for the long term.
The weekend before last I spent in talks with the Iranians and you know how passionately I feel about human rights in Iran because of all the statements I have made, because of all the issues that we have raised.
Neither have I forgotten Albania, where Miroslav Lajčák goes back on my behalf this week to continue that dialogue.
It is really important that I get your support to do this - not quietly, I can be very loud - but properly with cohesion, with direction, with purpose, with a strategy and a plan so that, when the Tunisian Foreign Minister comes to my office, I give him a plan.
The vote on the motions for resolutions on Tunisia will take place on Thursday.
I would like to take the opportunity to recall that in 1995 the EU launched a partnership programme with the Mediterranean in Barcelona, which aimed to bring about economic, political, military and social cooperation.
There have been reports of several people being wounded and killed in clashes taking place across the country between the police and people demonstrating against President Mubarak's government.
I believe that the path we need to take in these countries' interests, but in Europe's interests especially, is that of supporting economic and social reforms capable of meeting the aspirations of much of the population and which ought to bring peace and a gradual improvement in living conditions in the countries of North Africa.
In 1995, the European Union outlined the ambitious target of creating peace, stability and prosperity in the Mediterranean region.
We talk about human rights, about the need for social dialogue, and about economic development, and yet for decades we have ignored the fact that Tunisia and other North African countries have been ruled by cruel and undemocratic regimes.
The wave of indignation in the countries of Africa and their peoples' struggles, in particular, those of the peoples of Tunisia and Egypt, demand our greatest attention and solidarity.
In the specific case of Egypt, whose people continue to fight for their social and labour rights, for social justice, for democracy and for freedom, we vehemently condemn the repression that, under orders from President Mubarak's Government, has been and continues to be directed at the struggling workers and people, and we pay homage to the almost 100 Egyptian citizens killed by state violence.
Just as in Tunisia and several other countries of the Arab world and of Africa, the situation in Egypt is intrinsically linked to the deepening of the crisis of capitalism and the violent antisocial offensive that characterises it, not least in view of the exponential growth of unemployment affecting young people and the exponential rise in food prices.
After all, these events are taking place in countries in our immediate neighbourhood.
I do not believe that Tunisia and Egypt are dreaming of democracy as it is understood in the West.
in writing. - The first conclusion to be drawn from the profound changes taking place in Tunisia, Egypt and elsewhere is that the democratic world was absolutely unprepared for them.
The same happened 20 years ago when the Soviet Union collapsed.
In Realpolitik, these values have systematically been neglected or undervalued in favour of stability or pragmatic short-sighted relationships.
Only genuine democracy can provide for a long-term stability.
In situations of this kind, the EU should promote these values and do everything it can to ensure that the Arab countries avoid civil war or the taking over of power by extremists.
I would like to stress that our support must be limited to political measures, and must not include military action.
The EU needs to be more present in the region, and the entire European neighbourhood policy needs to be revised, which will make it possible to promote democracy more effectively not only in the Arab countries, but also in countries neighbouring us to the east, such as Belarus.
We need effective strategic plans which include appropriate EU financial aid for promoting democracy, civil society and human rights.
I believe that the EU should speak with one voice and express unequivocal condemnation for anti-democratic regimes.
The events taking place in innumerable Arab countries, especially Tunisia and Egypt, are demonstrations that will go down in the history of peoples' liberation from authoritarian regimes that do not respect the basic rules of a democratic society: the rule of law and the defence of human rights.
in writing. - While democratic progress in the Arab world should be encouraged, the strategic interests of the EU should not be endangered.
The Iranian Revolution of 1979 is a famous example of democratic upheaval that turned autocratic.
We should strike a fine balance between the social policies of President Mubarak and Egypt's strategic line.
There is hope and there is danger in the ongoing events in Egypt.
The riots triggered in the Arab world by young Mohamed Bouazizi setting himself alight do not feature at all any manifest religious or ideological element.
Socio-economic demands are naturally the prime concern at a time when, in Egypt, the rise in food prices has exacerbated the tough conditions in which half of the country's 80 million population struggle to live, surviving below the poverty line on two dollars a day.
I believe that our attitude towards the events unfolding in the Arab world must take into account, on the one hand, the natural support for the desire for freedom, but on the other hand, we cannot ignore the threats to global stability that may result from the collapse of this region, which is becoming increasingly unpredictable, chaotic or under Islamist influence.
Baroness Catherine Ashton welcomed the PM and it was clearly appreciated that the EU was the venue for his first foreign visit.
It stands for stability and security, in this case in the Mediterranean region.
What happens during this transitional period is not only important for my country but also for the region.
Countries which embrace democratic values and contribute to stability and security in a region must be appreciated for their endeavours.
That is why it is vital that the EU illustrates this appreciation both visibly and tangibly.
The UN announced yesterday that over 200 people have died as a result of the disturbances accompanying the revolution in Tunisia.
It should compel every one of us to make all the more effort to achieve democratisation of both this country and the region as a whole, particularly since the old order is collapsing before our eyes in Egypt as well.
In the case of Tunisia, however, the instruments at our disposal are perhaps less spectacular, but they are capable of producing very tangible results.
These are concrete tasks to which the European Parliament must now turn its attention.
in writing. - I would like to echo the admiration expressed during the debate in respect of the courage of the people of both Tunisia and Egypt in expressing their discontent and disappointment with their respective regimes.
By now the unrest has escalated to the point of no return and the European Union must contribute to the transition process that has been sparked off.
There have been some cautious voices calling for sustaining the status quo, especially in Egypt, arguing that overthrowing the regime might lead to a civil war, which in turn might bring religious fundamentalists to power.
I would like to remind you that when the Eastern bloc was on the verge of collapsing, there were still some who would not have rocked the boat for fear of future instability in the region.
