Trafficking in human beings (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Bauer and Mrs Hedh, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims, repealing Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA - C7-0087/2010 -.
co-rapporteur. - Madam President, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to my co-rapporteur, Ms Hedh, the Council and the Commission and all those who were involved in this demanding work.
I would therefore like to begin by thanking Mrs Malmström for producing a legislative proposal on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings so quickly.
I would also like to thank my fellow Member from the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, Mrs Bauer, for her excellent cooperation, and all of the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on the directive.
Since 79% of victims of human trafficking are women and because sexual exploitation is by far the most usual type of human trafficking, it is crucial to view the legislation from a gender perspective and for all measures that are proposed to be analysed from the point of view of gender.
We therefore proposed that it should be mandatory for all Member States to criminalise those who knowingly use the services of victims of human trafficking.
Thus, the Member States will not be forced to criminalise these people, but they will have to report on the measures they have taken to tackle demand for services provided by victims of human trafficking.
However, we have put this issue on the agenda, and at EU level we received support for our proposal from the relevant committees in Parliament as well as from experts, the police and voluntary organisations.
Let us now stand together to put a stop to the trafficking in human beings in Europe, which is a modern form of slavery.
Globally, however, this is a good result which is fully in line with the objectives of Parliament, of the Council and of the Commission, namely, to fight human trafficking, this horrible modern slavery, this horrible crime which is not worthy of Europe in 2010 and which is a grave violation of the fundamental rights of so many citizens.
I would really like to thank Parliament, in particular, the two rapporteurs, Ms Bauer and Ms Hedh, the shadow rapporteurs and all the others who made it possible to reach an agreement.
Madam President, I would like to begin by applauding Mrs Bauer and Mrs Hedh for their comprehensive treatment of this extremely important issue.
The Treaty of Lisbon has enhanced the activity of the European Union in various areas of criminal law, including the fight against human trafficking.
We must adopt preventive measures targeting human trafficking itself.
I would like to point out another important issue which I propose should be included in this piece of legislation.
This directive concerns prosecution, prevention and protection in the area of human trafficking.
Another aspect that leads to heated debate in this House is the question of whether or not those who use the services of a trafficked individual should be penalised.
It could be said that the draft directive is extremely important for the hundreds of thousands of victims of human trafficking and it should put an end to their lawless status.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to estimates from international organisations and police forces, trafficking in human beings is now globally the second largest source of profit for organised crime, after drug trafficking.
It is thought that around 30 million people are victims of organ trafficking, prostitution and forced labour.
Faced with a problem of these proportions, Europe must rightly take drastic measures against those who exploit human beings in various ways.
The basic principle of European political action must be to 'help them in their own homes', so that our efforts are directed not only at suppression, but also at prevention.
The fact that there are numerous references to the trafficking of human beings in the Treaty of Lisbon confirms the immediacy and the seriousness of the problem.
Fifty years after the United Nations convention, there are still hundreds of thousands of people in our civilised Europe - mainly women and children - who are reduced to slavery.
However, I am hoping for a revision of the 2004 directive on the resident permit for victims.
I would also underline that in the proposal, we provide for the safeguarding of children through strengthened measures and I support Commissioner Malmström's call for further measures against sex tourism and child pornography. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I, too, would like to express my sincere thanks to the two rapporteurs.
Thank you for your cooperation.
It is therefore a good thing that this rests with the Member States, and I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation. (NL) Madam President, the basis of many of the current developments was laid down as far back as hundreds of years ago.
The current fight against human trafficking is a continuation of the struggle that William Wilberforce once began.
The current proposal does not require that any particularly heavy penalties be imposed on human traffickers who have been arrested a number of times.
I am in favour of an approach where a trafficker who is arrested for a second or a third offence must receive a mandatory life sentence. (PT) Madam President, it is important for everyone to join in the fight against trafficking in human beings, with a view to eradicating it.
That is also a way forward which it is essential to promote here in the European Union. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, it has been proven that the most effective way of combating trafficking in human beings is to set an example by imposing strict penalties on traffickers.
We cannot adopt measures here on climate change and environmental pollution without setting quantifiable targets for combating this crime. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must congratulate Mrs Bauer and Mrs Hedh on the excellent work they have done in this report.
For the first time, there are strong guarantees concerning the protection of victims, special attention for child victims, the non-prosecution of victims who break the law due to their enslavement and the recognition of the role and support of NGOs in the process.
It is a very proud day for the whole Parliament. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, with this directive, we are taking a huge step towards combating human trafficking in an efficient manner.
However, I would like to come back to the general question of criminal law and criminal procedure in the Member States.
I am therefore very pleased that an agreement has successfully been reached between the Council and Parliament on this new directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings.
The protection of human rights and human dignity must be a clear priority in our work, and a common approach by the Member States is essential.
I am also pleased with the provisions of Article 7, which directs Member States not to prosecute people for their involvement in criminal activities that they have been compelled to commit as victims of trafficking.
However, to be more effective and credible in this fight, Europe, as the heir to the history of the European States, should recognise the slave trade and slavery as crimes against humanity, as some Member States have done, and I want to mention France in particular. (IT) Madam President, the plague of trafficking in human beings is a phenomenon that has taken on particularly worrying dimensions.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, thank you for this important debate.
The criminalisation issue merits a debate in itself, but it is stated in Article 19 of the directive that the Commission will, in some years, submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council 'assessing the impact of existing national law criminalising the users of services which are the objects of exploitation of trafficking in human beings on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, accompanied, if necessary, by adequate proposals'.
What I have heard today was the opposite of that, and I would like to thank my fellow Members for exhibiting this political will to take a tremendous step forward in relation to human trafficking.
I would also like to thank Mrs Tzavela for requesting the very opposite, that we make the penalty even stricter.
Madam President, I would like to offer my thanks for all of the excellent contributions and the support that we have received in the Chamber for this legislation to prevent human trafficking.
Thank you for all your support.
Written statements (Rule 149) Trafficking in human beings - in the various forms that this can take, including sexual exploitation, illegal trading in human organs, forced labour or illegal adoptions - represents a serious violation of the human rights set out in the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The extent of this problem is striking, and experience has shown that the European Union's current legal framework on the issue is not effective enough.
Cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council therefore plays a strategic role in developing a European policy to address this problem effectively.
The Treaty of Lisbon strengthened the powers of the European Union regarding judicial and police cooperation between Member States in criminal matters.
I agree that, in order to discourage demand, it would be a good idea for the European Union and the Member States to make a greater commitment to awareness-raising campaigns in the countries of origin, transit and destination of trafficking.
I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs for the work they have done, because this historic directive is a very important step in combating the scale of trafficking in human beings, by laying down clear levels of penalties and sanctions.
Although numerous EU and national laws have already been adopted and multiannual political commitments have been made in this area, it is calculated that several hundred thousand people are trafficked each year within the EU and beyond its borders.
This demonstrates that combating trafficking in human beings, in particular, women and children, remains a huge problem and one of the worst violations of human rights.
In addition to penalties, the Member States should include such sanctions as the seizure of assets and take the necessary measures to seize and confiscate instrumentalities and proceeds from the offences, because then these offences would not be economically viable.
in writing. - Today's vote on human trafficking comes at a crucial juncture in the ongoing fight against this form of modern-day slavery.
in writing. - The phenomenon of organised crime is something that the European Union needs to tackle head on.
in writing. - Trafficking in human beings is a crime against human dignity that ruins the lives of many children and women throughout the world.
The directive relating to human trafficking is an important step forward, because human trafficking is a reality, even in Europe.
The scope of activities covered by the term human trafficking should be revised and extended.
This is the only way we will be able to prevent problems such as: 1) commercial adoption, or, in other words, private adoption involving the relinquishment of rights to the child before the family courts, most frequently for payment; 2) pregnant women leaving the country and returning with no child; 3) the disappearance of children whose parents have died in countries affected by armed conflicts.
