Revised Hungarian constitution (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the revised Hungarian constitution.
Under Article 4(1) and (2) of the Treaty on the European Union, the adoption of a constitution remains in the exclusive competence of the Member State concerned.
Therefore, the Council has not been in a position to discuss the newly adopted constitution of Hungary.
The adoption of a new constitution in a Member State is a matter for its people, for its institutions in accordance with the applicable national law and, where relevant, Union and international law.
It goes without saying that the constitution of every Member State should reflect and comply with the European values of freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, human dignity and respect of human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, without discrimination, as laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty.
The Commission is also following the work of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe on this matter, and we are expecting a report on 17-18 June.
I also know that Thomas Markert, the secretary of the Venice Commission, was in the Committee on Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on 25 May, and I read with great interest the remarks which he made.
In effect, however, you are betraying one of the most important principles of the Treaty of Lisbon, namely Article 4(2): 'The Union shall respect the equality of Member States before the Treaties as well as their national identities, inherent in their fundamental structures, political and constitutional'.
If you have not organised or will not organise debates concerning the states I have mentioned above, or failed to remember here, in the European Parliament, that the socialist government of Hungary blatantly ignored the right to assembly in 2006, then you, ladies and gentlemen, are using double measures.
The new Hungarian constitution does not weaken, but strengthens the principles of division of power, and checks and balances.
The new Hungarian constitution is a European constitution in spirit, born in the spirit of ensuring all fundamental human rights to its citizens, and of cooperation and unity of nations.
That is surely why this revision of the Hungarian constitution is being debated in the European Parliament and has been the subject of consideration by two of this House's committees in particular, namely, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (AFCO) and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE).
I think the primary concern can be summarised as the one underlying the impression that what is certainly a very large political majority, a two-thirds majority, but nonetheless a circumstantial political majority in the Hungarian Parliament, has succeeded in forcing a constitutional reform that places constraints on the achievement of political pluralism and, consequently, on the possibility of alternating between different political projects under the same set of rules of play.
I think that is why it has caused concern, from the point of view of its concordance with the principles enshrined in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty on European Union and with the political dimension of the rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
My own country's leaders have been inspired by these actions, and some recent amendments to our Romanian constitution seem to be copied and pasted.
We need to strive to make all European citizens feel not worried but reassured that our values are at the core of our legislation and are there to stay.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, this debate is an evaluation of the situation regarding the new Hungarian constitution, not the common law of the United Kingdom which has protected our citizens for nearly 900 years.
The state of democracy in a Member State of the EU does concern the other Member States.
I quote György Konrád here, who says: 'In Hungary, a so-called majority knows how to create an autocratic regime in a democratic way'.
It is the right of a nation to say every four years, 'We liked this, but we did not like that', and to then bring about changes.
The issue of non-discrimination ...
However, we then have the debate about the debate, and the debate about the legitimacy of this issue being pronounced on in Parliament must also be fought very clearly.
The two-thirds majority - very often invoked here, and which, in fact, comes from 50% rather than two thirds of the votes cast by Hungarian citizens, since they make up two thirds of the Members of the Hungarian Parliament, but only 50% of the votes - serves for one thing everywhere: to confer a broad social consensus on the constitution.
It may be following the letter of the two-thirds rule, but it is violating its spirit. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (BG) Mr Tavares, I have a very brief question for you.
It is very simple: whilst we have such a mandate, Mr Stoyanov and I have as much a right as each other to speak on behalf of the 500 million European citizens in this House, which belongs to the citizens.
The ruling Fidesz party has introduced into the constitution versions of texts through which Hungary usurps the right to decide on the status, rights and political organisation of all Hungarian-speaking citizens in surrounding states.
It has also reserved the right to provide all of these citizens of surrounding states, who have no links to Hungary whatsoever, with Hungarian citizenship, the right to vote in Hungary, the right to social security or education under Hungarian regulations and universal Hungarian diplomatic protection.
First of all, if we are going to discuss the content of a constitution, we should not single out one constitution of one Member State.
We should, if anything, debate the constitutions of each and every Member State.
Some of the elements which are being contested can, in fact, be found in a number of other constitutions in other Member States, and yet we are only debating one constitution in one Member State.
Member States have a sovereign competence for establishing their own national constitutions, and in this case, we should respect the right of the Hungarian people to determine their own constitution adopted by their democratically-elected national parliament.
The debate we are having today on the content of this constitution should, if anything, be held amongst Hungarian people, and not in this House.
We would stand accused of political instrumentalisation, and we would be undermining the trust of citizens in our own institution.
We should not go down this dangerous road. (SK) Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, I would like to declare unambiguously that we recognise the right of all EU Member States to make their own laws, and thus we do not want to criticise either Hungary or, in particular, the citizens of Hungary.
Weak points have been seen in the Hungarian constitution not only by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, but also by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
If we ignore the Romantic, almost monarchist ideas which pervade the spirit of the preamble, I would like to mention some areas we regard as being highly sensitive, in contrast to our fellow Members from Fidesz who are also Members of the European Parliament.
The Treaties, in Articles 6 and 7, make it crystal clear not only that the Union and the Member States share certain values, but that the Commission has the duty to police respect for those values.
But I want to give a good example of one flaw in the constitution that undermines the Treaty's insistence on the rule of law.
The constitutions of Member States have to be in accordance with European values, with our value community which we have defined.
With regard to the rights of future generations, environmental sustainability is something that is enshrined in the rights of our common European Union.
Some Member States have that and others might not have it, but the fact is that in the new constitution, the government of Hungary has abolished this symbolic Ombudsman.
That means that you do not want to have this symbolic representation, either at the political or the Ombudsman level. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) Madam President, maybe it was not understandable, but I shall make the question more simple.
Ms Lunacek, in your country - I know you are from Austria - is there a Green Ombudsman?
You have not explained that, colleagues. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly astounded by the instrumental tone of this debate.
In my country's constitution, there is no mention of this issue, and so when will the European Parliament be holding a debate on the Italian constitution?
As far as I am concerned, I think we should all familiarise ourselves a little more with the text of the European constitution, which did not actually materialise but which had the motto 'United in diversity', and try to be a little more tolerant of the fact that everyone is different.
The EU offers to and demands from its Member States a clear framework for the rule of law, constitutional guarantees, institutional checks and balances, and negotiated solutions.
Clearly, colleagues, there are objective concerns that have been expressed not only by political parties but also by the Venice Commission, and, at the very least, there are ambiguities.
This may not please all Members of this House.
I am pleased that this reference to Christianity has been included and I would also have liked to have seen it included in the Treaty of Lisbon and in the European constitution.
European values are being questioned in the new Hungarian constitution.
Sadly, the Hungarian constitution does not fulfil these criteria.
The new constitution raises questions on an international level.
The constitution fails to provide an EU-conforming, modern, administrative structure.
However, in this particular case, we must make it clear that we should not play party politics here.
Above all, we must emphasise that it is scandalous to criticise the constitution of a Member State in this forum, whichever Member State that may be.
However, solidarity must be based on shared values, and all of the groups within this House are responsible for sustaining such values.
Although the Charter of Fundamental Rights may only be binding on European legislation and its implementation, Articles 2, 6 and 7 of the Treaties are binding on all Member States.
Because what you are saying is too general. (DE) Madam President, many thanks for your question.
European values are one thing; however, European values also mean, for example, that a Member State should operate on the rule of law, which entails issues such as the separation of powers and the democratic principle.
When, for example, a constitutional court has no jurisdiction in budgetary and taxation matters, this constitutes a restriction in the separation of powers and is unquestionably a dubious situation.
With regard to the other questions, such as the two-thirds majority, I must ask to what extent this is compatible with parliamentary democracy if future governments no longer have any room to manoeuvre.
It is certainly open to question whether life imprisonment without any right of appeal or judicial review by the supreme court is compatible with the principles of democracy and the rule of law upheld in the European Union.
These are questions that need answers and I believe that the Commission must investigate. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (HU) Mr Alvaro, I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the Hungarian constitution previously in force specified 27 laws that could only be modified by a two-thirds majority, while the new constitution specifies only 26.
However, I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the provisions for the Hungarian constitutional court - I am not sure whether you have read the Hungarian constitution in its entirety - are almost identical to those that apply to the constitutional court in Germany.
I would like to hear your answer to this question. (DE) Madam President, Mr Weber, as you have just stated that it is only identical in certain sections, it is quite clear that there are also sections where it may be open to question whether the fact that the Hungarian constitution circumscribes the jurisdiction of the constitutional court in tax and budgetary issues is compatible with the principle of the separation of powers.
If you were now to tell me that the German constitutional court could not decide on tax issues, for example, following a judgment by the German Federal Court of Justice, or if budget law could not be examined by the German constitutional court for example, by way of a constitutional dispute between government institutions, such as a party in the German Bundestag, then I would agree with you.
What we are dealing with is human dignity - this is a principle found in the German constitution, as well as others - and the Hungarian constitution is no different in this regard.
Sustainability, the protection of future generations, the desire for a healthy natural environment and the protection of quality of life - all of these are principles that, if I am not mistaken, can be found in the constitutions of all Member States, and that have been upheld in many supreme court judgments.
I would like to reassure Mrs in 't Veld, Mrs Göncz and Mrs Benova that Hungary still respects fundamental rights, human rights and the values of the Union.
Hungarian laws and the constitution adopted in April comply with the laws and basic values of the European Union.
Fellow Members, the question of what is included in the constitution of a country and what is dealt with at a different legislative level by a certain Member State is something that is quite clearly a matter of national sovereignty.
In addition, as my colleagues have already pointed out, the new Hungarian constitution refers to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is a new constitutional element, and considers the minorities of Hungary as an integral part of the Hungarian political community.
It is simply different, and as a Hungarian, I would be grateful if you could respect this in the spirit of unity in diversity. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (SK) Madam President, today I received an invitation to the exhibition 'Bridges Between Nations', an event organised by your colleague.
Having heard from others that other Member States should put their own house in order and examine their constitutions, perhaps Mrs Gál could quote an article from the constitution of one of the Member States of the European Union that she would categorise as an example of an area where a state needs to 'put its own house in order'.
However, in this Parliament, it is a question, and in my case, a concern which relates to the EU legal system, and consequently an issue that affects the degree to which we share our common values, and to which we share how Europe has been built, by States and by the fundamental texts of the Member States and other national founding texts.
However, there are contradictions concerning non-discrimination, the respect for minorities, problems of pluralism, and concerning opposition, which appear to be challenged.
It has to be said that we are entitled to discuss this matter because Hungary is part of the European Union.
But Hungary is also entitled to have a constitution and certainly this is far better than the old constitution of 1949 brought in by the Communists.
It has to be said as well that this constitution was passed on 18 April with 262 votes for and 44 against and that is an expression of democracy.
People have also objected to granting citizenship to people outside of Hungary, but in Ireland, we have had passport facility for people who are officially living in Northern Ireland, which is in the United Kingdom.
Thus, in paragraph 4, there is room for possible extra-territorial impacts of this constitution.
I should therefore like to take the opportunity of this debate to question the Commission on the validation of the funding for this campaign by the PROGRESS programme. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (HU) Mrs Guillaume, I would like to ask you a question.
I therefore ask the Commissioner what action she intends to take, in view of the fact that the fundamental rights in the new Hungarian constitution are hardly compatible with those of the European Union and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (NL) Madam President, I am happy to see Commissioner Reding attending this debate on how best to defend European values ​​of democracy.
We expect better of our EU Presidency. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for taking the floor so many times, but I was personally involved in the drafting of this constitution, and I find it greatly disturbing to hear misapprehensions, whether deliberate, or unintentional.
This is exactly why I would like to ask Mrs Bozkurt the following, after she claimed that there was no consultation on this issue: Did you know that 917 000 Hungarian citizens returned the 12-question questionnaire through which Hungary and the Hungarian Government consulted with its citizens about the important issues in the constitution?
I would like to hear some answers from you about that. (HU) Madam President, Mrs Bozkurt, to answer your question, everyone received this letter in which they could express their opinions.
It is more than reassuring that in the new constitution, the Hungarian state takes responsibility for its citizens both within and outside its borders, does not allow state debt to run out of control, and, among other things, it declares parents' responsibility for their children. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to take the floor at the end of the debate, because sadly, I have to say that at the end of the day, I have not heard any specific criticisms from you.
However, now that I was given the floor, I would rather not criticise, but make a recommendation on behalf of 80 million people living with disabilities.
In the region that I come from, we have had a great many problems in recent decades because of nationalism.
European political correctness cannot bear the fact that there is a country in which conservatism is triumphing, that there is a country in Europe where national interests are being effectively protected, and that there is a country in Europe which is returning to real values.
It is clear from the letter of Mr Barroso and the statement of Mrs Reding that this is within national sovereignty.
We should not violate our own Treaty on European Union.
There are also some points in my own German constitution that I do not fully agree with, likewise the French constitution.
If someone does not like a particular element in a national constitution, this has nothing to do with this House, because this is a matter of national identity and jurisdiction.
Perhaps I would have done certain things differently, but it is Hungary's right to do things as it sees fit. (HU) Madam President, we have witnessed an unprecedented event here, in the European Parliament.
The European Commission has no intentions or right to interfere with the constitutional affairs of Member States.
The left wing simply has to accept that this decision cannot be changed either in Brussels, or in Strasbourg. (DE) Madam President, Mr Brok, I found your remarks somewhat irritating, which is why I asked to speak.
Naturally, the European Union has competences that enable it to establish the compatibility of national law with European law.
As you said yourself, anything that breaches the European Treaties can also be clarified in a court of law.
These include, for example, the Convention on Human Rights, as well as the Treaties of the European Union, and I believe that we should be able to debate this issue in this Chamber.
On behalf of President Barroso, I would like to underline once more that the Commission does not make political judgments on the fundamental constitutional and institutional choices that a Member State makes.
I made it very clear: this campaign is not in line with the Progress programme and it is not in line with the project proposal submitted to the Commission services by the Hungarian authorities.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank this House for the particular attention it has paid to my government's activities in the last semester.
Since the beginning of our Presidency, we have dedicated all our energy and have been tireless in our efforts in promoting the common European agenda.
Madam President, on a point of order - and I tried to make this point halfway through the debate, but you cut me off - I would suggest that you look back over this debate and see how you allocated blue card questions and catch-the-eye requests.
I allowed them to speak for at least 15 seconds and even a minute in some cases, and the balance between the political groups has been fully respected.
Written statements (Rule 149) The Hungarian constitution was adopted on 18 April using a process which has pushed democracy to its limits.
This is a case which must sound a warning bell for all Member States and governments, regardless of their political persuasion.
Furthermore, the Hungarian Government has shown its support for setting up an office for the Székely Region in Brussels, which is a major affront to Romanians and Romania's territorial integrity.
Different countries and different nationalities have been shaped by different experiences.
In case someone thinks otherwise, the club has corresponding rules on how to proceed.
We defend our point of view in a fair debate that is based on truth, but we do not wish to take part in a political witch hunt.
However, by approving a new constitution that states that the foetus must be protected from the moment of conception, Hungary, a Member State, has trampled on these values by allowing the right to abortion once more to be brought into question.
