ECB annual report for 2009 - Latest developments on international currency exchange rates (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr Balz, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the ECB annual report 2009, and the Commission statement on the latest developments on international currency exchange rates.
Ladies and gentlemen, my report today essentially concerns the performance of the European Central Bank in 2009 - in other words, during a period in which economic, financial and, increasingly, also political actions, were substantially dominated by the economic and financial crisis.
The crisis, which started off as a purely financial crisis, spread, and also affected the entire real economy in a second wave.
Although economic activity began to recover in the second half of 2009, the financial and economic crisis then threatened to evolve into a public debt crisis in a third wave in 2010.
In my view, this danger has not yet been averted.
In recent days, we have been reminded all too clearly by the case of Ireland that the problem of over-indebtedness in the Member States has by no means been resolved, and I therefore also agree with President Van Rompuy: the failure of the euro is out of the question.
In the past, insufficient coordination of economic policies within the monetary union allowed considerable economic imbalances to arise between the euro area countries and left the euro area without a predefined crisis management mechanism.
The euro area will have to resolve these imbalances if it is to prevent a new crisis.
The issue of the independence of the European Central Bank will also be a significant aspect of the new economic governance, particularly as regards the recently established European Systemic Risk Board.
I am absolutely convinced that the European Union and the euro area will find a way out of this crisis and could emerge from it even stronger than before.
In closing I would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their extremely pleasant and constructive cooperation on this report.
I welcome this even more since, this year, the European Parliament has demonstrated very convincingly its willingness and ability to assert the overriding European interest, especially with regard to the financial supervision package. (DE) I would like to start by giving you a brief overview of the monetary policy measures taken by the European Central Bank during the financial and economic crisis.
It started with a severe economic downturn worldwide following the outbreak of the financial crisis in autumn 2008.
In this environment of subdued inflationary pressures, we continued with our policy of lowering our key rates further.
To ensure that households and firms in the euro area would benefit from these most favourable financing conditions, in 2009 we also continued with - and even extended - our enhanced credit support to euro area banks.
In 2009, we also extended the maturity of our longer-term refinancing operation to one year.
Let me emphasise that all our action was fully in line with our mandate to deliver price stability in the medium term for the euro area as a whole.
That we have been able to credibly deliver on our mandate is reflected in a favourable inflation outlook and well-anchored inflation expectations in the euro area.
To ensure that this programme does not impact on our monetary policy stance, we re-absorb all the liquidity injected.
Some of the non-standard measures initiated in 2009 and early 2010 have already been phased out in view of improvements in conditions in some financial markets and taking the ongoing recovery of the euro area economy into account.
Indeed, euro area average inflation over the past almost 12 years stands at 1.97%.
This fully reflects our definition of price stability, namely, our aim to keep annual inflation rates in the euro area below 2% and close to 2% in the medium term.
In this sense, the euro system over the past 12 years has operated as an anchor of stability and confidence and has done so during the most recent times, despite the challenging environment created by the global financial crisis.
Thirdly, this success is grounded, we trust, in the full independence of the ECB from political influence, in its primary mandate to maintain price stability and in its transparent communication, particularly concerning the definition of price stability.
As regards the external dimension of the euro, let me only say that our currency has established itself internationally.
The ECB used to say that this is no time for complacency.
All relevant authorities as well as the private sector must assume fully their responsibilities, and this is true for executive branches, central banks, regulators, supervisors, the private sector and the financial industry.
In particular, the current crisis has clearly demonstrated that implementing ambitious reforms in economic governance is in the interest both of the euro area countries and of the euro area as a whole.
The proposals put forward by President Van Rompuy on the reform of the EU's economic governance and approved by the European Council meeting of October 2010 represent an improvement to the current surveillance framework at EU level and seem broadly appropriate for the EU countries not participating in monetary union.
However, as regards the specific requirements of the euro area, in our opinion, they fall short of what we view as necessary to ensure the best possible functioning of the single-currency economy.
I am convinced that, over the coming months, the European Parliament will help Europe make the necessary quantum leap in economic governance a reality.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this and to express again my conviction that the influence of Parliament will be decisive in the economic governance debate.
We need to get all these reforms right, so as to ensure that Europe as a whole and the euro area can meet future challenges with even greater capacity and conviction. 2011 will be also the first year of the existence of the European Systemic Risk Board.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me first thank the rapporteur, Burkhard Balz, for the solid and comprehensive report on the ECB annual report 2009.
I want to use this opportunity to thank Jean-Claude Trichet for an excellent cooperation and especially for his crucial role during these turbulent times.
The ECB has, both through its monitoring stance and its non-standard measures, been instrumental in the fire-fighting to overcome the crisis and thus in laying the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
Let me now turn to the second part of the debate, which is the latest developments in the international exchange rates.
It is correct that volatility in foreign exchange markets has increased in recent weeks, with significant shifts in the value of major bilateral exchange rates.
The euro appreciated against the dollar since June this year due to stronger data for the euro area economy and due to further expansion of the US monetary policy.
Compared to the beginning of the year, the euro depreciation in real effective terms amounts to around 7%.
In the context of a slow recovery in advanced economies and large capital flows to emerging economies, many countries have aimed at weakening their currency or at least resorting to competitive non-appreciation.
It is clear that exchange rate flexibility must play a role in the necessary rebalancing so that exchange rates reflect economic fundamentals, as was underlined by President Trichet.
The work that has been carried out in terms of supervision, organisation and regulation, to which you have referred, Mr President, is excellent.
Every day, the headlines in the press are of increasingly grim solutions and unlikely situations, and I can tell you that, on Friday, when I was out in the field, as we say in politics, I saw nearly 100 to 150 people.
The fear felt by our fellow citizens is out of sync with what is being done, and done well, by the European Central Bank.
Secondly, I would like to point out that there are considerable macro-economic disparities between the economies in the euro area, highlighting the need for closer harmonisation between economic and monetary policies.
The reckless behaviour of financial operators helped trigger the economic and financial crisis.
This is why an EU-level economic governance model is required which will combine fiscal consolidation with the creation of new jobs.
In his report, he stresses the innovations afforded by the Treaty of Lisbon, and I really want to thank you, Mr Trichet, for having once again this evening reminded those of us who seem to be unaware of the fact - including, incidentally, those who signed it and had it ratified - that the Treaty of Lisbon includes a major innovation: we are going to be able to debate publicly, in this Chamber, the reform of the Stability Pact.
I agree entirely with what Mr Gauzès said; when one goes out into the field, one almost wonders whether the proposals put forward by the Commission in September are completely relevant, whether account ought not to be taken of the crisis that is currently occurring in order to allow for as much progress as possible to be made.
Instead, we need effective coordination of economic policy that takes into account not just public debt but also private debt, and that deals with economic imbalances not just in deficit countries but also in countries making a surplus.
I would also like to ask Mr Trichet to comment on two matters in the report: the issue of transparency, as mentioned in paragraph 21, and the issue of the security accepted, as mentioned in paragraph 39.
However, at a time when the euro is facing new crises every day and it is generally accepted that new forms of governance and new rules are required for survival, it is hard for the ECB to weigh in on outside global issues.
In the meantime, the financial sector is already eyeing up Portugal for capitulation as its interest rates continue to rise.
The European Central Bank must share the responsibility for this drama.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, I read the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' report on the European Central Bank's annual report with great interest.
The report states that 'these imbalances pose considerable difficulties for a suitable monetary policy within the eurozone' and reiterates that 'the financial crisis in some countries within the euro area is a serious matter for the area as a whole', reflecting this 'dysfunction of the euro area'.
The knee-jerk reaction has been to increase economic governance, but it is limitations of enforced commonality that have led particular Member States into financial crisis, combined with extraneous reasons as yet beyond our control.
One argument is that you cannot have a single currency without further homogenisation to iron out differences between Member States and levels of wealth.
Nevertheless, you have stated that the longer-term financing measures have been extended once again, Mr Trichet.
There is just something that I am concerned about, and that is that our citizens are simply not being told what this liquidity aid is actually being used for, and the lack of transparency as regards the way that the Irish are being forced - in many people's eyes - under this umbrella.
The Leman Brothers solution cannot always be the answer.
Since the European Parliament is the primary institution through which the European Central Bank is accountable to European citizens, I am very pleased about President Trichet's participation in this plenary, and also that he regularly engages in monetary discussion with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
We cannot ignore the fact that the Member States' economic and financial problems still affect the euro in all its aspects.
I trust that the issues regarding the ECB's independence and its responsibility for decision making will be resolved in a reassuring manner, and that this, along with the reform programme aimed at creating a successful economic union, will help strengthen the European Union and the euro area within it.
Wall Street and City survivors are speculating on the currency markets and short selling CDSs that they do not even have.
The support given to Ireland is, above all, a bail-out of British and German banks that would suffer deeply if Irish banks were to go under.
Since the start of the year, China has no longer been borrowing in dollars, but has been selling them.
Mr Van Rompuy spoke about the euro struggling to survive.
In spite of real problems, to which Europe is responding with continual shilly-shallying, it should be pointed out that, at world level, the 27 are the biggest exporters of goods, the biggest importers of goods, and the biggest exporters of services.
Of course we have to act with caution, but these measures are necessary to sanitise public finance in the long term and are also a sign of solidarity between countries in the eurozone.
I think we should talk not only about the expenditure side but also about the revenue side, because there too, reforms - whether of the labour market, pensions or social security - are necessary and long overdue. (NL) Madam President, the European Central Bank has not known a year as eventful as 2009 since the euro was introduced.
The Council should take the same approach in adapting the Stability and Growth Pact.
The majority of this House should also apply that principle to the European budget.
Perhaps, Mr President, in your daily dealings involving billions of euro, it has escaped your attention that the amount of money you receive each month for performing your role is enough to cover the monthly living expenses of almost 100 families in my country.
I know that the situation in Europe is very complex, but Slovakia is definitely not a country that you are in any position to criticise. (PT) Madam President, the intervention in Ireland ultimately proves that the EU should have come up with a common solution for European banks, particularly the large banks, almost before dealing with any other matter.
The European Central Bank (ECB) has acted as an anchor in this situation, filling some of the gaps, particularly in terms of the vulnerability of sovereign debt.
Firstly, unfortunately we have had to turn to the support from the ECB and the IMF in the short term.
Back in my country, which does not belong to the euro area, there is currently a discussion taking place along these lines: 'This demonstrates precisely what we said when voting against the euro in 2001.
The Irish Government horribly mismanaged our country, and it is a sad day for the Irish people that we are mentioned in this Chamber in these particular circumstances.
Secondly, there is a question for the ECB to answer about what its mandate is.
It is regrettable, but it is necessary that we have a general election. (FI) Madam President, Robert Schuman, founder of the EU, said that the European Union would develop through a series of crises, and that development may now well be rapid, because there are quite a lot of crises around.
This poses an enormous challenge to the political system in the European Union and the Member States.
We need to help Ireland, not punish it. (DE) Madam President, Mr Trichet, we all know that the main task of the European Central Bank is to ensure monetary stability and that you can best achieve this aim by being politically independent.
At the same time, we are trying to build a longerterm European architecture that will actually strengthen economic union and reinforce monetary union, which is already sturdy at the moment, by means of robust and genuine economic union, which, in other words, means the implementation of the original objective for economic and monetary union.
It is now very important that we all keep a cool head and try and support Ireland while it is in difficulties.
All the Member States would have been in a much more difficult situation without the European Union and its protective shield.
I want to conclude by saying that Mrs Goulard made a very important point when she referred to the original objective of those who created the Economic and Monetary Union: to have a very strong political dimension, in fact, a political union.
Member of the Commission. - (in response to Mr De Rossa, who had spoken with the microphone off.) Madam President, as you well know, I am ready to meet with the Irish MEPs to discuss issues related to Ireland, but - no matter how important and difficult the situation in Ireland is at the moment - this debate is about the ECB and Parliament's report on the ECB.
First of all, I would like to restate: we are responsible for the 'M' of EMU, the monetary union.
This is our mandate.
We are independent to deliver price stability to 330 million fellow citizens.
As I explained a moment ago, we have delivered price stability in line with our definition, which was in the continuity of the best definition in the world, and let me say that our definition of price stability now appears to be the global benchmark.
We have our ideas; we have our recommendations; we have our diagnosis and analysis and I will come back to that of course.
They also have problems of the first magnitude and I would like us not to transform what is a legitimate reflection on how to run major advanced economies better into a criticism of the euro which, as I said, has delivered exactly in line with what was expected.
Again, fundamentally, our diagnosis is that what was abnormal in the functioning of Europe was that we had poor governance, poor governance of the economic union.
I can say, sadly, that this is not surprising because the Stability and Growth Pact has been criticised wrongly by some since the very beginning.
Sadly, I have to say that this was the major countries inside the euro area and that the small and medium-sized countries were resisting this tendency.
This was in 2004 and 2005.
Taking into account what we feel, taking into account what we see, in the functioning of Europe as a whole, the 27 and the 16 (and tomorrow 17), we considered that the first proposal of the Commission was too weak in terms of automaticity and in terms of rigour of the governance, both for the fiscal surveillance and for the competitiveness indicators, the imbalances.
Let me only say that as regards our own communication, we are giving the clear definition of price stability which permits everybody to judge what we are doing permanently in real time.
I would say it is the same for us in terms of interaction with the governments, but we are fiercely independent and the fact that we have had to embark on a number of non-standard measures, as I have explained, was to allow us to transmit our monetary policy impulses as well as possible in circumstances where markets were not functioning correctly and therefore, the decisions that we were taking on interest rates were not transmitted correctly to the economy as a whole.
This is the essence of the non-standard measures, to help restore a more normal functioning of the monetary policy transmission channels and we very clearly made the distinction - I repeated that in a recent colloquy we had in which Ben Bernanke participated - between the standard measures that are really what counts in terms of monetary policy stance, and the non-standard measures designed to help the transmission of monetary policy.
The euro is the currency that has maintained its internal and external stability remarkably well.
Moreover, I have not yet said that it is more remarkable than anything a central bank has ever done, within the founding countries of the euro, over the last 50 years - I saved that for last, if I may say so.
The first is the independence of the European Central Bank.
The European Central Bank is the guardian of the euro.
However, I only want to implement Basel III promptly if everyone at G20 level implements it simultaneously.
In the current situation, a delay of one or two years may be acceptable.
in writing. - I welcome and support this report.
The sad truth is that these businesses have suffered greatly in the past two years.
The ECB's policy of pumping in billions of euro to help save indebted banks was the right thing to do, but many banks have become over-reliant on the ECB's liquidity.
