President Van Rompuy would like to present to this House his points of view on other issues, on institutional issues, at the beginning of his term of office.
President of the European Council. - Mr President, I am delighted to have this opportunity to take part in a debate with you not only to report on the informal meeting of the Heads of State or Government of two weeks ago - it was, after all, an informal meeting, with no formal conclusions to report - but also to take this opportunity to meet with you early in my mandate.
Had I waited until the first formal opportunity to report on a European Council taking place at the end of March, I would not have come before this Parliament before the end of April, some five months after my designation as President of the European Council.
Let me therefore take this opportunity to lay out how I see my role and function.
Our partners in third countries were bemused at having to meet a different Head of Government every time they had a summit with the European Union.
By creating a full-time post dedicated to the running of the European Council and its follow-up, including external representation, the European Council now has a better chance to play its role within the European institutional system.
Some commentators have seen a great deal more in this role; others have seen less.
On the one hand, some consider the Presidency of the European Council to be a sort of président in the manner of an executive Head of State, as in, for instance, France.
The incumbent must express the views of the collective Heads of State or Government.
The Commission President has an intimate day-to-day contact with the European Parliament, not least working on those legislative and budgetary proposals.
My task is, rather, to ensure that the Heads of State or Government can collectively agree on an overall strategy for the European Union, both as regards its internal development and in terms of its external relations.
I have a weekly meeting with President Barroso.
We did, however, have a useful informal gathering of Heads of State or Government earlier this month at the Bibliothèque Solvay, just a few hundred metres from here.
My aim with this informal Council was mainly to prepare our future deliberations on the issue of how to improve Europe's economic performance as we exit the immediate economic crisis.
At the Solvay meeting, all members of the European Council agreed that we need better, more focused economic coordination in the Union, both for major economic policy - certainly in the euro area - and for micro-economic policy.
These objectives should be quantifiable and divisible in national set objectives; it makes no sense to have scoreboards on, say, 65 different sets of data.
Moreover, all members of the European Council are willing to take more responsibility in a common European strategy for growth and jobs.
Such personal involvement is indispensable; we need to go from paper recommendations to real-life commitment.
Whether you want to call it better coordination, better governance, or even a gouvernement économique, the key is the common commitment to success.
A discussion on how Europe should respond strategically to the Copenhagen conference on climate change will be pursued at the next European Council.
I took it upon myself to ensure that this was handled in the European Union's institutional framework and not outside it, and that the agreement reached met with the approval of all 27 Heads of State or Government as well as the President of the Commission and the President of the European Central Bank.
I think that all European institutions can, and must, work together for those goals. (Applause) President of the Commission. - Mr President, let me first of all congratulate President Van Rompuy on what was a very good informal European Council for the first time under his chairmanship.
After reaching agreement among all of us on an important statement on Greece, we discussed the Europe 2020 strategy - a strategy for sustainable growth and employment.
Before the crisis, the European economy was making progress: we saw 18 million new jobs and a more dynamic business environment.
However, these gains have been wiped out by the financial crisis and its impact on many of our areas of activity: a 4% fall in GDP in a single year, unemployment shooting up to 10%, a huge hit to our prosperity, a real threat to our societies.
At the same time, the task is getting tougher: we have an ageing population, a growing productivity gap with our competitors, and failings in education and research.
However, we also have many strengths: we have the world's biggest market economy; we have the single market; we have the euro area.
We need the Member States; we need the European institutions; we need stakeholders and society at large; and we need specifically the active involvement and support of this Parliament, the European Parliament, for shaping this strategy and for communicating it to the people.
Second, to keep in force our European model of society, we need to deliver more jobs.
Our social market economy must be hardwired to seize the opportunities of the future.
With this, I mean a competitive economy, deepening the internal market, creating better conditions for investment - especially for SMEs - a European economy able to hold its own in a globalised market place.
Firstly, the strategy must be comprehensive.
The European approach is necessary, not to bring back powers in Brussels - this is not our intention at all - but to help the indispensable reforms in our societies so that they can bring more prosperity, more well-being to our citizens.
The Lisbon Treaty gives us these instruments and we will use them.
In this European Council, I saw awareness of this problem.
I sincerely hope that this time, narrow national interests will not again resist the need for closer coordination and an effective system of European governance.
Mr Van Rompuy, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) expects a lot of you.
Now I would like to come to the substance of the debates of 11 February, which is, of course, the 2020 strategy, but it is also the euro and economic and budgetary policy, since speculation against the Greek debt and the euro were certainly unexpected guests in the Solvay library.
A question for you there, President Van Rompuy.
However, if they presented a united front to the IMF, the euro area countries would represent 23% of the votes, and all the countries of the European Union, still united, would represent 32% of the votes, that is to say, twice as many as the United States.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, since the start of the economic and social crisis, over seven million people have joined the unemployment lines in Europe.
By the end of this year, it is quite likely that over 25 million people will be unemployed.
The good health of our economies and public finances, which we have striven so hard to put in order since the early 1990s, has been ruined in less than two years.
Economic growth remains extremely weak, and many people have lost faith in the idea of an early recovery.
Fears for the future trouble our societies, inequalities of all kinds have widened and some of our Member States are in desperate need of EU-wide solidarity and protection, having become the targets of ruthless and uncontrolled speculation.
I cannot go back to my region tomorrow and tell my people that they do not need to worry, that we have a plan for 2020.
There are other ways to pull Europe out of the crisis: putting people at the heart of our policy agenda and especially those who have been most hit by the crisis.
I would urge President Van Rompuy and President Barroso to reconsider the nature of the so-called exit strategy.
We believe this approach should involve an 'entry strategy' into the labour market, which should form an integral part of the 2020 strategy and constitute its roadmap for the years up to 2015.
It should combine the macro-economic policy agenda with structural policies in the economic, social and environmental fields to aim at the creation of at least five million net new jobs by 2015, particularly in the green economy.
The European Council should state this intention clearly at the March summit as a key objective of the new strategy.
Proper economic policy coordination reaching well beyond the policing role of the stability pact should ensure that gradual fiscal consolidation in the different Member States is combined with the preservation of key public spending in growth areas and key social policies.
We can talk about 2020, but we have a more urgent problem today: the eurozone and Greece.
Greece says that it has given all the information to the European Union and European institutions.
At the same time, the European Commission and Eurostat are saying that they did not receive all the necessary information.
At the same time the investment banks - Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank - are minimising what they have done in the Greece case.
I therefore think it is the task of this Parliament to organise hearings with the relevant committee as quickly as possible, so that we can hear all the parties concerned on this matter and find out exactly what is happening in the case of Greece.
We cannot talk about remedies, about solutions, about reforms in the European Union if, first of all, we do not know what really happened in the case of Greece in 2008 and 2009 and before that, and I think it is absolutely necessary that the different parties are heard by this Parliament.
I think there is only one good solution to that.
I think it is also the task of this Parliament to ask the Commission and the Council to reflect on that possibility and to go beyond the national interests of the current Member States of the European Union to examine this possibility.
Thirdly, I think the most important part of this debate is, naturally, what to do about 2020.
The Lisbon Strategy was too weak; the gap between the German economy and the Greek economy widened over the last 10 years: it became bigger, not smaller, after the Lisbon Strategy.
We need a bolder instrument inside the European Union.
This bolder instrument is economic governance inside the European Union.
Mr Barroso, I hope that in a few days' time, at the beginning of March - I think it is 3 March - you come forward with a paper on this.
What we ask from you is to take the lead on that, on this economic policy and on this economic governance, and to come forward, together with Olli Rehn, with a bold proposal to have economic governance inside the European Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Maybe it will be necessary in the near future to bale out Britain, because I have seen that the fiscal deficit of Britain is even higher than the fiscal deficit of Greece. (Applause) The fiscal deficit is, if I am not mistaken, 12.9% of GDP for the moment.
So I think what is most important for the moment is that we have a credible strategy towards the eurozone, and I am very sure - maybe not tomorrow but the day after tomorrow - there will come a time when Britain is a member of the eurozone.
If we do not want anti-European developments, we need to discuss who in Brussels is responsible for allowing these things to be concealed in Greece for so many years - probably even during the entire preparatory period for the monetary union.
Mr Barroso, I believe that you have a crucial share of the responsibility in this regard.
If I am to believe the Greeks with whom I have spoken, 25% of Greek workers are employed in the public sector, and it is not even a good public sector.
I would just like to say one sentence about the EU 2020 strategy.
Mr Barroso, you made absolutely no mention of the failures of the Lisbon Strategy.
I believe that the failure to evaluate the Lisbon Strategy does not bode at all well for the success or possible success of the new strategy.
Our growth level was less, our unemployment higher, our relative trading position was in decline and our share of global output falling.
Europe 2020 must not go the same way.
It is in the interests of our citizens that the 2020 programme succeeds in stimulating the creation of good jobs and rising living standards, and it is in the interests of the free world that the 2020 programme points the way to a stronger economic future for all our citizens.
There are 27 governments in the European Union trying - each in its own way - to rescue their own banks and large-scale industries.
The banks are now using the state rescue packages to speculate against the national budgets.
The banks have already made more progress than the states.
Hypo Real Estate and Commerzbank, which, in Germany, were rescued using billions of euros of taxpayers' money, are right at the forefront when it comes to the business of excessively expensive government bonds in Greece.
We need harmonisation of tax types within the Union, but above all, we need genuine European regulation and control of the financial markets and a real European economic and finance policy, coordinated on the basis of solidarity, with binding social and environmental targets.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - President of Europe - this long-awaited day.
I had never heard of you; nobody in Europe had ever heard of you.
It is unacceptable for a group chair to call the President of the European Council a 'damp rag' in this Parliament, rather than offering political criticism. (Applause) Mr President, I would expect you to respond to that with a call to order.
To Mr Daul, I would like to say that it is not a question of the United Kingdom leaving the EU.
After the Irish people voted 'no' in a referendum, you said that, by supporting the 'no' vote, our group had opened the door to fascism; you said that we had behaved as a group in the Parliament like Hitler and the Nazis in the Reichstag.
We must keep order and all the regulations of our Parliament. (NL) First of all, allow me to state calmly the fact that we are conducting this debate in this Chamber, in Brussels, in Belgium.
The solution is national responsibility and the obligation of individual Member States to cut their coats according to their cloth. (NL) President Buzek, President Barroso and, of course, also President Van Rompuy, we are delighted to have you here with us today.
It is important that you are here in connection with the forthcoming 2020 strategy, because it is crucial for re-establishing Europe's role in the world.
Mr President, and here I address President Barroso as well, you know what our priorities are.
This means that our foremost task should be to get small and medium-sized enterprises, as the powerhouse behind our job creation, back on their feet again.
We are not talking about just our trade and services here, but also about our European industry, which we have to make competitive again on the world stage.
We are also talking about our agricultural sector and high-quality food production, which are also competitive on the world stage.
That means that we need SMEs with knowledge, innovation and sustainable technology at their core.
Therefore, my question to you is: what specific objectives are you going to bring in to force the Member States, ultimately, to show real commitment to this new strategy, while remaining within the limits of the Treaty of Lisbon when it comes to subsidiarity? (SV) Mr President, according to the Commission's own figures, 80 million EU citizens are currently living below the poverty line.
In this context, it is important to realise that social cohesion and sustainable development are essential for economic growth.
The first society to get away from our dependence on fossil fuels, for example, will take the lead in the creation of new green jobs.
All too often we forget that our strategies for growth are put in place for the benefit of our citizens and the future of our children.
In order to ensure legitimacy and openness, the Commission and the Council will therefore be wise to include Parliament in the ongoing work of the 2020 strategy.
Just as openness and transparency are essential for the creation of a citizen's Europe, they are also key instruments in avoiding crises in public finances such as those currently hitting countries across the Union.
Everyone is pointing their fingers at Greece but there are also other Member States that have avoided benchmarking, deceived Europe about their deficits and cheated with their financial statistics.
Next, an ambitious goal concerning the reduction in inequalities: for example, reducing the level of poverty in Europe by 50% by 2020; that certainly would not be a maximum to achieve.
However, we will not achieve these results without two absolutely vital ingredients.
Without strong fiscal convergence, we will be unable to bring stability back to our public finances and build our tax system on a sustainable basis.
I would seek for us to prioritise the completion of the single market for services and goods and to take an ambitious approach in creating a single market for innovative research.
There should be wide encouragement of research and development both in universities and in private enterprises in Europe so that we can be at the forefront of new sustainable industry and technologies.
An EU 2020 strategy focused on innovation in areas of existing expertise... (The President cut off the speaker) (EL) Mr President, huge unemployment rallies are being held in Greece today by workers in the private and public sectors.
Anger has spilled on to the streets and the workers are indignant in the face of the harsh measures being taken by the Greek Government at the insistence of the European Union, especially the recent European Council at which, instead of taking measures for the benefit of the weak economies, instead of taking measures to put an end to speculation and create an umbrella of economic and social solidarity, instead of accepting that the Stability Pact does not exist and that bringing it back will deepen the recession and instead of accepting that the Treaty of Lisbon has failed resoundingly, the Council is preparing the 2020 European Commission as an expansion and continuation of the treaty.
The people of Greece and the people of Europe will shortly deal with you as the people of Argentina dealt with the International Monetary Fund. (LT) It is symbolic that 20 years after the fall of the wall that divided Europe, today we are talking about Europe 2020.
I believe that while preparing a new strategy, we must assess the reasons we failed to achieve the goals outlined in the Lisbon Strategy.
It was not courageous enough in connection with the implementation, in demanding reforms or in executing its own strategy.
These regions do not ask whether Europeans agree amongst themselves or whether they are implementing new redistribution programmes.
However, we need this strategy in order to be able to keep up with the rest of the world.
As a collegial body, the Commission is called on not to represent the interests of individual commissioners, but to take a leading role in Europe.
However, the problem our continent has today is that it is emerging from a serious crisis, the characteristics of that being that we have extremely weak, or even negative, growth globally.
This therefore requires political awareness and, for me, that has two goals.
Today, Europe is confronted with this dilemma: the Member States have significant deficits and the more significant their deficits, the less they will throw in Europe's common pot.
While reading your contribution to the informal Council, while hearing you talk today quite rightly of the number of poor in the European Union and of the need to develop financial regulation, I said to myself, Mr Barroso, that it is a pity that you were not a proper President of the Commission over the last few years!
If you tackle this, you will have the support of this Parliament, and I believe that, as far as the 2020 strategy is concerned, we must not let ourselves be misled by words.
If words mean anything, we must, above all, think medium term, think global and think beyond nationalism.
That is what we need to see for the Europe 2020 agenda.
The European Union, governments and the Commission are trying to terrorise workers throughout the European Union in a bid to make them bow down before the storm of the anti-grassroots measures.
However, in this war, the workers are responding with mass strikes, demonstrations and rallies, about which I have heard you say nothing, Mr Barroso, with demonstrations and strikes being organised by the class-conscious trade unions in numerous countries of the European Union.
There is only one answer which the workers can give to the front being put up by the parties of capital, to the European one-way street, to the compromised trade union leaders, to the widespread attack by the government on wages and pensions: a development in their interests. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a formal show of solidarity with Greece, but in reality, the aim was simply to impose a rigid austerity policy on the Member States of the European Union.
These are imperial designs of the architects of the European Union, and they also feature in a project that is circulating in the corridors of the Commission, which calls for 80% of the EU Member States' debt to become European Union debt.
The campaign for an economic superstate launched in recent days is liable to turn not only Greece but all the 27 Member States of the European Union into protectorates. (DE) Madam President, the EU has now adopted a post-Lisbon Strategy in which it has been careful not to commit itself to any testable goals at all.
A time of crisis, in which more and more people are becoming unemployed or having to eke out a living from part-time work or 'one-euro jobs', is not the time for the EU to give new impetus to the existing merciless competition on the labour market.
It must not immediately withdraw financial aid from structurally weak regions because no reforms have been carried out - not even as a threat.
The EU has a chance now to gain status as a bulwark against globalisation and this will probably be its only chance. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Council, you may not be well known, as Mr Farage maintains, but I know that your ideals are deeply rooted in European tradition and culture, and for that I admire and respect you.
In view of the informal Council meeting that was held on 11 February, I would like to ask what commitment the Council, the Commission and all the European institutions want to make in order to strengthen the commitment to the social pact that was mentioned in the speech by the rotating President of the Union for the next six months, the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero?
I am pleased that you said today that you want to meet almost on a monthly basis, because it is your job to bring the Heads of State or Government and the Member States back to Europe.
The Lisbon Strategy itself was not wrong, but the methods were wrong and the political will was lacking for the objectives to be implemented in the Member States.
It must be your job to coordinate the Member States in areas where the powers of the European Commission and the Union are inadequate.
The first test for all of us will be the 2011 budget, which will already have to be based on the Europe 2020 strategy.
We need more coordination in budgetary policy, fiscal policy, economic policy, research policy and education policy, because we cannot improve our competitiveness with economic goals alone.
Mr Barroso, we need a study of the effects of all of the Commission's measures on the real economy, not just on the banking sector.
We also need a joint package that includes coordination, the excessive deficit procedure, the exit strategy and Europe 2020, so that these do not contradict each other. (ES) President Van Rompuy, President Barroso, I really like the sound of what I have heard today.
The lesson we can learn from the past is that we have experienced considerable economic growth, but on the basis of speculation, which has not taken into account justice, fairness, the environment, the future or future generations.
Reforms also need to be made in the countries that have excessive surpluses.
Mr Van Rompuy, you must understand that nothing can be done without the citizens and their representatives, just as our Parliament must understand that nothing can be done without the Member States and hence, the Heads of State or Government.
Mr Van Rompuy, the European Union walks on two legs.
Moreover, you should not be in the passenger seat, but in the driving seat, and the future of the European Union will depend on your ability to steer the Member States towards a political Union.
The crisis gives us some specific pointers with regard to development and full employment, if we want to incorporate - as I believe is necessary - this objective in our action.
Those are the main shortcomings of Lisbon I.
Lastly, we need to reshape and relaunch social dialogue as a force for cohesion and for curbing the dangers of long-term unemployment with which we have to come to terms. (ES) Madam President, President Van Rompuy, President Barroso - who is not here, but whom I am also addressing - the truth is that it has been very good to see you together and, in my opinion, this is because we have seen that there is a move towards and a focus on what should be the foundations of the common strategy in the next ten years and, in my view, this is extremely important.
You do, of course, have my full support for making this possible. (DE) Madam President, President of the European Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly address two points.
Firstly, do we already have a Europe 2020 strategy that promises success?
It is absolutely true that now is the time to determine how the Presidency of the European Council will operate.
If it is addressed to EU leaders, then what has been done until now is adequate and the tight schedule is a good thing.
However, if we think it is addressed to the citizens of the EU, whom we want to win over to our side, whom we want to work with and not against in shaping a stronger, more competitive Union that delivers more benefits to citizens than it does now, then we must proceed in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon and honestly involve the European Parliament and, what is more, national parliaments as well.
As for the substantive comment, the most important goal must be job creation.
We know very little about that at this point.
Secondly, the new strategy is to serve the interests of all regions, not only those of certain companies or countries.
That is what will lend credibility to the whole thing. (EL) Madam President, this is a very interesting debate being held here today on the strategy for 2020, but we all know full well that the informal European Council on 11 February was dominated by the so-called Greek question.
We also know that the informal summit culminated in a statement by the Heads of State or Government giving political support to Greece, expressing a readiness to take action to stabilise the euro and pointing out that Greece has not requested any financial support from the European Union.
Moreover - I cannot see the President of the European Commission here; I should like to express my perplexity as to why explanations were only requested from the Greek authorities and from Greece about a practice which was applied to saturation point by numerous Member States in the euro area over the ten years from 1998 to 2008, as reported in numerous articles in the foreign press recently.
We all know that, through Greece, speculators are targeting the euro area and the euro.
So let us take all the measures needed to protect the euro area and the euro. (Applause) (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must express my sincere regret, and that of the entire Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which I have the honour of chairing, that no reference whatsoever has been made to the agri-food sector in the 2020 strategy.
It is absurd that the Commission's proposed strategy for the next 10 years does not include the central issue of the challenge relating to food security, growth and job retention in rural areas.
I am therefore concerned about this very serious omission, which I hope Parliament will be able to put right. (FI) Madam President, this is the year of the tiger, and China is an economic tiger.
My other question is this: what carrots and sticks are we to employ to enable the EU 2020 strategy to be more successful than the Lisbon tragedy, since the Member States could not care less about it? (RO) Madam President, President in Office of the Council, I am pleased that you are here with us.
I do not understand why the Council is attempting to make a decision in such haste, without any serious consultation with the European Parliament.
We need the 2020 strategy as the Lisbon Strategy has not proved to be effective.
The main social problems in Europe are the increased ageing of the population and the lack of high qualifications for workers.
In these circumstances, allocating less than 2% of GDP to research, development and innovation is a first mistake which needs to be quickly rectified.
As an important step towards making strategy 2020 a success, I would therefore like to speak in particular about how essential it is for the various EU institutions to stop competing against each other and for us to cooperate together in earnest on the instruments without which it will be impossible to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020.
It is, therefore, very important for national egoisms to be genuinely transformed into a sense of national responsibility and also a sense of responsibility at the European level, because unless we address the issue of harmonising social policy and harmonising tax policy as soon as possible, it will not be possible to fulfil the objectives of economic policy or of our common European economy which will turn us into a genuinely competitive region in a globalised world.
Madam President, I am most grateful to President Van Rompuy for describing his job spec, but I still do not quite understand why he is declining to answer my parliamentary question.
Can I also apologise to President Van Rompuy for the disgraceful performance of Nigel Farage.
Moreover, our country has never asked for financial support.
Europe's citizens are waiting on immediate solutions to the current fundamental challenges: demographic changes and climate change, as well as the economic and financial crisis.
The European Union must invest, as a priority, in creating and preserving jobs in education, health care, agriculture and transport and energy infrastructures.
The European Union needs a sustainable energy strategy and a modern, safe and efficient transport infrastructure.
I can assure you that the Commission will be very bold; the EU 2020 will put citizens, employment and reduction of poverty at its core and centre.
But we need to do more; we need to get local and regional support for this strategy and, most importantly, we need to get the people behind it.
In the EU 2020 strategy, we would like to introduce a three-interlocking-pillar system based on a smart, greener and inclusive economy and we would like to build upon these pillars flexible initiatives which would be aimed at the bottlenecks, at the problems which are slowing the European economy, which are blocking it from using its full potential.
We would like to focus more on education and training, so that the labour force in Europe will maintain the competitive edge which Europe deserves.
Let me be very clear; we have the tools to safeguard financial stability in the euro area if needed; this involves, in particular, the euro area Members, the Commission and the European Central Bank and we stand ready to put in place a European framework for coordinating the action.
But each stage in this process must be allowed to take its course, and it is now for Greece to press on with the reforms and to put the necessary measures in place.
I believe that we are ready to take bold action, be it on the EU 2020 strategy or on the situation in Greece.
We had a debate just recently, on 11 February, we will have a spring Council at the end of March, and we will finalise the 2020 strategy, or the strategy for employment and economic growth, at the end of June.
The first period is the period that we are still in now, in other words, the financial crisis and all its consequences.
We have taken measures to save the financial institutions, not because we particularly like them as such, but because, without them, there is no economy.
It is the first time that the big powers, new and old, have come together to combat the crisis, in an imperfect way, but we will continue to work along these lines.
We have to find a balance between abandoning the budgetary stimuli too quickly and returning, in the medium term, to budgetary equilibrium, which is absolutely necessary to fund our pension system, our social security system and our health care system.
It requires a step-by-step approach, whereby we first reach a stage of 3% and then, in the medium term, budgetary equilibrium.
As far as the Lisbon Strategy is concerned, we know its handicaps, but we must not forget either that the financial and economic crisis has completely disrupted the implementation of the Lisbon agenda.
There have, of course, been omissions; I am not going to list them here, they are well known.
I will say this, however: we need some major reforms, or important reforms, and these important reforms, at European level and nationally, will demand budgetary choices.
This is because, if we say that we need to do more research and development, for example, then we must make provision for that in the national budgets and in the European Union's financial perspective.
I do not say that I have heard it here, but outside this House, at European level, people are demanding hard measures, major reforms, hard reforms, and when people go back to their countries, I see few results of all that.
As for the economic strategy, it is all very well for some to say that we need more constraints.
Take a close look at Article 121 so that you are fully aware of this.
Political commitment at both European and national level is therefore crucial, and without this political commitment, nothing will be done.
One final word about Greece.
On 11 February, it told us that if the current measures are not enough to achieve a reduction in the deficit of 4% of GDP in 2010, it would take additional measures.
However, we must also learn all the lessons from the experience of Greece and others.
As many of you have said, this is not just the responsibility of one or two people; all the European institutions and all the Member States must assume collective responsibility.
Otherwise, we will not save our social model; otherwise, we will lose our position in the world.
We have followed the debates on this topic and seen that attention has been focused on the measures for exiting the crisis and reviving economic growth financially.
It is undoubtedly a good idea to tackle the problems in order of severity.
However, it is important for us to realise that the situation is no longer the same as it was prior to the crisis.
We cannot have a dynamic economy unless we have motivated workers.
Although the European Council is very ambitious in this matter, I would nevertheless call on you to ensure even more active participation by the European Parliament, national parliaments and various Council sectors.
in writing. - (PT) In this debate, those who hold responsibility within the European Union remain far removed from the real problems of citizens.
In the face of the failure of the present European Employment Strategy, the 2020 programme must indeed create more and better jobs, with primary consideration given to the increased participation of women and disadvantaged groups in the labour market.
Against this backdrop, the 2020 strategy, which is intended to be a continuation of the Lisbon Strategy, must create the conditions required for sustainable growth and fiscal consolidation.
Employment policy must focus on labour market flexibility where employees assume responsibility for their working life through ongoing training, adapting to change and mobility.
Europe 2020 must not repeat the failures of its predecessor, the Lisbon Strategy.
The new strategy has been shaped, to a significant degree, by the economic crisis, the effects of which it is going to have to tackle.
At the same time, we must make up for our neglect.
To achieve this objective, we should, above all, concentrate on strengthening the single market and increasing the free flow of services.
The EU should implement a European digital agenda as quickly as possible to contribute to the establishment of a truly single, common market in Internet trade, so that consumers will be able to take advantage of competitive price offers in other Member States and SMEs will be able to operate in the European market unhindered.
On the one hand, solidarity among Member States which guarantees that no Member State will be left behind in the crisis.
Common agricultural and coherence policies are the true results of European integration and symbols of solidarity between Member States and nations.
As a Hungarian Member of Parliament and a politician from a new Member State, I consider the new priorities formulated by the European Commission as having equal importance: building a knowledge-based society, fostering innovation, strengthening social inclusion, creation of new jobs and a more resolute stand against climate change within the framework of sustainable development.
The EU 2020 strategy must mark a breakthrough.
Otherwise, EU 2020 will be a Lisbon 2, a strategy which will have to be replaced in 10 years' time by another new strategy.
EU 2020 must clearly mark the start of the post-Lisbon phase.
We must set the priorities for the strategy which we are launching so that the reforms which will be generated by EU 2020 will survive in the medium and long term.
This process will ensure a better employment level in Member States.
Finally, the European Parliament must have an increased role.
This will allow real information from Member States to be used and prevent the disparities widening between Member States' economies.
An EU 2020 strategy organised according to clear priorities will quickly revive economic growth in the EU, especially in the context of the current financial and economic pressures.
