Firstly, that as long as Robert Mugabe remained in power, protected by a small self-serving element in Zanu-PF and the security forces, pillaging the nation's wealth for their own enrichment, there was little prospect of real change.
He has seen what has happened to his friend and main bankroller, Gaddafi; and just a week ago, on 31 March, the Southern African Development Community, which includes South Africa and all Zimbabwe's neighbours, at last voiced its grave concern at the resurgence of violence in Zimbabwe.
A human rights activist who has never lost his enthusiasm, his motivation, for the cause in all these years.
Our involvement in Zimbabwe is well known, but we should continue to mention it, again and again, precisely because of people like Abel Chikomo.
The European Parliament must demand an immediate end to the persecution of the political opposition to Zanu-PF, of civil activists who are being arrested and tortured, and of NGOs, which have been raided and whose members have been detained arbitrarily.
Robert Mugabe has been strutting the world stage for far too long now and has been behaving in a most dictatorial and brutal fashion towards his own people, and particularly towards opponents within his country.
The government of national unity, which was set up in 2009 to bring about democracy, is obviously not working, due to his efforts to ensure that it does not.
Mr President, we all know that the 2008 agreement, implemented in 2009, for the sharing of power between Robert Mugabe and Morgan Tsvangirai, or between Zanu-PF and the MDC, was not an ideal agreement, nor was it an agreement to bring about an ideal world, but it was the only possible agreement to try to improve the situation of human rights and democracy in Zimbabwe.
Mr President, not everyone in Zimbabwe will be happy about today's debate, since in a few days' time, 18 April will be Independence Day in Zimbabwe.
This was precisely the case in Zimbabwe.
This mine, which was debated in the House last year, was seized by President Robert Mugabe and his cronies.
The sale of diamonds from the Marange mine will help Mugabe to further consolidate his tyrannical hold on Zimbabwe and, indeed, enrich his Zanu-PF thugs.
The 46 members of civil society who were arrested on 19 February by the security forces in Zimbabwe are currently charged with treason.
Let us hope that this will be possible on this occasion. (FI) Mr President, in February, the EU Foreign Affairs Council adopted conclusions concerning the situation in Zimbabwe.
The EU must continue to put pressure on Mugabe, and if there is a decision to hold elections, the EU should be involved as an observer. (PL) Mr President, since our last debate on Zimbabwe in October last year, the situation in this country in southern Africa has not changed.
It is obvious that the political agreement reached two years ago by President Mugabe and Prime Minister Tsvangirai has failed to meet the hopes placed in it and that a new, fully democratic solution is needed.
Today, we are debating a country in the context of the 'Spring of Nations' in Africa, and although Harare is 6 000 kilometres away from Tunis, the most recent case of Côte d'Ivoire shows that sometimes, democracy knows no barriers at all.
Hundreds of government officials, human rights activists and opponents of the regime have been arrested during the last two months.
The President supports nationalisation of the mining sector, which is the main economic sector in Zimbabwe.
Such a measure is harmful as it is precisely the foreign investments in this sector which have maintained the state's stability in the wake of the economic crisis. (FI) Mr President, in Zimbabwe, President Mugabe and the Zanu-PF Party have not managed to keep to the terms of the Global Political Agreement concluded in 2009.
Journalists are harassed.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I think we would all agree that Zimbabwe and its human rights violations have been on our agenda for far too long.
By this clear gesture, we wanted to underline the critical importance of an agreement between the government parties on the necessary steps leading to elections in the country.
The EU is deeply concerned at the upsurge in political violence seen in recent months in Zimbabwe.
In this context, the EU welcomes the outcome of the recent SADC summit on 31 March 2011.
The EU believes that strengthened facilitation and mediation efforts by SADC and South Africa are key to preventing further instability in Zimbabwe.
With the disbursement of approximately 365 million since the establishment of the Global Political Agreement in 2009, we are - as I said - the largest donor.
We just have to hope that all the international pressure will finally lead to free and fair elections in Zimbabwe and to the gradual normalisation of the very difficult situation in this country.
The European Union and its Member States must actively engage with the African Union and the Southern African Development Community so as to ensure that future elections are not held in a climate of intimidation and violence.
The forces loyal to Mugabe have intimidated opposition ministers in the government of national unity.
They have harassed leaders of human rights organisations and arrested 46 representatives of civil society on the charge of treason, with some of them having been beaten and even tortured while under arrest.
