Body scanners - Operation of intelligence services in the context of counter-terrorism strategies (debate) The next item is the joint debate on combating terrorism and the statements by the Council and the Commission on body scanners and the operation of intelligence services in the context of counter-terrorism strategies.
Therefore, we are talking about analysing data, about counter-terrorism services; we are talking about exchanging data, and we are talking about body scanners.
Given that this is the subject of our debate, I would like to mention some of the most obvious conclusions that I think we can draw from the failed attack on Detroit.
Firstly, Detroit highlights the fact that terrorists continue to target civil aviation as a priority.
Lastly, Detroit calls for us to pay close attention to failed states, or to any states that are in danger of becoming failed states due to their circumstances.
According to its guidelines, the strategy must bear in mind the statements and concerns that we have dealt with in this House; the need to fight against terrorism, as well as the issues of human rights, the right to privacy, and to protection of personal data.
As such, we would be pleased if the European Union could reach an agreement, and hold a common position in this debate.
The attempted terrorist attack on Northwest Airlines flight 253 to Detroit on 25 December has again confirmed the reality of the threat to civil aviation.
I would like to stress that existing EU standards on aviation security were correctly implemented on 25 December at Amsterdam Schiphol airport.
As noted previously by Parliament in 2008, the use of body-imaging technology raises a number of questions, notably in relation to privacy, data protection and health.
We need to look at these questions seriously.
We also need to make up our minds on whether these concerns are better addressed at national or European level.
Finally, I would like to underline that airport security is a much larger question than the introduction of a new screening technology.
We must develop as well, and body scanners are only one element in this variety.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this is the Commission's new dual approach.
We will do this while, of course, fully respecting that it is the Member States who have the final responsibility for all operational and intelligence work in this field.
The Denver flight showed that recently.
We have statistics from Europol showing that in 2008, EU Member States reported a total of 515 failed or successfully perpetrated terrorist attacks within Europe; 359 individuals were tried on terrorist charges in a total of 187 proceedings; 50% of these were related to al-Qaeda or Islamist terrorism, and 39% to separatist terrorism, such as ETA activities in Spain.
These events and the figures from Europol speak a clear language: terrorism is still there, and it is important that we do not lower our guard and we ensure that all tools are deployed in the fight against terrorism, while of course always fully respecting fundamental rights.
If we look at the instruments that we do have today, we have the EU counter-terrorism strategy, developed after the attacks in Madrid and in London.
That is why respecting fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism is not only a requirement of any democratic society but is a necessity in order to ensure that our policies remain credible, legitimate and sustainable.
Regarding the internal dimension of countering and preventing terrorism, we do have in our counter-terrorist strategy some key objectives on how the Union can contribute in the fight against terrorism.
This development on these policies has, of course, been strongly supported by the European Commission in cooperation with the Member States.
This Action Plan consists of 130 measures.
We will also have to revise how we use our financial resources.
We also have to make sure, as Commissioner Kallas said, that we connect the dots in an appropriate way.
We have to avoid our policies being perceived as ambiguous or as applying double standards.
I would also like to thank our partners.
The first concerns cooperation among the authorities in Europe.
Therefore, the question arises as to whether we are self-confident enough to evaluate it ourselves.
Secondly, we need a global approach to security and counter-terrorism, and that means that we need to avoid drawing hasty conclusions, that we need to stop the politics of announcements, that the potential introduction of body scanners also cannot be seen in isolation from the broader context of other existing or potential measures and that we clearly also need to see it in the context of other aspects, such as public health and the budgetary implications.
The third point is that we must also stop giving the impression that these body scanners will guarantee 100% security.
The events in Detroit and Munich have shown that there are security loopholes.
For this reason, body scanners are being introduced in a mad rush as if they were a miracle cure.
We cannot adopt this method wholesale, because it involves discrimination, but we must investigate all the possibilities while protecting our fundamental rights.
I agree with my fellow Member from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament who is indeed asking these questions.
However, Mr President, the latest scanners are additional security tools.
As far as I am concerned, we can quickly move on to implementing these tools as additional tools.
European citizens also need to know that we in Parliament have a responsibility.
The Commission and Parliament put the emphasis on respecting civil rights, something which is right and necessary, but the danger is that we lose ourselves in formalism and that is what we saw in the debate about the terrorist finance tracking programme.
Commissioner Reding said last week 'what we do know is that body scanners may have a considerable privacy-invasive potential and so we need full consideration of their impact'.
If technology can speed me through so that I am not mistaken for someone else, then that is a great thing, but for the many people I represent in my constituency who are badly treated at security, or singled out, what they want is safety.
Some experts have already said that the explosives used would not have been detected by such scanners.
Finally, I regrettably have to say that I now think we need to have a proper system of passenger profiling. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is continually evolving and we must stay on top of the changing scenario.
If Europe persists in over-guaranteeing civil liberties, we will open up an extremely dangerous breach in the internal security of our nations and this is what the Commissioner should be concerned with.
Instead, I find him to be over-general and cowardly by failing to identify Islamic terrorism and the danger it represents by name. (DE) Mr President, throughout the world 1 200 people died as a result of terrorist attacks in 2000.
On the subject of cooperation between the security services in the European Union, I would like to say that the European Parliament urgently needs democratic rights of control in this area, as is the norm in every democratic Member State.
While the adage that 'a people that is ready to sacrifice a little freedom for a little security ends up losing both' seems completely over the top to me, I am nevertheless convinced that we must do everything we can to find a balance between freedom and security, because this is the foundation of democracy and because, without that balance, the terrorists will have won if they succeed in terrorising us all.
In terms of freedom, as a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I wonder whether there is not a risk to health and, of course, a risk with regard to infringements of personal privacy, and therefore of fundamental rights, and with regard to the use of these images.
China is still terrorised by the Chinese Communist Party after 61 years of power.
Of course we must defend personal rights, but without preying on people's fears.
It may be that scanners are a solution, but they certainly will not solve the problem of security at airports. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in essence I wanted to state the following: there is no problem as serious as that of personal rights and the protection of privacy when this right is not adequately safeguarded.
If today we are concerned with ensuring that the European Union deals with this common problem, because the Member States have gone ahead, it is probably because a significant challenge, such as that of protecting crossing points, and other matters besides, may not necessarily be met in practice.
However, the debate on the introduction of body scanners at airports in all of the European Union's Member States has wider ramifications.
The effectiveness of this measure is debatable due to the fact that this technology cannot detect substances which have been ingested or are explosive in powder form.
This applies in particular to body scanners.
The alternative is the principle that everyone does what they want and no one does what they should, but everyone does something.
If a measure of this kind is to be introduced, we must discuss who will pay for it and how it will be financed, because both liquid scanners and body scanners cost huge amounts of money.
I happen to be the rapporteur for this area and I would be pleased to see the Council gradually starting to move on this issue, because it is important to establish in principle that public security is a public matter and must be financed at least in part from public funds. (RO) I would like to draw the attention of the Commission, the Council and my fellow Members to the side-effects and increased risk of carcinogenic conditions and genetic mutations following repeated exposure to gamma, X and T radiation.
I would like to stress that the risks and distress which we could be exposed to if body scanners were possibly used on a large scale, along with the uncertainty about their effectiveness, do not justify such a solution ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) Terrorism has no values, nor does it have any deeper meaning.
This is why I support what Mrs Malmström has said concerning the need for an evaluation of all types of scanners.
The second question concerns the risks to health.
I would like to make it quite clear that I am not prepared to expose myself to body scanners until these assessments have been made.
The European Parliament is only waking up to this now that EU citizens are being obliged to undress both literally and financially in front of the US.
I would like to remind you, as I did in my first speech, that I am certainly not in favour of holding debates on such a complex and sensitive topic as the fight against terrorism after attacks or apparent attacks.
We obviously need to examine these attacks or apparent attacks to find out what went wrong with our security systems, but there is no doubt, as has been said time and again here this afternoon, that the counter-terrorism policy must be a carefully thought-out, calm and deliberate policy and must be applied in a proportional manner.
As a result, we need to analyse, for example, what happened in Detroit to try to prevent mistakes, but we must not respond with a knee-jerk reaction after every attack because this would probably result in us adopting measures that, in some cases, would simply not make sense.
Europe has a strategy for its counter-terrorism policy.
That is also why we are concentrating on aspects such as radicalisation, which I mentioned in my speech, as did the Commissioner.
In order to adopt such a position, and in line with what I said at the start of this speech, we need a calm and deliberate debate focusing on three elements that are currently being studied by the Commission: firstly, the effectiveness of the scanners (whether or not they are effective, what their limits are and whether or not they can do what we want them to do); secondly, their compatibility with fundamental rights and individual freedoms; and thirdly, their compatibility with the health of the people who will have to pass through them.
I asked what the Council thought of the gross breach of Article 6 - the fundamental rights clause - of the EU Treaty in light of the UK Court of Appeals' ruling confirming that the UK was guilty ... (The President cut off the speaker) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your contributions, but I must say that we have not got a proposal today to introduce some new machines in a compulsory manner in all Member States and all airports.
Terrorism develops and we, too, must use all technological developments to defend our citizens and passengers.
We will, together with colleagues Cecilia Malmström and Viviane Reding, propose a common European approach with all necessary requirements concerning all technological, legal, fundamental rights and privacy issues and aspects.
That is why I have asked my services to, very quickly, carry out an analysis of the policies, of the framework, of the tools that we already have, in order to see what can be improved and how we can use them in an even more intelligent way.
I am also convinced that Europol, Eurojust and Member State authorities can work much better and in a much more coordinated way.
Events like the one in Detroit are important as they serve as a kind of alarm bell, alerting us to the fact that terrorism is still present; it is still a very important threat.
The debate is closed. (ES) Mr President, before we finish, I would simply like to make a point of order and express my surprise, because when the catch-the-eye procedure began, I raised my hand, thinking that it was starting then, but you already had a full list.
The use of body scanners is a delicate issue.
The European Commission is due to produce three studies on the use and effects of body scanners.
It is a question whether passengers are prepared to sacrifice their discomfort for their safety.
Those proposing new measures such as body scanners have the duty to prove their necessity.
It has been established that body scanners are more effective.
The problem is that they may offend passengers' dignity.
Ensuring the security of air travel in the fight against terrorism is without doubt essential, but we must ascertain what impact the measures created to ensure this security have on our health, fundamental rights and freedoms, privacy and dignity.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that while using new technical measures, which are aimed at achieving a high level of airport security, it is also very important to set boundaries between human rights and security itself, as those measures are not only related to the protection of citizens, but to the impact on their rights and freedoms.
in writing. - The European Parliament cannot give its consent to the introduction of body scanners, which are essentially a type of X-ray, before the existing health and privacy concerns surrounding them have been properly addressed by European authorities.
Given that the American authorities have conceded that it was a failure on the part of their security agencies rather than airport technology which led to the recent Detroit terrorist scare, I believe that, before we invest in this controversial technology, a variety of less expensive methods - such as increased intelligence, different search methods and enhanced international cooperation - should be explored.
in writing. - The International Federation of journalists, representing 600 000 journalists in 125 countries, has called on the Israeli Authorities to revoke a deportation order on journalist Jared Malsin who was deported because his reports on the situation in the West Bank and Gaza were critical of the Israeli Government.
in writing. - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the toolset of security measures used in international airports is continually expanded as aviation safety - our safety - faces more and more challenges.
This is why these issues should be investigated in their overall context.
However, we only feel safe when safety measures do not restrict our rights disproportionately, do not violate our personal rights and, in some cases, do not damage our health, and when the measures taken to ensure our safety, as a whole, are not disproportionate, cannot be circumvented and have an appropriate level of efficiency.
Body scanners are not infallible but they are the best technology available at present and so we need to use what tools we have to hand in order to reduce the terrorist threat.
The information we are receiving about this makes us very sceptical.
The terrorist threat has made us agree more readily to the restriction of our own freedom.
This system has proved its effectiveness over many years.
It is our duty as MEPs to get involved in resolving the issues raised by the subject of body scanners with regard to both the fight against terrorism and the civil and personal rights of Europeans.
However, we have an obligation to ensure the protection of all the rights of our fellow citizens across the European Union.
The research should be coordinated by the European Commission with the full cooperation of Member States.
