Aviation security charges (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Leichtfried, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on aviation security charges - C7-0038/2009 -.
I would just like to say in advance that on almost all points - and I would like to thank my fellow Member - there is a unanimous perception that the report could bring more transparency.
Therefore, we have decided that all airports that are commercially run must be included, and I think that that was the correct decision too.
Finally, we have reached a point where we have a great deal of unanimity here in plenary, namely on the point that we should make a distinction between charges for security facilities, security measures included in the EU rules, and charges for security measures which go beyond that - what are referred to as the 'more stringent measures'.
On the one hand, this should ensure that it will be dealt with carefully, that security measures will not just be taken immediately without considering whether they are really necessary and that it will also be taken into consideration what this means for passengers and what it means for airlines and airports.
Attacks on airlines are, as a rule, not directed at airlines, but at the states from which these airlines come, and therefore we also think that, in principle, security is still a public duty, and therefore must also be financed publicly.
I think that they are all very justified and well-founded.
I think that that is very important, particularly at times when airlines and airports are under pressure.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the proposal for a directive on aviation security charges is the result of the debate on financing aviation security which has been on the table since 2001.
Furthermore, the Commission considers that aviation security charges should be set in consultation with airport users and should be cost-related.
With this in mind, and with respect to the position outlined in the report up for adoption, the Commission would like to note that Amendment 32, which would oblige Member States to finance more stringent measures, will give rise to intense discussions with the Council on this proposed directive.
We look forward very much to working with the rapporteur and the Parliament and to further progress on this issue. (DE) Madam President, I am sorry that I must burden the plenary session, but in accordance with Rule 151, I feel forced to make a personal remark.
This dossier has actually been in the making since the moment we adopted a European regulation on the application of security measures at European level in the wake of the attacks of 11 September 2001.
Right from the outset, the European Parliament has always stressed that the funding issue is a serious one and that we have to find a European solution to it.
However, the Council has always obstructed this.
A second important consideration is that we need to make a distinction between security measures which we all have agreed jointly at a European level, and other additional measures being taken individually by Member States.
That is, we want to know what proportion of the ticket price - at the moment it is just a proportion of the ticket price that is paid for security - is really relevant to security.
Today, airports are more like a small town, offering all kinds of facilities - but with security measures that have made them something of a Fort Knox, and things are only moving in one direction: towards more and more of them.
I wholeheartedly support the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, first, I would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the other groups, for their work.
Therefore, these three points are crucial for me.
The level of these charges should correspond only to costs demonstrably incurred in securing the safety of passengers.
There is already a big argument over who should cover the costs arising from this - who should pay for the natural disaster, so to speak - and to what extent the restrictions are justified.
While transport ministers are agonising over this, we must decide which costs relating to anti-terror security regulations, which are becoming more and more restrictive, can be passed on to passengers.
So one might take an ironic view of this: hopefully, we will not go from one chaotic aviation situation to another. (FR) Madam President, I, too, would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Leichtfried, on his text and his spirit of cooperation on this matter, and I particularly support his proposals on the financing of aviation security, since we are discussing aviation security here, and not air safety.
I therefore think that we need to stand up to the Council and defend to the bitter end Amendment 32 of the report adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Passengers concerned about their own journey and comfort cannot understand the need for security measures, no matter how lax or tight they might be, and even the costs they incur, unless they are aware of the significance of such dramatic or tragic events as those of 11 September 2001.
I take a positive view of the subsidiarity in the report, and it should definitely be retained.
It is also very important for me that there should be a clear separation between taxes and charges, and all government tasks - whether fingerprinting and photographing, police tasks, fighting terrorism or something similar - must clearly be financed through taxation and not through consumer charges.
If individual states then have a vital interest in taking security measures that go beyond this, then I think that, in this area, they also have the duty to bear the costs.
Last but not least, I am concerned about the interpretation of the provisions on charging for the cost of security measures implemented not by airports but by the airline companies directly, as these costs may, on the contrary, be charged to passengers, and this, in my view, means there is a potential risk of abuse in the form of over-charging.
After all, the passengers, and every citizen, are already paying the Member States for their security in general.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this debate on aviation security has been a fascinating one, and shows that we all have our own experiences in this field.
However, I would like to warn the Council to let sleeping dogs lie.
Both the Council and the Member States must keep moving on this, otherwise we might once again hear: Come on, let's SWIFT again!
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Leichtfried for his excellent work on the report on aviation security charges, which considers, among its various aspects, one important point: consumer protection and passengers' rights.
There have to be clear and transparent rules because, if airlines charge passengers extra for security measures, this information should be made available, in my view, to ensure that passengers are not out of pocket.
Only in this way will it be possible to guarantee greater transparency and information for passengers.
