rapporteur. - (HU) Madam President, Mr Šefčovič, many speakers start their speech in Parliament by saying that their topic is important, very important or even among the most important.
In other words, this element of the Treaty of Lisbon, frequently mentioned in connection with the expansion of Parliament's powers, namely, that the codecision procedures have increased significantly in number and that the areas in which Parliament can participate have expanded, represents, along with the question of Parliament's power of legislative delegation, not only a quantitative but also a significant qualitative expansion.
In other words, from now on, as the result of a long struggle and battle which has been fought here for many years, and which continues to be fought by the Members of the European Parliament, we are guaranteed that the decisions taken by the European Commission which do not fall within its own jurisdiction but are adopted through delegated legislative powers are overseen by Parliament.
Many may say, of course, that in a formal sense, this oversight already existed.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this new possibility, that is, Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon, will also transform the work of Parliament in the coming years, particularly if we, Members of Parliament, take these powers seriously and are truly able to take decisions on these matters.
Regarding the limitative nature of Article 290, especially the second paragraph, here we have a slight difference of opinion with regard to the means of control of the legislator over the delegated acts, but we would not like to enter into the legal controversy because what we think is that it is very important to look for the practical solutions as regards specific legislation.
Regarding the duration of the delegation of power, here we very much welcome and support the idea of tacit renewal, as expressed in the report, because we found it very constructive and we can say that some solutions of this nature have already been found in several legislative files.
If you would allow me to conclude on the alignment, because this is very important for Parliament, here again we would advocate the pragmatic approach, because this Parliament, together with the Commission, has already done considerable work as regards the alignment of more than 250 basic legislative acts which have been aligned under the pragmatic approach.
To illustrate this point: in 2008, there were 6 000 delegated acts, in other words, a huge mountain of standards, which were turned into a kind of secondary legislation by the Commission and the old comitology procedure.
We now have Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon, and I note that Mr Szájer's report suggests a number of ways of working that safeguard Parliament's prerogatives.
The first is the idea that we reject any provisions that impose on the legislator additional obligations over and above those already included in Article 290.
I have to say that I am bemused that the rapporteur, despite his eloquence, sees Article 290 as a solution.
Our interpretation of Article 290 is that this gives the Commission the opportunity to supplement or amend legislation.
Article 290 is therefore a product of the illegitimate Lisbon Treaty.
It is very important to say once more explicitly that this article, Article 290, can be interpreted as saying that not just the Council, but also Parliament can repeal the relevant delegation single-handedly and in a relatively simple way.
In fact, Article 290 refers precisely to this matter.
Indeed, delegated acts are general acts which may modify unnecessary aspects of a basic legislative act, providing a mandate for delegating executive power to the Commission.
I absolutely agree with Mr Leinen that the Lisbon Treaty brought in enormous changes.
Moreover, we are planning to develop a new type of cooperation whereby the European Parliament would be involved in the preparatory work of delegated acts, and we would like to do this on very solid ground.
This report is about affirming clearly that these are our rights and we insist on them.
Therefore, it is fundamental that they are developed and decided upon in a fully transparent manner which effectively enables the Parliament and the Council to democratically control the exercise of the power delegated to the Commission.
Finally, I would like to stress that it should be a priority for the Commission to present all legislative proposals needed to adapt the acquis to the provisions of Articles 290 and 291, including the acquis in policy areas which, pursuant to the Lisbon Treaty, are now subject to the codecision procedure.
I am convinced that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and, in particular, Articles 290 and 291 thereof, reinforces the democratic character of the Union and rationalises its legal order.
For it is only by this procedure that we will gain full legislative power and a role in the implementation process of any piece of legislation.
However, for this to make sense, Parliament must be given full access to information and, in this, I am in full agreement with the other participants in this debate.
