Establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme by Rui Tavares, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group - B7-0205/2011), the oral question to the Council on establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme for refugees by Nadja Hirsch, Sophia in 't Veld, Sonia Alfano, Nathalie Griesbeck, on behalf of the ALDE Group - B7-0206/2011), the oral question to the Council on establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme by Manfred Weber, Simon Busuttil, Georgios Papanikolaou, on behalf of the PPE Group - B7-0208/2011).
Mr President, refugees are probably the most vulnerable populations in the world and, of them, the most vulnerable of the vulnerable are those who can neither return home nor stay in the countries of transit.
The Swedish Presidency talked about resettling 100 000 per year and the Belgian Presidency, at the end of its own term said - we had Prime Minister Yves Leterme here -that refugees were the image of the European Union's very raison d'être.
Excuse me for saying so, but refugees are important for the Hungarian Presidency for historical reasons because it was for Hungary, in 1956, that the first concerted effort was made by the international community to resettle thousands of refugees.
The feedback that we have received during our discussions indicates that these Member States are willing to come on board.
We need to start up this programme, Minister, and push ahead with it and we need to understand, when debating budgetary resources post-2013, that there are resources for this programme up to 2013 and, if we waste any more time, we shall no longer be able to utilise those resources and facilities.
We cannot afford to wait for yet another Lampedusa, Minister, before we understand how necessary this initiative is and that we need to push full steam ahead with it. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, honourable Members, the European Parliament addressed three questions related to the resettlement of refugees to the European Council.
Their number was growing; their repatriation, as such, is irresolvable, and therefore in this instance the resettlement system certainly comes into consideration.
At present, there are about 200 people who should be able to take part in the resettlement programme.
By the way, Mr Martonyi has also held talks with the Foreign Minister of the Benghazi Transitional National Council, as well as the Egyptian Interior Minister precisely to gain an overview of the refugee situation.
As regards a common European asylum policy, I would like to emphasise that we will do our utmost in order to create a common policy and system which is based on the full application of the 1951 Geneva Refugee Convention relating to the status of refugees and other relevant international conventions, and is in accordance with the commitments undertaken in the Stockholm Programme by the European Council.
I would also like to stress that the Council, as it acknowledges the importance of resettlement as a lasting solution for refugees, welcomed the proposal for a decision on establishing a joint EU resettlement programme and the related Commission announcement, which the Commission submitted back in September 2009.
As a concrete example, I would highlight the conclusions of the Council in July and November 2008 in which the EU Member States made a commitment to resettle Iraqi refugees in their territory or rather this is what we encouraged them to do in these conclusions.
As the honourable Members rightly pointed out in their questions, the European Council and the European Parliament reached agreement on the political content of the decision as a result of the aforementioned informal meetings.
The Council, however, could not support the proposal of the European Parliament which suggested that the adoption of the common EU annual resettlement priorities happen in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty through the application of the procedure relating to delegated acts.
Nonetheless, even now Member States are entitled to a fixed amount of EUR 4 000 for each person resettled who falls under one of the categories specified in the relevant decision.
There are a great many issues where very important matters are the captives of the 'implementing act' versus 'delegated act' dilemma, and I would like positive progress to be achieved in these during the Hungarian Presidency.
The Union as a whole must help these countries.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Győri, I have one figure, one observation and one question.
One figure: there are more than 10 million refugees in the world.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I speak as a former UK Immigration Minister.
The UK, like other Member States, has played its part in resettling refugees through national resettlement programmes in the past, but it is hugely important that through a coordinated, cooperative and communicative approach we discuss how we can best reconcile assisting those most in need with the situations of those Member States that are already overburdened with national priorities.
I am cautious, however, that programmes in this area should not undermine a nation's right to set its own policies.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, resettlement is an important instrument in dealing with refugees.
Resettlement is for people who have not reached, or have not tried to reach, the European Union to apply for asylum here, so for all the Heads of State who are constantly saying that we should tackle migration where it originates before it ends up in the European Union, this should be the perfect instrument.
Resettlement could also play a role in the long run when we are tackling the situation in North Africa, but there are also other instruments we have in place which are not being used.
I would like to know what how you are trying to put the common asylum system into place by 2012, because that seems to be rather late to me. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about migration these days, we obviously cannot help but begin by analysing the situation in North Africa.
There is, therefore, a humanitarian emergency in the world around us: now it is not just in Afghanistan, Somalia and the Congo, but we are also facing it in Egypt, in Libya and in many other countries.
The recommendation that we would like to be taken from here, Mrs Enikő, is that the European Parliament is not asking the Council to delay: the European Parliament is asking the Council to decide. (FR) Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the humanitarian crisis in Libya, today more than ever, it is fundamental that Europe provides itself with the means of concerted action in respect of resettlement.
It is indeed the case that the European Union's responsibility in this area cannot allow for inaction.
Finally, insofar as it complements the existing national asylum schemes, the European resettlement programme should, as Parliament's position in 2010 already made clear, be based on the various experiences and results within the Member States and be subject to enhanced coordination. (DA) Mr President, everywhere in the world, streams of refugees are on the move.
The vast majority of refugees go back to their homeland, but around 200 000 have to be resettled somewhere else in the world.
I would therefore like to ask whether the Council can tell us what this stream of refugees will mean in terms of what proportion can be included in the resettlement programme.
Although we have long known these facts, and although political consensus has prevailed between Parliament, the Commission and the Council for at least a year, there has been no final decision.
Solidarity with these people is a central issue requiring concrete measures, whether in terms of aid for refugees or in terms of supporting the countries that, because of their geographic proximity, are most highly sought by refugees..
We cannot continue to wait for decisions that are dragging on whilst thousands of people are knocking at our gates daily, without raising the response to which they have a right. (HU) Mr President, Minister of State, we can see, as you too have said, that it was the events of the past few weeks that best demonstrated how the matter of refugees could become a serious, acute issue in Europe at any moment.
However, as has been said here in this debate, this area requires social consensus.
All of us, and the Member States, too, have a lot of work to do in this area.
First of all, let us have a look at the record of the European Union, in that many have said here that we have fallen behind the United States and other countries in terms of generosity.
According to the statistics published by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the 27 Member States of the EU received 1 150 980 asylum seekers between 2005 and 2009, whereas in Canada and the US the corresponding figure was 391 090.
We will evaluate the migration situation at the 11 April meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
I would like to state that this is a very important question.
I was also asked a question as to what will happen if the flow of refugees comes in this direction.
By the way, despite the fact that we have a legal problem that we have been unable to settle as yet - anyone is free to do so on a voluntary basis -, as far as I know, Italy has already voluntarily resettled 125 people, meaning that the issue is already partially being resolved after all, thanks to the honest efforts of the Member States.
author. - Mr President, my comment is methodological in nature.
The Council has told us that they agree with everything except for Article 290, so after coordinating with our shadow rapporteurs, and as rapporteur for resettlement, I would like to make two comments on methodology. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr Tavares, I hope you will forgive me, but we are so far behind schedule that I had to cut you off.
