Databases relating to racial and ethnic origin in the EU (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission by Monika Flašíková Beňová, Claude Moraes, Kinga Göncz and Sylvie Guillaume, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, on databases relating to racial and ethnic origin in the EU - B7-0553/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Hélène Flautre, Raül Romeva i Rueda and Judith Sargentini, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on databases relating to racial and ethnic origin in the EU - B7-0554/2010), the oral question to the Commission by Renate Weber, Nathalie Griesbeck, Sophia in 't Veld, Sonia Alfano, Cecilia Wikström, Louis Michel, Sarah Ludford, Gianni Vattimo, Leonidas Donskis, Alexander Alvaro, Niccolò Rinaldi, Ramon Tremosa i Balcells, Metin Kazak and Marielle De Sarnez, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on databases relating to racial and ethnic origin in the EU - B7-0556/2010), and the oral question to the Commission by Rui Tavares, Cornelia Ernst, Marie-Christine Vergiat, Cornelis de Jong, Nikolaos Chountis, Marisa Matias and Eva-Britt Svensson, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Roma databases and discrimination - B7-0557/2010).
Mrs Reding, you are quite rightly delighted today that France has responded to the European Commission's infringement proceedings at the eleventh hour and has provided a legislative programme for establishing procedural rights as required under the directive on the freedom of movement.
We know that there is a lot of opposition from the Member States, but we are behind you, Ms Reding.
I should like to refer to the situation in France, the situation in Italy - which seems to be even more serious - and the situation in my own country.
They are being deported to Kosovo and, in doing this, France has been contravening EU treaties for months, the principle of anti-discrimination is being violated - and the Commission behaves as if it is satisfied - and I see this rather differently to the previous speaker - with the promise by the French Government to provide the legal basis for transposing the directive on freedom of movement by the beginning of 2011.
In connection with the databases, I would like to ask you: what definite information to you have, what initiatives will you take, if these databases actually exist in this way, and will you initiate treaty infringement proceedings in such cases?
Having said that, there have been many debates, many scandals and many actions in the last weeks, and I think this Parliament should look at what has happened in France and the reaction in the European Commission to what was some kind of a historical event.
The Commission decided - all 27 Commissioners - on 29 September to start infringement proceedings against France on the basis of non-implementation of those rights of the human being, the rights of the individual citizen.
I do not need to tell you all the pressures which have occurred since that moment, but the Commission said unanimously that it will start court procedures and will put an ultimatum to France.
If France has not answered in a positive, acceptable way before 15 October, this court procedure is going to be implemented.
Under the 2004 directive, there are material rights, we also call them procedural rights, which exist for the sake of protecting citizens against an unacceptable action by the authorities when they are imprisoned.
So we said to France: by 15 October, we need to know the ways in which you intend to change French law implementing the 2004 procedural rights and showing us a credible timetable of how you are going to introduce that into French law.
Since 08.00 on Saturday morning, my experts have been looking at the papers and I have come to the conclusion today that all the points on the basis of law which the Commission asked for from France have been answered - though, of course, not yet applied in national French law, because first they have to go to the Senate and then be introduced de facto into French law and applied in real terms.
We are leaving it open until the moment the French Government has really applied this legislation de facto in day-to-day proceedings.
So, as of today, we have these two cases.
This is, I think, a very important fact because I would also like to tell Members very frankly that the implementation of the 2004 directive on free movement is not brilliant.
So something has happened.
That is enough about the French question, because a decision has been taken by the Commission on that matter, but it is not finished and is still an open procedure.
We have again been given assurances by the French authorities that everything is all right, but a different system applies here, because there is a French law here on data protection and the handling of data which is checked in accordance with our rules by the French data protection authority CNIL.
There, we still have a problem because this framework directive applies only as from 27 November this year.
When such notification is made, the national data protection authority and the Commission are in a position to assess if the measures are in line with data protection rules, and here we have the result of the preliminary analysis by CNIL which clearly says that such authorisations have not been asked for.
There were several databases where the processing of sensitive data was provided for and was notified by the Netherlands to the Commission in 2005 and 2006.
You have the conclusions of the CNIL report submitted to the prime minister.
We are also honourable in France and I can guarantee that the Mens file has never existed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ethnic profiling is not a new practice in the Member States, but it does appear to have intensified in recent years in the name of counter-terrorism operations, maintaining law and order, and even of combating illegal immigration.
Recent revelations about the existence of a database on the Roma and travellers in France have demonstrated how important it is that the Commission should continue its investigations in order to obtain additional information about the existence of these databases but also to establish whether the databases are legal and compatible with the principle of non-discrimination.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I know that it is very late, but this evening's debate involves a fairly passionate clash of opinions.
We have heard about the expulsions in France this summer, the circular issued on the 5 August - which fortunately was later withdrawn - the Mens file, and more.
The answer to the other question is also very important.
I have been active in this field for many years and I have to say that I was appalled, Commissioner, by what they told me about the situation of the Roma in the Marseille area.
Ask for the records of all the inspections carried out by the CNIL and ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, on 9 September, Parliament adopted a resolution that triggered a timely and necessary debate.
This means that even if the proceedings against France are ultimately not brought, this debate will have had a purpose, because it has been shown to be timely and necessary. (RO) As you are all aware, 2010 was meant to be the European year for combating poverty, social exclusion, discrimination and xenophobia.
However, in actual fact, I think that the battle has been lost, at least this year.
While the new Slovak Government amended the law on national language protection in a good direction, the law still stipulates fines.
France and Romania must act together to facilitate Roma social inclusion and obtain the necessary funding. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, today's debate demonstrates once again how important the decision made by the European Parliament on 9 September was, in other words that, in our opinion, France - a Member State - was violating fundamental rights in this instance by discriminating against people on account of their ethnicity, and we called on you to take action.
In our opinion, however, you have now taken a step backwards, because the call for treaty infringement proceedings to be initiated on account of there being discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin has just been supported once again by the documents that a few speakers have already mentioned and which have been referred to in French newspapers today.
Any possible over-zealousness of the security services can surely be investigated and, depending on the results, I imagine, sensitively handled in order for it to be acceptable to the European Union. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, the Movement for a Better Hungary (Jobbik) proposed as early as 2006 that it should be possible to indicate a person's ethnicity in the criminal records, so that when applicable, attention can be drawn to Gypsy criminals.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, in a nutshell, the case against France has not been dropped.
Excluding those in France, there are 10 million Roma in Europe, who make up the largest minority in Europe.
I myself come from a country with 500 000 citizens.
There are 10 million Roma, so you can appreciate the scale of the issue.
The creation of ethnic profiles is not a new practice in the Member States, but it has been on the rise in recent years, especially following the terrorist attacks in Madrid and London.
