Equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity (debate) The next item is the report by Astrid Lulling, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/631/EEC (17279/3/2009 - C7-0075/2010 -.
Parliament adopted its amendments at first reading on 4 May 2009.
As the German saying goes, Politik ist die Kunst des Erreichbaren, or politics is the art of the possible.
I am grateful to everyone, including my colleagues from the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, who contributed to the directive. (Applause) Mrs Lulling, I did not want to interrupt you, but you are entitled to four minutes now and two minutes at the end.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am pleased to be here for Parliament's debate on the draft recommendation put forward by Ms Lulling on the Commission's proposal concerning application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in self-employed activities.
The Commission fully supports the text which the committee approved by an overwhelming majority on 3 May, and I urge Parliament to do so too.
In the European Union today, there is insufficient protection for self-employed women who are mothers, and there are insufficient improvements in the situation of spouses of self-employed people.
I trust that the newly-drafted directive on maternity leave will soon extend maternity benefits to 18 weeks for all working mothers without exception.
I wish to express my thanks to the Commissioner, the representatives of the Council and, last but not least, to Mrs Lulling, with whom I have enjoyed excellent cooperation, and also to all my colleagues in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
In actual fact, we are at an important juncture in the European Union, which is going through a crisis, but this directive supports female entrepreneurship.
The European Union must develop and support entrepreneurship among women in order to help create jobs and guarantee equal opportunities on the labour market, especially at the current time.
This new legislative framework will allow us to ensure the same degree of protection in both cases when women are self-employed and when they are only spouses and partners of self-employed workers.
As a result of this amendment to the directive, Member States will provide standard social security entitlements, including 14 weeks' paid maternity leave for self-employed women and for the spouses or life partners of self-employed workers.
This update to the legislation will allow Member States to decide and give self-employed women and spouses assisting self-employed workers the opportunity to join a social security scheme on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
I believe that this comprehensive legislative text marks a small step which is, all the same, exceptionally important in terms of equal treatment for men and women.
It guarantees greater equality of treatment for those individuals who are currently seeking opportunities for self-employment and, logically, for their dependents too: the wives or husbands of these self-employed persons.
Consequently, this need to ensure equal rights, as much between Member States as in relation to the type of activity and the type of social security coverage we have today, is - and I insist on this - a priority which goes beyond the directive which we about to adopt today.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, firstly, I would like to congratulate Ms Lulling on this report: she made a valiant effort.
The aim of the report is admirable and supports the principle of equal treatment for self-employed women and men workers and their spouses.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission.
Another important point in the directive that has been negotiated is that, in the event of a future directive on longer parental leave for employees, the Commission must inform Parliament and the Council in order to enable us to provide those in self-employment with equal rights to employees if appropriate.
I would also like to add that, in view of the EU 2020 strategy and the efforts to increase growth within the EU, discrimination against female entrepreneurs must cease.
They must also be entitled to parental leave and the ability to combine working life and family life - something that we discuss so often.
To resolve this problem, I believe we must implement measures - such as those contained in the directive we are discussing - whilst keeping our eyes firmly fixed on the family as our guiding star, as this is the only way that these measures will be meaningful and have a hope of success!
Unless it puts the family at the centre, any package of measures will be a ragbag of strategies that will ultimately prove fruitless. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 24 years, it is time to update and adapt the directive on the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity.
The Member States can decide which path to take - whether they want to make this cover mandatory or voluntary.
The 14 weeks' maternity leave for self-employed women is a good decision; it will place these women on an equal footing with those in employment, and provides sufficient time for the healthy recovery of mother and child.
I would like to thank everyone who contributed to it. (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive on the equal treatment of men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity is of crucial importance, as it secures social conditions comparable to those of employed women for millions of European women who are self-employed, entrepreneurs or who assist their spouses.
The most important and key element of the directive is the right to a minimum of 14 weeks' maternity leave.
We are now ensuring that all European women have the right to maternity leave.
If we want to encourage entrepreneurship, these issues now being considered regarding the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity are of key importance and are a part of this debate.
From now on, their social rights will be considerably enhanced, and I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Lulling, on the work she has done.
Europe must protect.
Maternity leave is also provided for all women.
It is also considered fundamentally fair that the right to maternity leave should not be reduced for the agricultural sector and that it should be extended to all self-employed workers who I recall represented 10.5% of all workers in the European Union in 2007.
This, I would say, is why it should apply to all self-employed workers, irrespective of their field of activity; be it in the craft industry, in commerce, in the liberal professions or in small and medium-sized enterprises.
Therefore, legal measures which provide for an equal position for the self-employed will make it easier for women to start up in business on their own.
Indeed, these measures will also allow Member States which are thinking seriously about family policy to take the opportunity to improve their own legislation.
I should like to remind you that in 2007, more than 10% of workers in the European Union were self-employed.
The main objective of this directive is for social protection to be extended to the partners of all self-employed workers, including unmarried couples, and for all self-employed workers or self-employed couples to be covered by social security, which is not offered today by all Member States.
At this time, we are actively engaged in the design of the EU 2020 strategy where we shall define the future of the European model.
This is an important step forward, all the more so because the compromise reached this year had, for many years, been impossible to achieve.
Indeed, I believe it is vital to stress the importance of social protection for the assisting spouses or recognised life partners of self-employed workers.
Let us not forget that, in many European countries, assisting spouses still do not have a status in their own right, that their work is not recognised, and that they are not covered by social security for self-employed workers.
I also share her view - as do other Members - that the greater maternity protection for self-employed women and the improvements for spouses of self-employed people should not be limited by this directive just to people working in agriculture, but must, of course, also apply to other areas, including the liberal professions.
Assisting spouses do not have their own legal statute everywhere, so their work is not always recognised and they do not have independent social security arrangements.
In all these areas, it is necessary to ensure appropriate social and legal protection.
It is a matter of using compromises and options to take into account divergent social policy traditions, such as whether to make insurance for assisting spouses mandatory or voluntary. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to join in congratulating Mrs Lulling.
I welcome the fact that this report takes a further step towards realising the principle of equal treatment of men and women, including in the area of self-employment.
This is not the end of the process, but it is a huge step forward.
I therefore believe that these Members could, in good conscience, vote for the other amendments.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 18 May 2010.
Social conditions for self-employed people and employed people vary widely in the Member States, and social security provision in the event of long-term or permanent exclusion from work is practically non-existent in some cases.
Assisting spouses do not have their own social security arrangements.
