Guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States - Europe 2020 - Implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States (debate) Τhe next item is the joint debate on the Council and Commission statements on Europe 2020; the report by Pervenche Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States - C7-0033/2011 -; the Commission statement on the implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, I very much welcome this opportunity to appear before you to talk about a subject which is of particular importance for the Hungarian Presidency: the Europe 2020 Strategy.
Some of these challenges have been generated by the financial and economic crisis, but some of them are inherent in our limited capacities and determination to fulfil the objectives and targets of the 2010 Lisbon Strategy.
It is also essential if we are to maintain the social model, our way of life, which is a key characteristic of Europe, dear to us all, and which we must preserve.
The 2020 Strategy confirmed five EU headline targets which constitute shared objectives guiding the action of Member States and the Union as regards promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty.
Let me emphasise some important elements concerning economic governance.
This new process started in January 2011 with the presentation of the Commission's annual growth survey.
The General Affairs Council has, in particular, been tasked with preparing a synthesis report for its meeting of 21 March, which will set out the main messages on the work being undertaken in the various sectoral councils.
After that, work should be taken forward with a view to elaborating country-specific recommendations which the Member States will take into account when finalising their budgets for 2012 and implementing their growth strategies.
I am absolutely sure that we can count on the support of the European Parliament to help us deliver.
Employment policy is therefore absolutely crucial, including under the 2020 Strategy.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as you know, the Commission adopted the first Annual Growth Survey in connection with the Europe 2020 Strategy last month.
The recent debt crisis in some euro area countries illustrates this all too clearly.
The Annual Growth Survey is very clear about the top priorities.
It sets out an integrated approach to recovery with 10 priority actions under three main headings: first, a rigorous fiscal consolidation and restructuring of the financial sector to step up macroeconomic stability; second, structural reforms for higher employment; and finally, growth-enhancing measures.
The Commission has deliberately chosen to focus this year's Annual Growth Survey on the most immediate challenges stemming from the current economic crisis and on the need to frontload the reforms that are necessary for economic recovery and job creation.
The Employment Guidelines also provide the basis for the draft Joint Employment Report (part of the Annual Growth Survey), which identifies the most urgent measures in the area of employment, including: first, introducing employment-friendly taxation systems, namely by shifting taxes away from labour; second, reducing labour market segmentation; third, removing barriers to balancing private and work life; fourth, supporting unemployed people, through high-quality training and job search services, to get back into work and go into self-employment; and finally, increasing the participation of older workers in labour markets.
More importantly, the Employment Guidelines will form the basis for possible country-specific recommendations which the Council may address to Member States on the basis of Article 148 of the Treaty.
The Annual Growth Survey provides the basis for discussion at the Spring European Council in March and for the economic policy guidance to be addressed to the Member States.
The Commission expects the Member States to take this guidance into account when they draft their stability or convergence programmes and the national reform programmes under the Europe 2020 Strategy.
On the basis of that examination and in line with the Treaty, we will propose country-specific policy guidance and recommendations that Member States should take into account when finalising their budgets for 2012.
Discussion of the new multiannual financial framework will start soon.
The Commission will present its proposals by June.
Your role as a budgetary authority together with the Council will be crucial to ensuring that the Europe 2020 priorities are reflected in the EU budget.
At a time of fiscal constraints, it is more important than ever to show that the EU has added value and that a euro spent at EU level can have a greater impact than a euro spent at national level.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to say how much I welcome this first opportunity to debate the European Semester and the importance that should be given, in this semester, to the Annual Growth Survey.
We would simply like to draw your attention to three points.
The first concerns the content of this Annual Growth Survey.
We also think that there is a considerable danger of seeing budgetary consolidation as the be-all and end-all of this Annual Growth Survey.
You are launching the European semester at the same time as Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy are launching the competitiveness pact.
At the same time as all this, you are renewing the Employment Guidelines, which in all likelihood will be no more than a very vague space to be defined in these national programmes.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Mr President, we are moving into a new era of economic governance.
The European Semester offers a structure into which the existing tools of the Integrated Guidelines, provided for under Articles 121 and 148 of the Treaty, should be incorporated, with the strong involvement of Parliament.
This means that the Semester can provide a coherent framework for the various economic governance processes in the Union in a mutually enhancing fashion.
More broadly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs emphasises that economic governance must be based on the Community method.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (NL) Mr President, the financial and economic crisis has made it painfully clear that our competitiveness, and consequently the sustainability of our social market economy, is at risk.
That is why we now need to draw lessons from the crisis, if we are to make better use of our internal market, bolster the sustainability of our pensions and also enable the labour market to function better.
Our group therefore welcomes the Annual Growth Survey and the Ecofin conclusions of 15 January 2011, which encourage ambitious expectations for the European Semester.
All of us in this house want a Europe of sustainable economic growth with healthy businesses and enough jobs for all our citizens.
Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will continue to work for a strong European economic governance package, based on three pillars: a robust Stability and Growth Pact, ambitious macroeconomic surveillance and an ambitious Europe 2020 Strategy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened closely to what you have said, I have read the Annual Growth Survey, I have read the Ecofin conclusions and now I am absolutely clear about one thing: the European Union is not only experiencing an economic crisis, it is also experiencing a political crisis.
I will then ask you why there is not a single word about investments - when we have lowest level of investment so far, which we ourselves can no longer afford - why there is not a single word about improvements in revenue and nothing about following the cycles or about the fact that we must finally learn to grow together or how we will get out of the crisis.
I would also like to address the Member States directly.
With our 2020 resolution, the ALDE Group sends a strong message to the Council that the current governance structure is too weak, the method of open coordination has failed and the Community method should be restored.
There are also measures for the financial sector.
In the case of economic governance and budgetary consolidation, you are quick to state: 1 January 2011 -1 January 2012.
Can you tell me what Europe 2020 has to do with all that?
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, my group has signed, and will support, this resolution.
My message to both the Commission and Council today is that all 27 Member States have got to start taking job creation enterprise seriously at the level of the single market.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Harms mentioned something important yesterday.
One thing that is clear is that the Europe 2020 Strategy has not so far provided a solution to the problems experienced by the people during the crisis.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Energy 2020 is a vast programme, but we should ask ourselves if we can achieve the target of 20% renewable energy by the due date, not least because the financial crisis is slowing investment.
We are entitled to wonder if it could be time to dust off research projects into water engines. (NL) Mr President, if we are to implement the employment chapter of the Europe 2020 Strategy, it is of the utmost importance that we make adjustments to the immigration policy of most Member States and that of the EU.
Some 25 million people in the European Union are unemployed.
This is a vicious circle and we need to recognise that no one stands to benefit from this situation in the long term.
That aspect, too, should be part of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States. (RO) Mr President, the Europe 2020 Strategy features objectives which cannot be achieved without attaching suitable importance to areas which are not explicitly mentioned in it.
Reliable food production, sustainable management of natural resources and maintaining the territorial balance and diversity of rural areas are key elements of an effective common agricultural policy and of a productive agricultural sector.
The completion of the Single European Sky and speedy implementation of the SESAR project are just as important.
One of the most important factors is the development of trans-European networks, not only in the transport but also in the energy sector, by allocating sufficient financial resources to value-added projects for Europe.
Richard Wilkinson, the British researcher who has written the book 'The Spirit Level' and who visited the European Parliament in Brussels last week, has described it very well: we need equality and we need small gaps in order for us to have societies where security and confidence reign.
This can be translated directly into the Europe 2020 Strategy.
This is not always evident in Parliament's resolutions, but it needs to be evident in practice.
Unemployment rates among older people and disabled people are disgracefully high.
We have had months of introspection and debates about what shape the Europe 2020 Strategy should take, but we have the Employment Guidelines.
Now is the time to start delivering on them. (DA) Madam President, there is a great deal of talk about economic responsibility in Europe these days, and economic responsibility is very often identified by cuts in public expenditure and very rarely by an improvement in the employment situation.
On the one hand, we can see the Annual Growth Survey, and we can see the European Semester leading to fewer jobs and less growth in Europe.
On the other hand, in the Europe 2020 Strategy and in the Employment Guidelines we say that we want to create more and better jobs.
I believe that, if we want to create new jobs in Europe, it is vital that we truly implement the Europe 2020 Strategy and the guidelines for employment in our economic policies.
That would be a demonstration of economic responsibility, but I doubt that it will actually happen. (EL) Madam President, poverty, climate change, low birth rates, immigration, energy and, more importantly, combating unemployment are the main problems we face today in the European Union.
It means that the Europe 2020 Strategy is at risk and will be hard to achieve.
I also think that we need to provide a high standard of education to young people in Europe, in keeping with the needs of the labour market, and that courses should be revised and Member States should commit to reducing the school dropout rate.
We need action. (ES) Madam President, this issue raises a question, just one question: at European level what can we do to give work to those who do not have it?
However, there are two problems: firstly, the debate on the Europe 2020 Strategy is still cut off, structurally, from the economic governance package, from the European Semester and from the Annual Growth Survey and, as a result, we have either a fragmented strategy or parallel strategies, strategies which run in tandem, without adequate coordination, which thus risk undermining each other.
The second problem is that the Council's and the Commission's current emphasis is on tightening up the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and budgetary discipline and reform, with no convincing answers or solutions for the effective implementation and financing of the Europe 2020 Strategy objectives.
The difference between Germany and southern Europe is almost 35%.
Actually, the Lisbon Process was supposed to be an idea along those lines, but little has come of that.
Last week, a study conducted by the OECD in 21 countries showed, once again, that if we want greater employment in Europe, we need to lower corporation tax.
If we do not have the strength to focus our financial resources on projects for the future - and that will involve altercations, debates and decisions - then there is no point in talking about innovation and research only to then fail to make the necessary funds available.
This also means that all countries that introduce structural reforms or changes in fiscal policy or, for example, review the Sunday opening hours of shops, must also examine whether such measures facilitate the development of the employment system and contribute to increasing the employment rate.
A blue-card question is not addressed to plenary in general or to the Commissioner or the Council representative.
Mrs Morvai, that was not the spirit of your question. (HU) Madam President, I would be happy to answer, but obviously our time is too short to discuss this in too much detail.
This is what I was specifically referring to. (FI) Madam President, our fellow Member on the right insisted that policy only interferes with the economy and that people in this House only do things that interfere with policy.
Thus, we need to be more careful in our considerations.
Therefore, an instrument like the European Semester makes sense.
This relates to oligopolies and monopolies, but also to barriers to market access.
I am talking here about energy, transport and communications.
This includes a clear basis for our own resources.
However, the question of money is crucial here, too. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Europe 2020 Strategy is very important, not only for the development of European social and economic policy, but also for national social and economic policy.
We must take care to ensure that this strategy is not misused at European level to pursue a social clearance policy in the Member States.
The impact on the people locally will be disastrous.
Mr Andor, we debated this once before in November 2010: young people cannot be integrated into the labour market by watering down employee rights.
I am referring here to the European Semester, the growth survey that has already been mentioned.
A divided Europe will not be a competitive Europe. (HU) Madam President, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak, both as the rapporteur for the 2010 Employment Guidelines and as the coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
I welcome the Commission's proposal, which intends to maintain the 2010 Employment Guidelines in 2011.
Obviously, a gradual approach will be needed in the future as well. (FR) Madam President, as part of the Europe 2020 Strategy, these Employment Guidelines must address three major challenges.
The first is to emerge from the crisis through research, innovation and competitiveness so as to ensure a true economic recovery that will enable us to achieve this social recovery.
The second is to replace a whole generation of wage-earners who are now retiring.
Against this background, we must target three particularly vulnerable groups in society.
The second target group in society is women, women who fall victim to temporary contracts and who are underpaid.
The third target group is senior citizens whom we must be able to keep in work.
Measures to implement the new strategy have been put on the back burner.
The ambitious Europe 2020 plans, which include an increase in employment levels to 85%, a 20% reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty and an increase in research spending to 3% appear to be under threat already, less than a year after implementation of the strategy began.
Therefore, we need to invest much more in universities, in our education system and our research and development in order to be a power in the area in which we can be: knowledge. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, the aims of Europe 2020 are good and ambitious.
For us to be able to create more jobs, innovative activity, and, in particular, practicebased innovation, we need a cohesion policy that covers the whole of Europe to implement these targets in the regions.
We also obviously need research and development policy and funding for that sector, but I believe the core issue is effective cohesion policy. (PT) Madam President, it is unacceptable that social problems continue to be the poor relation of EU policy, as is the systematic devaluation of the social consequences of budgetary, financial and competition policies that insist on neoliberal dogmas, indifferent to the almost 25 million people unemployed, the almost 30 million people working precarious and poorly paid jobs, and the more than 85 million people living in poverty, while the profits of economic and financial interest groups never stop rising.
Madam President, I would therefore relay here the cries of indignation expressed by various social organisations during the Citizens' Agora held recently by the European Parliament in Brussels.
The integration of third-country nationals should be permitted only through controlled immigration and should be limited to the actual availability of jobs, thus preventing tension and discrimination from occurring at the expense of economic growth and social welfare. (DE) Madam President, expectations in relation to the strategy are widely divergent.
It is true that we need higher qualifications, but we will not achieve that simply by hanging a university degree around the necks of 40% of the population.
That is not the right way to go. (PT) Madam President, I should like to mention that, at a time when there is a severe sovereign and financial debt crisis, it is crucial to commit to economic development through growth and growth strategies and, not least, to have an employment policy in place.
I should therefore like to send out a message to a specific category of workers that must be taken into account in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
However, there is a category of workers - a crucial generational category of workers - comprising those who are over the age of 50 and therefore close to retirement.
Should we wish to raise the retirement age and create a more active society, we must adopt a strategy for workers in precarious jobs and for workers over the age of 50 who are experiencing difficulties. (RO) Madam President, the Europe 2020 Strategy must pave the way for a new model of economic growth in Europe by promoting structural reforms coordinated at Member State level.
I think that these reforms are essential for every Member State, given the high level of youth unemployment.
At the same time, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises in leveraging their full potential with the aim of creating new jobs.
The inclusion on the European Union's list of objectives of economic growth, the social objective and the fight against poverty is also important for Europe because achieving them will help safeguard the European Union's economic independence.
Last but not least, I believe that the Europe 2020 Strategy must be accessible to Europe's citizens as they must understand the responsibilities which fall on all the actors involved in implementing this strategy, such as national, local and regional authorities, whose efforts are also supplemented by the contribution from European citizens. (PL) Madam President, the Employment Guidelines are and should be treated as a fundamental tool in the process of economic governance as expressed in the concept of the European Semester.
These guidelines represent a foundation upon which the Member States' National Reform Programmes are currently being constructed, and it is after all these programmes which will determine the success of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
I would like to stress the importance of involving both national parliaments and regional and local authorities in work on the National Reform Programmes, and in this respect I would also like to make reference to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions.
I would like to draw attention to the need for an integrated horizontal approach to the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
I would therefore also like to reiterate the significance of the cohesion policy instruments for the Europe 2020 Strategy. - (SK) Madam President, the four guidelines of the Council on employment policy should also remain in force in 2011.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, perhaps you could tell President Barroso that we would have liked him to have taken part in this debate as it is the first debate on the issues at stake in the Annual Growth Survey, the cornerstone of this European Semester that he so very much wanted and which he believes is a key element in getting the European Union out of the crisis.
Perhaps you could also tell him that, under these conditions, the European Parliament will not be an easy partner and that the economic governance package needs the Commission to pay greater attention to what emerges from this Parliament.
Finally, I should like to tell you what has struck me at the end of the debate.
We are well aware that, according to the dominant way of thinking in the European Commission - one that you undoubtedly do not subscribe to - to talk about labour market reforms is to talk about flexibility - not about flexicurity, but about flexibility.
I would like to answer all the major points that have been raised as questions or comments and observations concerning the annual growth survey, the Economic Semester and Europe 2020 in general.
For us, economic growth is the priority and all other policies in this phase serve this.
We need to strengthen growth and make it more robust, but in order to do this we need a greater level of financial stability, and for that we also need fiscal consolidation.
We recognise that they suffered less from the crisis and, in particular, suffered fewer losses in terms of human resources.
Unemployment remained lower in these countries.
We advocate the strengthening of social dialogue in other Member States which have suffered more and which responded to the crisis with less flexibility than countries like Germany, the Netherlands or Austria.
We have also increased the level of social dialogue at European level.
As part of Europe 2020, we outlined a new concept for industrial policy at European level which does much more for competitiveness and the sustainability of jobs in the European Union.
Youth unemployment is very dramatic in some Member States.
Luckily, there are some Member States where youth unemployment is low, but the European average is too high.
That is why we designated 2012 the European Year for Active Ageing.
On the institutional questions concerning the Employment Guidelines - which I believe continue to be our focus and provide guidance and substance - there is a clear role for the European Parliament under Article 148 of the Treaty.
The EU budget also has to reflect 2020 priorities and we will keep Parliament informed about the preparation of the national reform programme as the country-specific recommendations develop.
I have had many opportunities in this House to discuss why we believe there is a much better chance, through a more focused system of targets and also a more focused system of reporting and implementation, of success with Europe 2020.
We have a number of balls in the air and we have to make sure that none of them falls while conducting economic policies: Europe 2020, economic governance, the single market and cohesion policy.
All of them need to be pursued in a very robust way, ensuring that all 27 Member States are involved.
I also would like to extend my special thanks to Mrs Perez for her excellent report and the very important observations and criticisms that she made.
Indeed, fiscal discipline and the raising of employment levels should go hand in hand.
Let me just mention, about energy, that there was a very successful meeting of the European Council on 4 February.
I would like to extend my very special congratulations and thanks to Lívia Járóka, who played a decisive role in the preparation of the report, and also in the adoption of this extremely important resolution, which will be very helpful for us when we work on and finalise the European framework strategy for Roma integration.
I would just like to refer to the fact that if you read carefully the conclusions of the European Council of 4 February, you will find there that everything must be in line with the Treaty.
There will be a long debate.
I have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 110(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Europe 2020 and one motion for a resolution in accordance with Rule 110(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the employment policies of the Member States.
It is crucial that the more than 100 million young people in the European Union have the necessary resources and appropriate tools to enable them to make their contribution to achieving the targets set for 2020.
The provision of high-quality higher education and support for the involvement of young people in research and development activities can ensure the success of the effort to boost economic competitiveness.
Furthermore, I think that offering employment opportunities, in addition to high-quality training, can provide much greater chances for integration on the labour market.
in writing. - (PL) The quality of human capital is of decisive importance for the success of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
In order to achieve the aims of the Europe 2020 Strategy, it will be necessary to link professional training more closely to the demands of the labour market, in order to create new training opportunities for women in the fields of science, mathematics and technology.
in writing. - The Europe 2020 Strategy should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on five EU headline targets as regards promoting employment.
A strong social protection system, investment in active labour market policies and education and training opportunities for all are essential to reduce unemployment and prevent long term exclusion.
in writing. - (RO) The Europe 2020 Strategy must be supported by the 2014-2020 financial framework.
Investments in these areas will create jobs and ensure economic and social development.
The Union's industrial policy is a key element of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
A strong cohesion policy, which is financed appropriately and covers every European region, must be a supplementary key element in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
This horizontal approach is a prerequisite for successfully achieving the targets proposed within the Europe 2020 framework, as well as for achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion.
One example of this is the EU Strategy for the Danube Region, which will contribute to its prosperity, economic and social development, as well as ensure security in the region.
Given that European citizens' main concern is still linked to job security, I think that the Europe 2020 Strategy will only succeed if social Europe becomes a reality.
in writing. - (FR) The Europe 2020 Strategy is ambitious, particularly in the field of employment, and the implementation of the Employment Guidelines is a factor in its achievement.
The indexing of pay and social benefits is an instrument which some countries have embraced in order to reduce the risk of poverty among workers, which is a growing phenomenon in Europe.
The implementation of the proposed measures conceals the real causes of the difficult economic and social situation in countries like Portugal.
This could lead to the devaluation of the EU labour force and even greater flexibility in terms of employment laws.
One year has passed since the new Europe 2020 Strategy was adopted, and the time has come to draw the first conclusions.
In order to enable the Community to retain its place in the global economy, to compete not only with the US and China, but also Brazil and India, it has to set long-term goals for itself and work towards them consistently.
in writing. - (HU) The Europe 2020 Strategy not only pointed beyond the Lisbon Strategy at the time of its formulation, but had to be expressly adjusted to the new period of crisis; what is more, it now also has to reflect upon the period of economic governance and the rescue of the euro.
in writing. - The Europe 2020 Strategy is one of the most important projects we've created, yet, there is no guarantee of its success.
in writing. - The Euro 2020 Strategy is about economic growth and employment.
We must remember that a smart energy system is the future both in terms of the environment and these jobs.
A two-speed Europe on energy will not solve energy poverty or inefficiency.
We must prevent a piecemeal system where some citizens only see the future 50 years after the others.
in writing. - Straight away after the entry of Latvia to the EU, the Latvian government decided that for the allocation of resources from EU funds it was enough to declare Latvia to be one region. (Poland is divided into 16 regions).
This situation is reflected on the labour market of Latgale.
While the unemployment rate in the capital city of Latvia (Riga) is 8-9%, in Latgale it is 20-25%.
European employment programs are inaccessible to the population of such towns as Livani, Preili, Kraslava, Ludza, Aglona and Dagda.
To avoid social tension the inhabitants of Latgale are given LVL 100 per month as a sop.
The common policy of the Latvian government has resulted in the emigration of more than 150 000 workers.
