Internal Market Scoreboard - Consumer protection - SOLVIT (debate) The first item on the agenda is the very important joint debate on three reports on the internal market and consumer protection: by Mrs Von Thun und Hohenstein, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Internal Market Scoreboard (SEC (2009)/1007 -, and by Mrs Hedh, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on consumer protection, and by Mr Buşoi, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on SOLVIT.
Nevertheless, the number of directives which have not yet been transposed in one or more Member States, in other words, market fragmentation, is still too high.
It is over 100 internal market directives.
In addition, as many as 22 directives have not been transposed two years after expiry of the deadline for this.
It can be very clearly seen that the work of the European Commission which has resulted in this publication is having a mobilising effect on the Member States.
However, 74 directives still have not been transposed in one or more European Union Member States, and this means that barriers, very harmful barriers, continue to affect citizens and entrepreneurs in the internal market.
It is also extremely important to give the citizens clear information about how the internal market operates, bearing in mind that it was precisely for them that the internal market was established 20 years ago.
To present a fuller picture of the development of the internal market, the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection is calling for the Internal Market Scoreboard, the SOLVIT Report, the Citizens Signpost Service and the Consumer Markets Scoreboard to be published at the same time.
Mr President, first and foremost, I would like to start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and others involved for the good cooperation we have enjoyed over the period in which we were working on the Consumer Markets Scoreboard.
This responsibility is, in fact, now even greater, since Article 12 of the Treaty of Lisbon states that consideration is to be given to consumer protection requirements in the drawing up and implementation of the Union's other policies and activities.
In the second Consumer Markets Scoreboard, we have seen, among other things, clear indications that consumers have more problems with services than with goods, and that prices increase less often in sectors in which consumers frequently switch supplier.
Data also shows that there are great differences between Member States and that there is room for improvement in respect of redress mechanisms.
However, surveillance in the EU is far from uniform and, according to the statistics, there are significant differences between Member States in terms of market surveillance budgets and the number of working inspectors.
Both the Commission and the national surveillance authorities must therefore increase their efforts if we are to achieve the aim of bringing about good consumer protection and ensuring that consumers feel sufficiently confident to be able to exploit all the opportunities offered by the internal market.
I would like to begin by thanking those whom I had the opportunity to work with on the SOLVIT report, the Secretariat of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, all the shadow rapporteurs, and the rest of my fellow Members who have shown their interest in this dossier and have made an important contribution to the end result.
SOLVIT is a network offering informal solutions to problems which can arise due to the inappropriate implementation of internal market legislation.
We cannot ignore the fact that SOLVIT is faced with an ever-increasing case load and, from this perspective, it is somehow a victim of its own success.
This analysis must be carried out with a view to providing additional staff only in those places where there is a genuine need.
Another focus area in this report is the promotion of the SOLVIT network, which I personally consider to be of paramount importance, and I believe that all of you will concur with me on this.
This is why I believe that we should actively involve national authorities, the European Commission, as well as members of this Parliament, in promoting SOLVIT.
The exchange of good practice between Member States with regard to promoting SOLVIT and resolving this network's operational problems is another measure which this report strongly encourages.
In fact, good ideas can be spread and applied at European level for the benefit of all.
This is why one of the proposals suggested by this report is for the SOLVIT portal to forward such cases to the website of the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions, as well as to the specialist committees in the national parliaments.
I believe that these proposals are able to improve the network's operation in terms of offering high-quality assistance to consumers and companies.
I therefore think it very important, when one is in a national parliament, or the European Parliament, when one is in the Commission, that one should have instruments to check and to evaluate the concrete, genuine implementation of the texts one is voting for.
I said quite late yesterday evening in this Chamber that, at this time of crisis and economic difficulty, we cannot afford not to make use of all potentialities.
This is why I attach importance to this scoreboard and to this SOLVIT instrument, and to their proper functioning.
I think that Mr Dalli will say exactly the same regarding the important issue of consumers.
Mrs Thun Und Hohenstein has just spoken about the good news and the not so good news concerning this scoreboard.
We are talking here about 1 521 directives or texts that enable the internal market to function, and that is a lot.
This is also why I told Mrs Thun Und Hohenstein that I agree with this idea of a forum; it is a very good idea.
We currently have 1 500 cases that have been dealt with by cooperation, by resolution, by mediation, essentially on behalf of citizens, but also on behalf of a large number of businesses.
As that has been suggested by your rapporteurs, I think that, under the control of Mr Dalli, we could make an effort, that we must make an effort to present all these documents, all these results, all these communications at the same time, in order to bring together and better coordinate these different tools that describe the implementation of the internal marketrelated texts or directives.
The central role given to consumer policy is reflected in a number of portfolios.
The Consumer Scoreboard serves as an alarm system, telling us even when the internal market is letting consumers down.
The communication of July 2009 aimed at identifying ways of making enforcement more effective, efficient and consistent throughout the European Union.
The same applies to cooperation with authorities in third countries.
To achieve this, national enforcers need sufficient staff and resources.
Both the Commission and Parliament should work together to ensure that this message rings out loud and clear across Member States.
Finally, I count on your support to ensure that sufficient funding is made available post 2013, when the current consumer programme expires, to support the ambitious consumer policy, not least the continued delivery of an enhanced scoreboard.
He may either file a petition in front of the European Parliament, which is endowed with such power under Article 194 of the treaty, he may present a complaint to the European Commission, or else he may file a complaint with SOLVIT.
Consequently, in my opinion, and on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, I appeal for greater cooperation between all institutions involved so that the citizen will know exactly where he needs to seek redress.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Internet service SOLVIT has been in operation for eight years now and has succeeded in resolving 83% of complaints from citizens and enterprises caused by the incorrect application of European law in the Member States, and it has managed to do this within 10 days.
I am delighted that our committee has also supported the proposals I presented as a shadow rapporteur; for example, the measure to increase the professional administrative staff of the SOLVIT network in Member States.
However, it is mainly a matter of promoting the network among entrepreneurs, expatriates, various associations, national parliaments and also this Parliament.
The Commission should present these analyses in annual reports and, in this way, we could of course improve the usability of the SOLVIT network.
I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the work they have carried out.
The second political principle is that we must guarantee a high level of protection of the rights of both consumers and workers.
It means ensuring that we preserve our very high level of common rights in these areas.
We therefore reject this concept, because it is the wrong one.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me say that I am very pleased to see this exchange regarding the internal market and consumer protection entered as a priority debate this morning.
In the context of economic crisis, Mr Barnier, the internal market is an asset that we really must develop.
Within this internal market, of course, it is consumption which is perhaps the most important driver that we need to support in the very short term.
I would like to address a very clear message to the Commission.
We expect consumers' interests to be genuinely taken into account in all the European Union's policies, in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to congratulate our fellow Member, Mrs Hedh, on her very complete report.
It is therefore all the more important for us in Parliament to do our utmost to boost confidence in the internal market.
Consumer policy is, of course, a key element in achieving this.
Consumer policy providing a high level of consumer protection can increase and safeguard people's confidence in the internal market.
We therefore need to work harder in this area.
You are, of course, aware that our group, too, was critical of the fact that there is no longer a single commissioner responsible for consumer policy, because the message sent out by Mrs Kuneva was a very positive one.
Of course, that will also play a very important part in increasing the confidence of citizens.
SOLVIT is a very important instrument in this regard.
SOLVIT can provide an important and key addition in this respect.
In this regard, you can count on our support.
To summarise once again, I think that, overall, these reports send out a very important and very positive signal.
It is an extremely significant process, particularly at a time of sluggishness in the economy and in view of the economic crisis we are facing in Europe.
I would like, for this reason, to congratulate the Bureau of the European Parliament for realising the importance of the matter and deciding to make the debate on these three reports a priority debate for this sitting of Parliament.
After all, the Internal Market Scoreboard, the Consumer Markets Scoreboard, the SOLVIT Report and the Citizens Signpost Service are all, in fact, about the same thing, and we should receive them at the same time.
Finally, I would like to express support for the two main proposals contained in the Thun report.
The economic crisis proves that we need to be guided by the particular conditions in each state and not by the dogmatic application of a single standard, namely that of unadulterated competition.
The only policy that can consolidate and raise the level of consumer protection is one that revolves around man and his prosperity and not around increasing competition.
The Hedh report attaches importance to the point of view of European citizens, who experience the pros and cons of the internal market every day, and emphasises the wisdom of appointing, in 2007, a Commissioner for Consumer Affairs.
The Thun Und Hohenstein report criticises certain attitudes adopted in the past and calls for responsibility to be shared among Member States and the Commission.
The Buşoi report concerns the SOLVIT network, created by the European Commission to give citizens and businesses free help in asserting their rights within the Union, particularly in cases of dispute.
As legislators, our primary concern must be citizens and consumers. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SOLVIT can and should make a substantial contribution to greater transparency in the enforcement and assertion of personal and civil rights in the internal market.
There were many points on which we were in total agreement, and others I hope we can work on in the future: specifically, the European consumer scoreboard promoted by the European Commission, a very important instrument that nonetheless, in my view, still does not provide standardised data to enable people to make clear decisions.
We must also consider, including in this report, the great burden put upon consumers but, in my view and on behalf of the group, I believe that a better balance is necessary in the future, since European citizens are not just consumers but also workers in companies that operate in the internal market.
We must therefore always consider the balance that must exist between those who provide services and provide goods and consumers themselves, since this is our objective.
An informed consumer is a free consumer - so any initiative to provide additional information is welcome - but we said no to school schemes because we must not take the place of the consumer when it comes to exercising their own freedom of choice and we believe that parents should be the first point of reference for young children in terms of what should be their consumer education.
Moreover, parents also have control over their children's consumption, especially when they are young.
The first is the need to adopt a more qualitative approach in respect of the implementation of the Internal Market Scoreboard, enabling the causes of the transposition deficit to be identified.
The second aspect I focused on is the need to strengthen dialogue between the Commission and the Member States throughout the transposition period.
The report does, however, pose a problem on one point: this relates to paragraph 10, which did not initially appear in Mrs Thun Und Hohenstein's draft report.
We could not agree to it in those circumstances. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, Commissioner Dalli, the fact that we are discussing three own-initiative reports on consumer protection and the internal market today shows that, despite all of our successes in these areas, there is still much that is in need of improvement.
Admittedly, the Member States' transposition of the internal market directives has, on average, greatly improved, but seven Member States have failed to meet the target set by the Commission of reducing the transposition deficit for the internal market directives to 1%.
Thus, in the event of treaty infringements by Member States, it takes, on average, 18 months - in other words, still far too long - for them to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice.
This is why it is important for SOLVIT to be developed further.
All Member States must ultimately provide the financial resources and adequately trained staff for the SOLVIT centres.
The ALDE Group calls emphatically for people to be made more aware of SOLVIT in the Member States in order to facilitate the cross-border sale of their products and services.
I think this is a really significant development that all committees in this Parliament need to engage with.
I want particularly to thank all the coordinators on the committee who have worked with me to move forward in the work that we are doing and also to engage national parliaments, to have forums of national parliaments.
I very much hope, as both Commissioners indicated, that we would have a wider internal market forum, but we would like to have your reports brought together so this can become an annual event in Parliament for this really important subject.
The Commission intends to carry out in-depth analysis of all so-called problematic sectors identified in the Consumer Markets Scoreboard.
However well-intentioned these proposals are - and I am sure they are - yet again, this is an EU solution desperately looking for a problem. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I wholeheartedly endorse the sensible contributions made by my fellow Members - with the exception of the last one - and I would therefore like to come straight to the most important points.
This requires a balance, which Parliament needs to find in cooperation with the Commission.
Secondly, the report by Mrs Hedh, which, like all reports that we debate here, has been added to superbly by the shadow rapporteurs, shows that we need to attach just as much importance to consumer confidence as to the confidence of entrepreneurs.
I would like to put on record and pay tribute to all those who work in Member State SOLVIT centres.
The way the SOLVIT centre works in the UK is a model of best practice because it tries and uses a SOLVIT+ model, going further in helping businesses and individuals who contact them with a problem.
It is a day on which we can all agree that these scoreboards are working extremely well.
There really is a great need to bring SOLVIT into focus much more than is happening at present - which brings me to my last point, which concerns emphasising that this is a communication issue, as is also made clear in the report.
In general, I would like to say on behalf of my group that I am really pleased to be able to lend this report our wholehearted support, and naturally I hope that the Commission - and I gather ... (The President cut off the speaker) (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying something that has not been said here in this Chamber, and that is that we should surely thank Commissioner Kuneva.
If we are to take this task seriously, we need to make the internal market a domestic one.
The Commission must highlight all obstacles and propose measures for their removal.
We therefore need to transpose the Small Business Act in all Member States as quickly as possible.
I would like, moreover, to congratulate our rapporteurs on their work and, more specifically, to mention the SOLVIT network.
The increased number of cases would consequently be very tricky to manage for the sole trainee who, currently in 2010, is in charge of the SOLVIT network in France, a country which, it is true, has only 60 million inhabitants and which is only the second Member State in the EU from the point of view of the number of cases submitted in 2009.
I would therefore ask the Commission and the Member States to grant real financial and human resources and to conduct major information campaigns, aimed especially at businesses, which submitted no more cases in 2009 than in 2004. (SV) Mr President, Commissioners, I would like to thank the rapporteurs concerned for their constructive work.
It is therefore important that the EU has a truly European services sector in which entrepreneurs and consumers can act freely not just nationally, but in the internal market.
It is also important to increase the efficiency of national SOLVIT centres by providing competent civil servants and by subsidising SOLVIT at European level. (PL) I warmly congratulate all the rapporteurs, because the reports for which they are responsible have two very important features.
The second great quality of these reports is that they are generally accepted.
I would like to draw attention to several specific matters.
If we managed to build such a mechanism, we would also not need to worry about the future of the new market. (DE) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this joint debate this morning and the high quality of all three reports indicates the high priority given to internal market and consumer policy in Europe.
I would like to thank all three rapporteurs and the many shadow rapporteurs and fellow Members who have produced this joint work.
I have heard that in Germany, only one in two 14 to 15 year olds understands the meaning of inflation.
I think that we need to focus more on the problems in the banking and financial services sector as there are currently large differences in the single market with regard to the fees paid for these services.
If a Member State is not transposing EU legislation correctly, or is adding more regulation onto directives, then is it the fault of the EU or the Member State?
Since SOLVIT was established in 2002, its workload has been growing exponentially year on year, so much so that in 2008, there was an increase of 22% of cases coming before it, leading to 1 000 cases, and with an 88% resolution saving EUR 32.6 million.
The fact that there is agreement makes me optimistic about the future of the internal market.
I should like to highlight two points: the first point has to do with paragraph 10 of the Thun report.
Created in 2002, this network saw its workload increase by 22% in 2008.
These new measures would make it possible to help European citizens and businesses to assert their rights, especially with regard to the recognition of qualifications and of their social and residence entitlements.
I therefore call on the Member States to transpose all the European directives and make citizens and businesses aware of their rights within the internal market through national forms of media and information campaigns.
To conclude, on behalf of my political group within the Committee on Petitions, I hope that cooperation between SOLVIT and our parliamentary committee will be strengthened so as to facilitate the work of these two bodies. (PL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their very good reports.
On the one hand, we need proper implementation of the law by Member States and we need support instruments which function well, such as SOLVIT, but we also need deeper (...). (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, I can only endorse the conclusions in the report by our fellow Member, Mrs Hedh, especially with regard to the need for an active consumer policy aimed specifically at protecting vulnerable consumers and those on low incomes.
The second one relates to business directories.
Such an agency could help to compile data, to prepare studies on consumer behaviour and, of course, it could also act as a watchdog in respect of the Commission's work and in respect of Parliament's work on consumer issues.
I agree with this assessment of the quality of the debate and the quality of all the constructive, critical speeches and proposals that have been made on the implementation and evaluation, on the monitoring of these 1 500 - I repeat, for all those listening to us - 1 500 directives or texts which regulate this large European market.
This is why I thank Mrs Thun Und Hohenstein once more for her high quality report on the scoreboard published by the European Commission.
Furthermore, I also heard Mrs Handzlik say that we were not talking enough about the internal market.
There are other good ideas in Mrs Thun Und Hohenstein's report: the partnership with Member States and the creation of this internal market forum, which I support.
Incidentally, perhaps we could pull together other initiatives today concerning some of the same matters we are covering with Mr Dalli, such as the implementation or highlighting and promotion of the SOLVIT network, and get things done at the same time.
This is my way of doing politics and, from that point of view, I believe that the scoreboard, the evaluation, must enable us not only to make a quantitative evaluation - how many directives are transposed - but also a qualitative one.
We will work very quickly on this SOLVIT.EU site with my departments in conjunction with another project relating to the Your Europe site.
SOLVIT is working well, but it could work better.
Once again, these tools are necessary in order to check properly how the internal market is functioning; this market, I say in turn, is not complete.
I will endeavour to do this with my 12 or 15 colleagues in the College who are responsible, one way or another, for applying the directives on the internal market.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, like my colleague, Michel Barnier, I find it very heartening to be part of such a lively debate and to hear such expert views relating to consumer issues.
This augurs well for our working together in a true spirit of partnership and achieving our objective to put consumers first.
The consumer scoreboard is a tool which enables us to detect failures in the market and allows us to move to a further study on how to address such failures.
On the last point raised about a European consumer agency, it must be emphasised that enforcement is the exclusive obligation of the Member States and they need to provide adequate resources for its proper functioning.
I very much look forward to making serious and sustained progress with you over the time I am responsible for this sector.
Above all, I would like to thank everyone for this fascinating debate, for the lively reactions and the serious reflections.
The presence and statements of both Commissioners and the presence of numerous Commission staff show that this new Parliament and this new Commission are going to work together closely and well on the matter of further development of the common market.
The common market is one of the greatest achievements of the European Union, and I would like to express my thanks for the positive reactions to the proposals which I have included in my report.
This proposal was adopted by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection as long ago as 2003 and is part of the internal market strategy.
After all, a moment ago, we heard here from the Commissioner that the European Commission evaluates new directives from the social, economic and ecological point of view, and so there is no need to panic.
Mr President, I have listened with interest to all the intelligent and interesting contributions to this debate.
In addition, we must call upon the Member States to consult the consumer organisations as much as possible at all stages of the decision-making process where consumer policy is concerned.
Finally, the scoreboard should not just be used to bring about better consumer policy, but rather must influence all policy areas that are of significance for consumers and ensure that consumer issues are integrated into all EU policy to a greater extent.
Furthermore, the scoreboard should stimulate a more general discussion of consumer policy issues, both at EU level and at national level.
I wish to thank Commissioner Barnier and the fellow Members who provided positive feedback, not only on my first report, but on the SOLVIT network itself as well.
I think that the outcome which we have reached, both in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Petitions, is satisfactory.
Another factor which is just as important is for SOLVIT staff to be able to receive legal assistance, both from officials working in public administrations and from the European Commission, given the degree of complexity of the cases which are being reported to SOLVIT.
This is why I am asking all groups to vote for this report.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - It is unbelievable that, in two essential areas such as health and consumer protection, in Malta and Gozo, the official structures are completely passive in spite of blatant transgressions.
I will give the following examples: Galvus 50 mg (diabetic pills) Price in Malta for a box of 28: EUR 27.84 Price in Brussels for a box of 180: EUR 135.13 For 180 pills, the price in Malta is EUR 178.97 as compared to EUR 135.13 in Brussels.
Tegretol 200 mg Price in Malta for a box of 50: EUR 17.00 Price in Brussels for a box of 50: EUR 7.08 Zocor 20 mg Price in Malta for a box of 28: EUR 34.94 Price in Brussels for a box of 84: EUR 21.71 For 84 pills, the price in Malta is EUR 104.82 as compared to EUR 21.71 in Brussels.
The EU prides itself on health and consumer protection but in the Maltese Islands, the price of medications has spiralled for no justifiable reason.
I welcome the challenge to Member States to adopt essential measures, including the allocation of resources to secure the functioning of cross-border networks of electronic information systems for the timely exchange of information, especially for hazardous non-food products (RAPEX) and food and fodder (RASFF), or the network for cooperation in the area of consumer protection (CPC).
These systems still do not function properly and cannot be relied on in all Member States.
Member States and the European Commission must ensure that European citizens, the business sector and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises which need support to be able to make full use of the facilities offered by the internal market, have access to resources which can provide information and a rapid solution.
Furthermore, the SOLVIT centres require additional resources.
Consumer protection in the European Union must be designed in such a way that citizens can take advantage, within the internal market, of a wide choice of high-quality products and services, while at the same time having confidence that their rights as consumers are protected and that they can exercise them effectively if the need arises.
On this basis, I support the rapporteur's suggestions that the European Commission should observe closely the adoption and implementation of EU consumer rights in the Member States and help them with this in every way.
I think that the European Union should consider the idea of creating a European consumer protection office which could function as a coordinating central office dealing specifically with the resolution of cross-border incidents, in order to support and complement the relevant consumer protection offices in the Member States in implementing and enforcing EU consumer protection regulations.
