On the other side, the reports also highlight shortcomings, in particular, in the areas of justice, freedom of expression and association.
Political dialogue with Tunisia has been continuous on all the subjects covered by the action plan, which are addressed in 10 subcommittees and in working groups.
On 1 January 2008, Tunisia became the first southern Mediterranean country to have a free trade area with the EU for industrial products, two years in advance of the date foreseen.
The EU is Tunisia's first trading partner: 72.5% of its imports come from the EU and the EU is the destination for 75% of its exports.
Negotiations have also been launched on the gradual liberalisation of trade in services and the right of establishment, as well as on agriculture and fishery products.
The conclusion of these negotiations, together with approximation of the relevant legislation, will mark a new stage in relations between the EU and Tunisia and progress towards the integration of the Tunisian economy in the EU single market.
Plans are afoot for talks, to help us to achieve progress in what are very sensitive and important issues for us in the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we had to give an opinion on the existing relations between the European Union and Tunisia, it could only be a positive one, including as regards the stabilisation of the region.
It is true that important progress has been made in economic terms, and there are also encouraging signs from a social point of view.
Tunisia has made some important commitments in the context of the Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan on democracy, governance and human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by both thanking and congratulating the Commissioner for the position taken by the Commission on this matter.
Tunisia has achieved substantial progress, which has resulted in a very high standard of development with socio-economic results acknowledged by international institutions.
The public authorities in Tunisia have the capacity to provide the people with a package of basic services, services that other countries in the region have not yet been able to implement, and I believe that it is important to point this out, too.
They are human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
I repeat, these date back to Bourguiba.
All along, I have defended human rights, but human rights are the same all over the world.
On 25 October, Mr Ben Ali was re-elected for a fifth term, gaining more than 89% of the vote.
However, we could also mention Zouhair Makhlouf and Fahem Boukadous, one of whom was convicted for talking about the environmental conditions in his country, and the other for taking part in workers' demonstrations in his country.
Yes, this is the social situation in Tunisia.
Human rights defenders such as Kamel Jendoubi, Sihem Bensedrine, Sana Ben Achour, and Kemais Chamari are victims of a disgraceful press campaign.
Students are being arrested and arbitrarily convicted, as are others.
Tunisia must honour its commitments in relation to democracy and human rights.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, Tunisia's situation is overall a positive one it seems.
Law No 108 bans the hijab, which goes much further than anybody else has proposed.
But I have seen some figures which indicate that EUR 70 million is to be spent on key projects in the EU neighbourhood scheme.
Tunisia, which receives EUR 80 million per year in financial aid, is a shining example of successful development policy.
The Tunisian Republic is consequently expected to play a constructive part in the deliberations with regard to the EuroMed Roadmap for trade beyond 2010 and the cooperation with the Maghreb countries.
That is a common problem in connection with our development and association aid.
In political terms, it could be said that Tunisia is a country in which democracy is still relatively young; however, the action plan set out appears to be in line with the European Union's expectations.
The emergence of new parties and a reasonable female presence in parliament following the elections at the end of October 2009 confirm that significant progress has been made in terms of democratic participation.
Tunisia's central role in the Mediterranean and the modernisation process under way in that country require a serious and balanced approach which results in the unconditional affirmation of the values upheld by the European Union.
Many countries would be envious of these statistics. (FR) Mr President, for my part, I would like to add my voice to those who have already spoken to denounce the particularly worrying situation in which the journalist and writer Taoufik Ben Brik finds himself in Tunisia.
On the contrary, I believe it is crucial for the EU to react quickly and firmly by demanding the release of Taoufik Ben Brik and other prisoners of conscience.
There has been an alarming decline in the human rights situation in Tunisia.
It is affecting Europe's cooperation with the country, and a tangible improvement in this situation represents one of the conditions for the opening of negotiations on an advanced status for the EU-Tunisia partnership. (DE) Mr President, we have a good foundation for our cooperation with Tunisia.
Mrs Kroes said that we are talking about integrating the Tunisian economy into the single market.
That is really as far as we can go with a country outside the EU, and therefore this forms a stable foundation.
I, personally, am in talks with our colleagues, who are here in the gallery, and my feeling is that we should talk about everything.
In all our countries, in the countries of Europe, all these political opinions coexist with freedom of the press, and this is what makes the difference, in fact, because, in Tunisia, such freedom exists, but it is limited, and there are in fact journalists who are in difficulty.
The following question then arises: could a rapprochement with the European Union increase this freedom or not?
Moreover, there is a long way to go before these commitments are honoured, judging from the fate - as already mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Guillaume - of the independent journalist Taoufik Ben Brik, who has been in prison since last October, following a trial in which his lawyers and the procedure were in complete violation of the law.
The debate on this issue, as it appears in Tunisia, is crucial and relevant.
Real progress in the field of human rights is now crucial.
There are problems, but for Heaven's sake let us not to look at these countries, countries which are trying to make progress, through the prism of Western countries, because if we were to use that parameter, a parameter which someone is using this morning with regard to Tunisia, then certain European countries would probably be denied entry into the European Union, because the violence and denial of freedom which exists there is on a greater scale than in Tunisia.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am grateful to the honourable Members for being so open and straightforward and for making their remarks in such a way that, although certain groups have differing approaches, the emphasis is on how we can find a solution.
I am sure that Louis Michel can speak for himself, but we were on the same team in a former life, so to say, so I know what line he takes on this issue.
There is no doubt about that, for human rights and freedom of speech are indeed a very important and essential part of any agreement.
We are aware that it is an important ally of the EU in the region and has achieved considerable progress in terms of economic and social modernisation.
