Fundamental rights in the European Union (2009) - Effective implementation after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Gál, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union (2009) - effective implementation after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon brought with it the vision and idea of a strong Europe in respect of Community powers.
The aim of the report is to offer a new and comprehensive approach in the protection of fundamental rights.
A similar pillar of the Community legal system will be our accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, a process that is currently under way, but the system of human rights guarantees enshrined in the Member States' own legal systems will remain a similar pillar.
Thus, in this report, we reviewed what Parliament expects from these institutions.
The system of protection of fundamental rights must be comprehensible, accessible and effectively useful, as the entire structure is only worth as much as the citizens of the EU can assert from it.
In achieving these goals, the aforementioned institutions and the Member States must assume a balancing role to ensure that the EU can increase its credibility in the eyes of the citizens.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the debate today on the fundamental rights situation in the European Union is very important, not only because it comes 10 years after the proclamation of the charter - the anniversary of the charter was at the beginning of this month - but also because it is the first discussion in Parliament dedicated to that which the rapporteur, Ms Gál, calls the 'new post-Lisbon fundamental rights architecture'.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for their very valuable contribute to this debate.
The charter must be our compass and we must lead by example, in particular, when we legislate.
This applies to the Commission's internal preparation work and to adoption by the European Parliament and the Council, as well as to the application of the new rules by the Member States.
We also have to see how the charter is applied when Member States implement EU law.
Recently, we also had a discussion about the disabled, and it is clear that in that field, too, we are applying the United Nations Convention in the Member States and at European Union level.
The rapporteur spoke about the Agency for Fundamental Rights, which has a key role to play in providing us with comparable and reliable data on the situation in the 27 Member States in areas where the EU can act.
To make this possible, on 2 December, the Commission adopted a proposal to amend the multiannual framework, which lists the thematic areas in which the agency can work.
When we prepare our first annual report on the application of the charter in spring 2011, I will pay particular attention to the European Parliament's report, and to Parliament's other fundamental rights activities.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Kinga Gál for her report and, in particular, for the focus she placed on such an important subject, that is, the Charter of Fundamental Rights for the European Union and its implementation.
A case in point would be the rights that are connected to immigration issues, which are of considerable importance, yet are not always fundamental rights.
Therefore, to conclude, I believe that we need fundamental rights, yet at the same time, we must ensure that they are both logical and realistic.
Thirdly, I would like to express my satisfaction over the fact that the report calls on EU Member States and institutions to redouble their efforts on raising public awareness of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, tomorrow afternoon, we will be able to share our thoughts on the human rights situation in the world, but this morning, we are focusing on the state of play as regards these rights in the European Union.
The Commission has sidestepped the non-discrimination issue on the basis of Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but it cannot be so half-hearted in future, with the ratification, by the Union, of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I am delighted to see the Union's commitment to seeing this through.
Mr President, now that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has become legally binding in Europe, we are dealing with two systems for the protection of human rights which are, to a certain extent, in competition with one another.
One of these systems is based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the case-law of the Court of Justice, and the other is based on the European Convention on Human Rights and the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights must not be interpreted in such a way that it results in the presumption of new competences for the European Union.
Article 51 states this very clearly, but I think it is worth reminding everyone, particularly the Members of this House, that issues relating to marital law, criminal law and the legal protection of unborn life cannot be regulated at EU level, either directly or by the actions of any court or tribunal.
Mr President, I should like, in turn, to thank our rapporteur for her willingness to listen and for her work, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to the quality of this report.
The Treaty, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and, soon, accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, will provide us with new tools in this area and will enable the European Union and its Members to reach a new stage.
Indivisible, meaning that all the human rights enshrined in the Charter, but also in the European Convention, and in all the European and international conventions that stem from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, have the same value, whatever they may be.
The right to live in dignity is just as important as religious freedom for instance.
So yes, this is a fundamental issue; the European Union's credibility and the future of its foreign policy are at stake. (HU) Mr President, as a Hungarian and a female politician, I am proud that it was a Hungarian female Member, Mrs Kinga Gál, who created with considerable effort this very significant work on a better assertion of human rights, and brought it before the European Union.
What I find lacking, however, is an emphasis on traditional civil and political liberties, and there is hardly anyone in a better position here in the EU than we, Hungarians, to emphasise that in the European Union, the problem does not only lie with discrimination against minorities or the integration of the Roma when it comes to human rights, but with the freedom of expression, assembly and speech, and nothing illustrates this better than the situation in Hungary between 2002 and 2010.
On the other hand, if we are able to speak of an increased possibility to assert human rights in the European Union at all, how could we better avoid incidents like the one where people were shot in the eye in Hungary in 2006, particularly if the Vice-President of the LIBE Committee is still an individual who, at that time, was a member of a government that had people shot in the eye? (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one can only remark favourably on a report such as the one so ably put together by the rapporteur, Mrs Gál, which has the strong point of describing the situation regarding the implementation of fundamental rights both accurately and in detail.
If you are in a same-sex partnership or a civil partnership or a marriage, you can be discriminated against by a Member State on the precept of the concept of subsidiarity.
I was very surprised by this judgment and I would very much like to know the Commissioner's point of view on this matter, in the context of the lasting impact of the fundamental rights guaranteed in the Charter on current and future EU legislation. (SL) Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mrs Gál, on preparing a good report.
It is true that we have a new situation in the European Union as far as the protection of human rights is concerned.
We may have highlighted many third generation rights, as they are called, in this report, but we have forgotten some issues, such as returning property that was confiscated by totalitarian regimes to its owners or giving a dignified burial to the many people who were brutally killed in Central and Eastern Europe in 1945 and only given makeshift graves.
In some Member States, the social tensions that have arisen in the wake of the crisis have brought about a restriction of democratic rights, instead of steps having been taken in this direction.
We believe that the creation of the portfolio of a Commissioner for fundamental rights is an important step, and we call on Mrs Reding to regularly monitor the Member States and call attention to cases where fundamental rights and the basic principles of democracy are violated, in order to ensure that these are not only mandatory for candidate countries before their accession, but also later on, as the failure to do so would further undermine the credibility of the EU. (RO) Mr President, let me begin by congratulating Kinga Gál for her report.
The European Union's accession to the Convention will ensure that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights is also applied to the actions taken by the EU as an institution and by a Member State which applies EU legislation.
I therefore call once again for a European directive on violence against women, including sexual and reproductive violence, as practised by certain Member States with the full sanction of domestic law. (HU) Mr President, the forward-looking part of the report has already been pointed out by many of my fellow Members.
The report is based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If the European Union has any serious shortcomings in this area, it is in the need to restore the original meaning of the word 'discrimination', because it is no longer understood either by human rights activists or sometimes even by our own EU Agency for Fundamental Rights.
I do not see a political will in the European Commission to enforce these rights and to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States.
In the upcoming period, she will be faced with a considerable challenge, as the Hungarian Government assuming the EU Presidency is committing serious infringements of fundamental rights.
This government is violating fundamental rights, and you, Mrs Reding, must have the courage to initiate an infringement procedure. (IT) Mr President, notwithstanding the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union and the national constitutions, serious violations of human rights persist on a daily basis in the European Union and in the Member States.
I also supported the incentive to use Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union to address human rights violations and to bolster the mandate of the Agency for Fundamental Rights.
The gender pay gap in the EU stands at about 18%.
Urgent measures are therefore needed to combat these discriminatory situations. (DE) Mr President, accession on the part of the EU to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms also conceals the risk that the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) will be able to pass judgment on any EU legal act; the judges of the European Court of Justice have already warned against taking this step.
We need an effective rights protection system, and thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon, we will now be able to establish one.
As you can tell, we are gradually moving towards this new policy, and I think that, between us - the Commission, the Council and Parliament - we should ensure that this annual report on the application of the Charter, which I will submit on behalf of the Commission and which Parliament will criticise or approve, is a great moment of truth and an opportunity to take a close look at matters.
However, I also consider it symbolic that we will debate on and adopt the report on the situation of human rights in the world tomorrow.
I have voted in favour of Kinga Gál's initiative.
I offer my total support and the gratitude of 335 000 people.
The Lisbon Treaty has redefined competences and responsibilities in many fields and, among them, made the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding.
The European Parliament has been acting as watchdog of fundamental rights and the Lisbon Treaty has consolidated the fact.
While we are critical of human rights violations around the world, we must apply the same scrutiny to what is going on within the borders of the European Union.
The work ahead of us remains vast, but I am more than sure that consistent work on upholding fundamental rights in the EU will help us prevail.
In very few cases do we call ourselves to account in connection with these ideals, which are an integral part of the European spirit, and which have been legally binding for a year now thanks to the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
