Honourable Members, I asked for this debate to be able to update this House on the situation in Haiti following the terrible earthquake of 12 January.
Many European citizens have also lost their lives, and around 1 000 are still unaccounted for.
I will travel to the United States this week to follow up on this and other issues with the United States Administration, and with the UN Secretary-General and others in New York.
It welcomed the Commission's preliminary commitment for immediate humanitarian assistance of EUR 30 million, in addition to EUR 92 million in preliminary commitments by Member States.
It welcomed the Commission's preliminary commitment of EUR 100 million for early non-humanitarian assistance, for instance, in rehabilitation and reconstruction, and it took note of the Commission's preliminary indication that EUR 200 million would be available for longer-term responses.
The Foreign Affairs Council will meet again next Monday.
The people of Haiti - and our own people - expect a swift, effective and coordinated response.
Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world.
It is a country in a chronically fragile situation whose existing basic functions and capacities have been very seriously disrupted.
That is why the High Representative, Cathy Ashton, called for this extraordinary Council meeting, which was a very useful tool in addressing the problem.
We are working with teams from OCHA, a United Nations organisation, and are in constant contact with John Holmes, the UN Emergency Relief Coordinator.
The second point is to build, or rebuild, the basic state capacity.
The Council welcomes the fact that we will urgently send a team of EU experts with the specific task of assessing the most critical needs of the Haitian state and civil administration in order to provide technical assistance.
This should be designed to ensure a proper division of labour among EU institutions and Member States and to ensure a linked relief rehabilitation and development approach, with a sustained and seamless transition between immediate relief and post-emergency response.
We have been calling on all the Member States to fully engage in these efforts, and to turn into actions all our commitments for coordination and aid effectiveness.
As the High Representative has already outlined, the European Commission will make a major contribution, first of all in terms of humanitarian aid - EUR 30 million, of which the largest part - EUR 22 million to be exact - is completely fresh money that comes on top of the already existing humanitarian engagements we have with Haiti.
Now one is hearing figures in the region of USD 10 billion.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I am sure the House would like to remember the missing UN and EU staff and all of those who are missing and suffering in Haiti at this time.
To use his own terms, the nature of the impact is unprecedented, and I think that that is a fair point to make in a country of this kind, which is why - and I mention this just in passing - I really do think that the European Union has to be more visible.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, our thoughts today are with the people of Haiti in their tragedy, and I am sure all Members will want to send their condolences to the people of Haiti.
It is a tragedy but, as Gay Mitchell has said, it is a tragedy in a country where 75% of people already live below the poverty line.
High Representative, I want to thank you for the work you have done in pulling together a quick EU response on this matter.
Haiti owes USD 890 million to the international creditors and a large part of that is to the IMF.
The IMF has given Haiti a USD 100 million loan.
There is no point impoverishing this country for another 100 years.
It is clear that the country needs massive international support immediately.
I hope that you, Mrs Ashton, and Commissioner De Gucht, work strongly towards this aim in the respective visits to the United States, Haiti and elsewhere later this week.
The long-term development of the poorest nation in the western hemisphere must become a priority.
The allocation of EUR 200 million in European Union aid to help Haiti rebuild in the long term is a positive start, but, when the cameras have left and the world's attention is turned elsewhere, the European Union, as a global leader, must act and live up to its responsibility.
The European Union has announced the amount of aid that it will release for Haiti, and the Member States have done the same.
We are talking about EUR 130 million in the short term, and EUR 200 million for long-term needs.
I would like to compare these figures to other figures, to the USD 155 billion that the banks of the City and Wall Street are getting ready to pay to a few thousand people who work in the banks.
Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to the victims of Haiti to help them rebuild a country that was devastated even before a natural disaster turned it completely on its head. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, our hearts and minds go out to the people of Haiti in their hour of suffering.
I commend Baroness Ashton and Karel De Gucht for what they have already said has happened and is being done.
I was present at the tsunami which hit Sri Lanka and then later Indonesia.
Our Parliament should declare itself in favour of the immediate and unconditional cancellation of this entire debt.
Our group would like the conference that will soon take place in Montreal to make effective preparations for an international conference on the repair, reconstruction and sustainable development of Haiti with the people of Haiti.
This reconstruction must be placed under the auspices of the United Nations, so that the Haitian people can recover their economic and political sovereignty.
I am nevertheless pleased with the rapid reaction of the European Commission and the Member States and with the commitment they have made to earmark a massive aid package of EUR 429 million for the emergency humanitarian aid effort and the reconstruction of Haiti.
A real organisation with civil protection capacities is essential, and for this reason, I would remind you of Mr Barnier's proposal, which dates from 2006 and proposes the creation of a European civil protection force; it is ready and just has to be applied.
Within a matter of days, the United States has assumed a dominant role in rescue and coordination matters.
It is essential to recall the role of central and global coordination played by OCHA, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, which is best placed to carry out this coordination.
The European Union must participate in this twin emergency and reconstruction effort.
It is in the coming days and months that we will have to act in an effective and determined manner.
This is the most important aspect from the point of view of recovery once we have restored conditions of security and public order, which are essential for any coordinated action in a country in which everything has been damaged by the earthquake, including its institutional structures.
And speaking on behalf of my colleagues in the European Conservatives faction, and on behalf of my fellow citizens in the Czech Republic, I would like to express sympathy and compassion for all the victims and those who are suffering.
It distantly reminds me of a four-headed dragon.
This is a time for all the humanitarian aid, cooperation and support for reconstruction that the people of Haiti deserve, through their dignity and courage.
We should remember that Haiti was the place where 400 000 Africans, enslaved and trafficked by Europeans, revolted against slavery and brought about the first great social revolution on the American continent.
At the Montreal conference to be held on 25 January, the EU must speak with one voice and request single, coordinated management of the humanitarian action; otherwise, we risk chaos and the aid going to waste, including these enormous and valuable amounts mentioned today by the Commission, and the aid from the Member States.
I will finish with a question: are we prepared, internationally, to reduce or cancel Haiti's debt? (RO) The whole world is indeed at this moment showing solidarity and compassion to the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Haiti, highlighting once again the need to act promptly and in a coordinated manner in such situations.
Loss limitation now depends on how effective intervention is and, as has already been mentioned here, the way in which international agencies and organisations, along with the EU's Department for Humanitarian Aid, have acted is exemplary, not forgetting the individual gestures by Member States.
I believe that a European Union rapid intervention operational force must be created because the situation in Haiti demonstrates to us the need to maintain public order and ensure the population's safety, in addition to the assistance required by the survivors.
However, in a situation where UN forces are insufficient or have been overtaken by events, the European Union should take further involvement, especially as it enjoys a large amount of credibility in the region.
In 2006, Mr Barnier proposed the creation of a European civil protection force, with Member States contributing on a voluntary basis, without having to wait for hypothetical unanimity from the 27, by pooling existing national civil protection units, by training them together with joint rescue techniques, joint communication methods and a joint headquarters.
I therefore want to congratulate the Council, the Commission and the High Representative on the action that they have taken.
The earthquake, moreover, has struck the poorest country in the western hemisphere, where 80% of the population live below the poverty line and 54% live in absolute poverty.
I would therefore like to call upon the High Representative for Foreign Affairs to examine actions intended to allow Haitian children up to the age of 10 to be taken in and looked after by European countries.
Lady Ashton, Europe can take them in and offer them adequate living conditions; I mean for a limited period, until the conditions are adequate for them to return to their own country.
It is true that these problems exist and we need to solve them as soon as possible.
National governments have already sent thousands of men and women to help the Haitians and have allocated millions of euros in aid.
The pledge recently made by the Commission and the Member States to earmark almost EUR 500 million is certainly a big and significant step in this direction, and we should all stand behind it. (ES) Firstly, I would like to extend my condolences and solidarity to the people of Haiti, who have been so hard hit by this catastrophe.
Now is the time for humanitarian aid, but very soon the time will come to rebuild, promote development and offer assistance to governability and institutionality.
The United States' response has been commendable, the United Nations' slightly less so, but I have to agree with everything that has been said.
We are not being political in this, Mr Cashman: our response has been less than adequate.
What it is useful to understand from the High Representative and from the Commission is how the MIC and the Situation Centre are responding, in practice, in the face of such onerous tasks and tests, how their coordination is working, and whether their instruments and resources are adequate.
This will also help us at a later date when we will have to consider the adequacy of these instruments and the capacity of consular protection, but now is not the time for these debates.
Now is the time for action and commitment, and we fully support the action being taken by the High Representative. (SL) I, too, would like to express my sympathy for the events in Haiti, as well as congratulate the European Commission and European institutions for their relatively appropriate response.
EU-FAST, the initiative launched by Mr Verhofstadt in 2003, or EuropeAid, launched by Mr Barnier in 2006 - the paternity ultimately does not matter - the idea is to be able to act quickly, to be ready together. (FI) Mr President, I find it odd that people here have spoken of visibility and have doubted the motives of the United States of America, because right now help is needed.
I put the question very early to the United Nations on the ground, and to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, where best my efforts could be.
The devastation that happened on the ground had enormous impact on the United Nations, which has lost many members of their senior staff, and on NGOs, which have been unable to respond as quickly as they would simply because people of theirs have died.
That is why I am going not only to the United States to see Secretary of State Clinton but also to the United Nations to talk with the Secretary-General and the key people about what we can now do to pull together for the future because that, as you say, will be of enormous importance.
As honourable Members have said, this is a country where over 70% of people were already living below the poverty line.
The capacities of the Haitian Government are not functioning.
It is, as you said, already one of the poorest countries in the world, and because we need to rebuild that infrastructure, I share your commitment to make sure that we do. (Applause) Mr President, first of all, I would like to tell Mr Le Hyaric, who is calling for food surpluses to be shipped to Haiti, that this is not the European Union's approach, for the simple reason that the Commission prefers to purchase these products in the region.
First, civil protection is a competence of the Member States, and all coordination initiatives must be built on this basis.
In this crisis, non-EU Member States are calling the MIC to see how they can contribute to the relief effort with EU facilities.
What we have seen in the past about coordination is that it is not lacking inside the Commission for example - I will come back to that in a minute - but it is sometimes between the European institutions and the Member States and between the European Commission and Council.
A few hours after the catastrophe, the EU provided EUR 3 million of aid for the initial relief operations.
These amounts, totalling EUR 429 million, may be further increased, depending on the needs assessment.
I would like to congratulate the European Commission on their coordination of the aid, but I am disappointed that the European Union has not been visible enough on the ground.
During this crisis, there has been a clear need for medical care, so I am calling for an increase in the quota of doctors and health technicians, along with greater logistical support.
Improving cooperation is not a matter just for the European Union, because progress in this area requires constructive analysis and action on the part of all substantial donors.
in writing. - The recent earthquake in Haiti demonstrates to us all how fragile living on this earth can be.
The response of the global community to this natural disaster has been amazing and I commend all of those who are helping with the relief effort or funding the relief effort from home.
I look forward to working with my colleagues to do what I can for the people of Haiti.
Mr President, tragic information about the disastrous earthquake in Haiti reaches us every day.
