The programme of activities of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the programme of activities of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council.
Hungary is occupying the Presidency for the first time in its history, which is always an important event in the European Union.
Mr President, I am pleased to see that the sittings of the European Parliament are no less animated and rich in performances than those of the Hungarian Parliament, which makes me feel quite at home.
Every six months, you see a prime minister standing here, presenting the programme for their Presidency.
I would like to remind you that it was Hungary who gave the most human lives and blood for freedom and democracy after World War II, both during the revolution of 1956 and during the subsequent retribution.
For Hungarians, it is therefore a historic justice of sorts that the Prime Minister of Hungary may speak here today as the President-in-Office of the Council.
I would like to assure you that we are following in the footsteps of the revolutionaries of 1956 and intend to serve the cause of European unity through their ideals and faith.
I am convinced that all Member States of the European Union, including my home country, can only become strong and successful if the European Union itself is strong.
We Hungarians are all too aware of this, as the ailments of the Hungarian economy have been caused by the very fact that we have the lowest employment rate throughout Europe, in all the European Union.
And where there is no work, where there are no jobs, there is no money either, and from that follows debt and loans.
It was the European mentality of valuing work that has made our civilisation successful.
I am convinced that respect for work includes the idea and the mentality that we can only acquire something if we work for it first.
However, I am convinced that this is exactly what the citizens of Europe expect us to do.
They expect jobs, growth and security, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the focus of the Hungarian Presidency, the exact point-by-point transcript of which you will also find in this small book, the focus of this Hungarian Presidency will be on economic issues, and at the top of the priority list of the Hungarian Presidency are the very issues related to the economic and debt crisis.
The Hungarian Presidency will do everything in its power to this end.
It is therefore a special goal for our Presidency, and in this I would also like to ask for your cooperation, to create six laws that will facilitate the achievement of this goal, that is, economic policy coordination.
I would like to ask for your committed cooperation in this regard.
The Hungarian Presidency will be a Parliament-friendly Presidency, and so I ask you to do everything to ensure that these six laws can be adopted as soon as possible in cooperation with us.
The Hungarian Presidency is convinced that the structural reforms of the Member States must be implemented in a more consistent manner and must be coordinated to a greater extent than before.
The European Semester has begun and this is something new for everyone; not just for us Hungarians, but for you as well, as it is a completely new programme of the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, national credibility is, of course, also required when one intends to propose a common economic policy for Europe.
In 2011, Hungary's budget deficit will be below 3% and we will be one of the two EU Member States whose national debt will decrease in 2011.
This will be crucial for the credibility of our Presidency programme.
Among the priority topics of the Hungarian Presidency are energy policy and innovation, which we will be discussing on 4 February at a joint summit.
A similarly important objective of the Hungarian Presidency is to ensure that Europe possesses diversified supply lines in the field of energy.
This is not the time to discuss the Roma strategy, and I would therefore only like to point out, as the leader of a country concerned on this issue, that we are all playing with fire, and if we do not manage to establish a Roma strategy at European level, the Roma communities that are already settled and, to a certain degree, already integrated, will once again choose a nomadic lifestyle within Europe, and the problem will thus be transmitted from the countries involved today to others as well.
Ladies and gentlemen, I must also touch upon the matter of enlargement, even though I, too, am aware that understandably, there is a fear of enlargement in Europe.
Nevertheless, the Hungarian Presidency would welcome the return of an optimistic approach to enlargement in Europe.
We all have our own points of view, our own principles, our own comrades, and also our own interests.
If you do associate them, I will, of course, be ready for a fight, but if you do so, it will not be Hungary's loss, but above all, a loss for the entire community of the European Union.
I therefore ask you, for the sake of the European Union and the difficult tasks that lie before us, to make this distinction whenever possible.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that an extremely difficult six months lie before Europe, but I am optimistic and believe that Europe is up to the task.
In 1989 and 1990, it managed to reunite Europe, and so I have reason to assume that it will also be capable of responding to the similar historic challenge we are facing now.
This means that we will need more, during and after the Hungarian Presidency, than ambitious administration.
We must look further than the files massing on our desks, and we must look to an even farther horizon than that of issues which can be solved within six months or one or two years.
The Hungarian Presidency is convinced that a community can only be bound together by shared goals and shared values.
The Hungarian Presidency will carry out its day-to-day work in the spirit of this great, far-reaching European goal, will accord due respect to all of us, and will show the utmost humility to the cause.
Prime Minister, thank you for your speech and presentation of the programme of activities of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council.
The Hungarian Presidency comes at a time that demands a special sense of responsibility regarding the tasks ahead for Europe.
It is particularly appropriate that the Hungarian Presidency has chosen as its motto 'strong Europe'.
Europe is at its strongest and most effective when we are united, when we act in a coordinated manner with strong institutions, when we show a common resolve to steer a course through these stormy waters, and when we show that, by working together, we are capable of finding solutions to the most pressing problems.
So I look forward to working in partnership with Prime Minister Orbán and with the Hungarian Presidency to make sure that it is a successful one.
A fruitful partnership is particularly important in the areas of financial services, economic governance, the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, energy and the internal market.
The rhythm of work already set by the Hungarian Presidency and the comments we have just heard from the Prime Minister are encouraging in this respect.
As we start this new Presidency, a comprehensive EU agenda and appropriate governance tools are already in place.
The European Semester, Europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives and the Single Market Act - all these key initiatives have been discussed and endorsed by the EU institutions.
The European Semester is at the heart of the reformed economic strategy of the European Union.
Following discussions in several Council formations, the process will culminate at the European Council in March, which will provide essential policy guidance for Member States, to be reflected in their stability and convergence programmes as well as their national reform programmes, both of which we are expecting in April.
Final agreement on the European crisis management resolution mechanism will also be a key deliverable during the Hungarian Presidency.
Energy will also be an important area in the coming months and already at the European Council meeting on 4 February.
These include the energy agenda 2020, our communication on energy infrastructure priorities.
The Commission intends to develop its work around the following five axes: a strong energy policy as a key to competitive and sustainable growth and energy security; the internal market in energy as an asset; building the European Union's new energy infrastructure; making decisive progress on energy efficiency; and developing an effective and united new approach to external energy policy.
The Commission appreciates Hungary's commitment to taking forward work on the EU patent under its Presidency.
I welcome the fact that the Hungarian Presidency considers the social and economic integration of Roma as one of its priorities.
The Commission set up a Roma taskforce to analyse the use and effectiveness of EU and national funds in all Member States for Roma inclusion.
The new Presidency will also put the spotlight on our Danube strategy.
The Commission welcomes the Presidency's commitment to this strategy.
The Commission is convinced that cohesion policy needs to underpin more strongly the policy priorities and reform agenda of Europe 2020.
The principle of freedom of the press is a sacred one in the European Union.
I stated this in Brussels and in Budapest when I had the honour to be received there by Prime Minister Orbán.
The Prime Minister has already made it quite clear that adjustments will be made should the Commission decide after this legal assessment that changes need to be made.
I am sure that he is a very committed politician and I think you can agree that, leaving aside the legal issues - which will be dealt with in an objective and impartial manner because we will treat Hungary exactly like any other Member State - we must also concern ourselves with the political aspects.
Hungary, like any Member State taking on the rotating Presidency, needs to have the full backing of all the other Member States and the European institutions to make the Presidency a success.
I hope that Prime Minister Orbán will take this into consideration.
Let us allow the proper procedures to take their course and, at the same time, let us give our full support to Hungary as it takes on this heavy responsibility.
I have no doubt that the Hungarian Presidency will be able to deal with these challenges, alongside the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
You yourself stated last week - and I thank you for doing so - during your talks with Mr Barroso, and since then, that were this law incompatible with European law, you would submit it to your parliament for the necessary changes.
For my part, I, like you, have confidence in the European Commission, which plays its role as guardian of the Treaties, and I also have confidence that you will respect the letter and the spirit of the European rules.
For my part, I have no reason to doubt that you will do what you have said with regard to the media law and to the other priorities faced by your Presidency.
Perhaps it is a good thing that the two presidencies of the Council that will follow one another in 2011 will be assumed by countries that do not belong to the euro area but which wish to join it in the very near future.
They therefore have a stake in ensuring the stability of this currency.
Like the Hungarian Presidency of the Council, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) firmly believes that the future of 500 million Europeans depends on a stronger, more united and more coherent Europe.
Firstly, Mr Orbán, you will be familiar to many Europeans as an opponent of the Communist regime and a supporter of freedom for your country.
You said that if the Hungarian media law is not compatible with European standards, you will change it.
However, in saying this, you have also acknowledged that this is not just an internal political debate in Hungary, but also a European debate.
It is clear that this law concerns the fundamental rules and values of the European Union, which is a community based on the rule of law.
I would like to look at two elements of the media law.
This is not acceptable within a European community based on the rule of law. (Applause) In a democracy, Mr Orbán, the media monitor those who are in power.
Another pressing issue for the European Union involves rising food prices, in particular, in our neighbouring regions, but also within the European Union itself in the foreseeable future.
Everything that you have said sounds good.
You have referred, Mr Orbán, to the fact that you have a large majority at home.
The President-in-Office of the Council must do everything possible to dispel any doubts about the Presidency's readiness to defend fundamental European democratic values.
Mr Barroso, I would like to point out to you that following a ban on trucks imposed by one Austrian province, the Commission suffered a severe identity crisis and then took immediate measures against Austria.
However, when one of the fundamental principles of European democracy is put at risk, you sit and do nothing. (Applause) You must make sure that we receive the results of the investigation soon, otherwise this debate will place a heavy burden on the Hungarian Presidency.
I think that in the six months of this Presidency, you have one top priority and that is to establish, as fast as possible, real economic governance inside the European Union and inside the eurozone.
What we need now, as fast as possible, under your leadership and the leadership of the President of the Commission, is a global package on economic governance, a real economic and fiscal union, because it is nonsense to have a monetary union and not have an economic and fiscal union at the same time.
I am not asking you to invent new ideas but to take last week's package presented by the President of the Commission and Commissioner Olli Rehn and to put this package with its four cornerstones on the table of the Council and the table of your colleagues.
Mr Orbán and Mr Barroso, only one element, one cornerstone is missing in this package.
I will not talk about the law itself; I will rather use the example of one of my favourite writers, a great Hungarian writer, Sándor Márai.
The Group of the Greens, and I personally, love Hungary.
I cried in 1954 when Hungary lost the World Cup.
My first demonstration, holding on to my brother's hand, was in 1956 against the Soviet invasion of Budapest.
As Mr Verhofstadt said, many intellectuals, many Hungarian writers have supported us politically and intellectually for years.
I sided with Prime Minister Orbán when he asked liberal Europeans to expel Jörg Haider from the European liberal party.
You say that you want a strong Europe, Prime Minister Orbán.
A strong Europe, Prime Minister Orbán, must be a credible Europe.
I want to finish on one thing, Prime Minister Orbán.
If you want to fight for the world's Christians, we are with you, but I would have imagined, and I did imagine, that you would have welcomed the Jasmine Revolution in Tunisia, which is the same revolution you went through, Prime Minister Orbán: freeing yourself from a dictatorship.
Hungary is at home here in Europe, and is worthy of holding the Presidency.
Dissolution of the Budgetary Council, just like in Venezuela.
Destruction of the fine fabric of society, of its solidarity. Ágnes Heller, János Kornai, Jenő Ranschburg - Hungarian scientists of world renown have written about this.
Yesterday, Guy Verhofstadt said that the Belgian Presidency had been successful because their government had not allowed domestic tasks to distract them from European matters.
The chaos and the diplomatic disaster at home will distract the government and the European public eye from Europe.
Mr President, Mr Orbán, I would like to make some brief remarks about the media law.
This does not only relate to Hungary.
A European strategy to integrate the Roma more effectively is a very important issue.
Secondly, I am pleased to see that you are committed to the enlargement negotiations and the policy with regard to our eastern neighbours.
The other pillar is that they - and here I am referring mainly to politicians, who, instead of representing the interests of the people, persistently act as representatives of the global plutocracy and banks, even here in the European Union - make it all seem as if it were natural, or at least that there were no other way.
The Hungarian Presidency and Hungary, my home country, must show that this is not true, that the emperor is naked.
Instead of a mindset centred on profits and money, we must show that a human-centred and justice-centred approach is also possible, where the question we are asking is not about what is best for money and profits, but instead what is best for the people and for justice.
I wish the best of luck to Hungary, my freedom-loving home country. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Madam President, Mrs Morvai, we have already had a brief exchange of views yesterday.
The other thing is the media law, which is Hungary's internal affair ... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Hungarian delegation of the European People's Party.
Economic governance, energy policy or, for that matter, the Roma strategy - these directions and strategies prove the existence of shared values, just as our goals are also shared in order to ensure a strong Europe.
Europe is, after all, not just a community of interests, but also a community of values.
In fact, you are now showing disregard for these very goals and values.
Through unity, we will achieve much more, and we must strive for progress. (HU) Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interests of the European Union and Hungary, as well as of all Hungarian patriots regardless of party affiliation, that the Hungarian Presidency be a successful one.
This is even more important if we consider that today, the EU, including the euro area, is facing extraordinary challenges.
I ask you to put this ability to the service of Europe as the President-in-Office of the European Union, so that Europe may become much more dynamic and efficient.
Prime Minister, as a Hungarian and a European, I would like to go through the six months of this Presidency with pride and with my head held high. (DE) Madam President, Mr Orbán, in an article which appeared yesterday in a major German newspaper, you cited Otto Graf Lambsdorff as one of your role models.
You have responded to the criticism of the media law with two arguments.
You have said that this is a campaign against Hungary and against you personally and that the campaign is unspecific.
I would like to say to the Commission and to Mr Barroso that a legal assessment must be carried out by Mrs Kroes.
However, the Commission is not just a solicitor's office; it is also a political body.
Your second argument is that the criticism is unspecific.
Mr Orbán, I would like to make a few specific points: slander, defamation and incitement to hatred are against the law in Germany and in other democracies.
You need to improve the legal protection in Article 163, change the composition and the powers of the media authority in Articles 123 and 183, together with a great deal of other things.
I suggest that you postpone the application of the law until the Commission's assessment has been carried out and this must be done as quickly as possible. (NL) Madam President, the European Parliament and Member States are operating double standards.
Madam President, it has once again been a pleasure for me to be able to speak the truth and give my balanced view here. (PL) Madam President, it is good news that a government enjoying so much support in its own country is taking over the EU Presidency.
The Hungarian Government enjoys this support because it acts in the interests of Hungarians, and because it is rebuilding Hungary after the bankrupt, scandal-ridden governments of the Hungarian socialists.
The whole matter of the media law shows the hypocrisy of these attacks.
This is the very Gazeta Wyborcza which ensures that people who hold differing opinions have their property confiscated.
I hope that your Presidency of the EU is as successful, Mr Orbán, as ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) Madam President, as of 1 January, the Presidency of the European Union was assumed by the Hungarian Government, which has reminded us of the fact through what might be termed a cultural carpet.
I know, Prime Minister, that your country has many problems, but I firmly believe that the proud Hungarian people do not deserve such disrespect from their own government towards their famous figures and symbols. (HU) Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I basically wished to speak about the Hungarian Presidency, but the speakers before me have infuriated me, and now I must give in a little to the provocation and speak about the Hungarian media law.
Yes, we must bring up the matter of annulling the Beneš decrees.
The electorate has given you a clear mandate to do this.
Your second task is to lead Europe in your role as President-in-Office of the Council during these difficult times and to do everything in your power to resolve the economic and financial crisis.
Thirdly, we are pleased that Hungary has been a member of the European Union since 2004 and that the governing party in Hungary belongs to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
The campaign relating to the new media law, which involves calls for the withdrawal of the right to vote under Article 7, and which was initiated here in Parliament and not by you, but by the parties that lost the 2010 elections in Hungary, they sat here and they are still sitting here now at the front, at least those who have not gone running straight to the press, is hypocritical and intolerable.
The assessment will show that the media legislation in Hungary is no different to that in many other states.
This is exactly what you are doing.
My second point concerns the state media law in North Rhine-Westphalia.
Welcome to the European Parliament, Mr Orbán.
Hungary has taken on its Presidency at a time that is certainly not easy, and the programme you have presented to us is certainly full of major challenges.
You asked us several times, as Parliament, to help fulfil this programme, and believe me, Mr Orbán, we really are here in order to support what is good and what is European in your programme.
Your speech also included a call for a strong Europe, however, and I must say that it is not entirely clear to me where your European-ness begins and what its limits are, because I cannot otherwise explain why your government has begun its Presidency with the presentation of a non-existent territorial unit, instead of presenting, as the presiding country, a new vision of Europe.
With regard to other eternal objectives set out in the Presidency programme, such as achieving a common energy policy, what we need is to identify energy interests and needs common to all the Member States.
In conclusion, I wish us all good luck. (NL) Madam President, the Hungarian Presidency has got off to an unfavourable start.
The example which the Hungarian Government has set to the European Union with its new media law has not been a positive one.
The new law gives a media watchdog very extensive powers, which casts a worrying shadow on the beginning of the Hungarian Presidency.
Because that party has been a decisive factor in Hungary's return to a democratic life after a long and terrible dictatorship.
We are cheering Fides on because over the years, over all these years, it has pursued the same values of democracy and freedom, both in government and in opposition.
We are backing you, Mr Orbán, and we are cheering you on, because that means cheering Hungary on and cheering Europe on as a whole. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the founding of the European Union, one of its most important issues and challenges has been energy security.
The economic crisis, however, has clearly demonstrated that what is most important is accessibility and affordability.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for us to address the issue of energy security as one of the effects of the economic crisis, and we must do this on the background of our outdated energy infrastructure.
The most important task of the Hungarian Presidency at the energy summit will be to lay down the foundations of this new infrastructure, not just in respect of gas, but electrical lines as well.
The task before the Hungarian Government is to convince all Member States to support unanimously the increase in nuclear waste management security.
The second of these European values is the defence of democracy and freedoms.
You explain that your law is similar to that of other Member States, but even if some of them - and I am thinking in particular of my own country - clearly still have progress to make, in what other country of the Union does any part of the media risk a fine of EUR 700 000 for infringing moral standards?
The affair is now in the hands of the European Commission, which must talk to us about the main issue, and beyond merely legal issues, whether this law infringes freedom of expression.
Hungary has chosen as President of the Republic one of our very fine former colleagues, Mr Pál Schmitt, and you have been wise enough to choose as one of your ministers a very fine colleague of ours, Mrs Győri, to whom I pay tribute.
That requires consistency with the common script established by the three countries - Spain, Belgium and Hungary - but also, and most importantly, consistency with the principles, values and objectives established in the Treaty of Lisbon itself, because the absolute priority is to implement it and fulfil it.
Some of these common values and principles are established in Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon: respect for freedoms, protection for minors and pluralism, which includes pluralism of information.
I therefore share the concern that you expressed that such important objectives for the Hungarian Presidency may be distorted by national debates or peculiarities rather than by what unites us.
It is a debate that does not affect just the internal market or only Hungary.
This is a critical time for our citizens and we must carry on with our programme of reform.
We must reach out to the Hungarian people, but our future democracy cannot be compromised. (HU) Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of a European Roma strategy was first put forward by the European Parliament in early 2008 and, in the three years that have passed since then, a whole array of EU actions and documents have proven the importance of combating the segregation and poverty afflicting the 12 million Roma of Europe.
As a Member of Fidesz and the only Roma Member of the European Parliament, I am proud that the new Hungarian Government was the first among the Council presidencies to fully embrace the commitment and mission of providing a solution at European level.
The social inclusion of the Roma is one of the most serious challenges in Europe today and, at the same time, one of the most promising opportunities for our ageing societies.
Taves bahtalo! (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the press in Europe is under no obligation to take a balanced approach.
However, I would like to ask you how you feel now, when you are seen as someone who is leading a country away from democracy and towards totalitarianism? (Heckling) How do you feel as someone who has to be defended by the people sitting up there, Mr Orbán?
That is what I would like to ask you. (PT) Madam President, first and foremost, I would like to say that on this day, when we are discussing the Hungarian Presidency, without prejudice to our ability to debate all the intended topics, Parliament should be focusing on the problems of the European Union, and this is something that is not being done here.
Moreover, in order to concentrate on the problems of the EU, it is necessary to read this carefully and discuss whether it agrees with the priorities of the Hungarian Presidency or not, instead of discussing points or issues pertaining to life within Hungary, which can be regulated as part of a normal, healthy relationship between the Commission and the Hungarian Government and Parliament, if at all.
I would therefore like to say here that, quite apart from the priority that the Hungarian Presidency is, naturally, going to give to topical economic and financial issues, I am very pleased to see that the Hungarian plan for the next six months is very clear and ambitious, putting the focus and priority on three matters that will be vital to the future of Europe: food, which is entering a phase of serious global crisis; energy, which is crucial for our security and economic sustainability; and water, of which little has been said here, but which is the next challenge that Europeans will have to face after food.
These two countries have made a special contribution to the development of democracy, to the integration of Europe, and it seems to me that these merits these two countries possess should not be frittered away in the way demonstrated today.
As a good neighbour and as an Austrian, I would like to make this clear with genuine respect in what is an historic hour for you.
This law seems to have been drafted under the political influence of Horthy, Kádár, Antonescu or Ceauşescu.
We cannot allow it to continue. (NL) Madam President, as a result of the debate on the Hungarian media law, everyone in Europe knows who the current holder of the Presidency of the European Union is.
This is apparent in the context of the media law.
Back in his day, Albert Camus also had to realise who the Soviet Stalinists truly were, and took the side of the Hungarian revolution. (DE) Mr President, Mr Orbán, I agree with you on three points.
We are taking the same approach and we hope to find a solution together with your foreign minister.
However, it was a revolution against the claim to power, against the monopoly of power.
Its aim was to bring about freedom, including freedom of the press.
Therefore, I am calling on you once again to consider for yourself how you can draft a better media law, which is in line with the Hungarian revolution and the spirit of that revolution. (Applause) (SL) Mr President, I would like to address a few words of encouragement to, and support for, the Hungarian Presidency and Hungary, a country which is a good neighbour of Slovenia's and one with which we have many things in common.
That is Hungary's media law.
Mr Orbán, I belong to a young European generation that has perhaps taken freedom of the press for granted, but today I can see that it is not a foregone conclusion.
I am pleased that you have promised to revise the law if it contravenes EU legislation and treaties, and I believe that even now, you are able to go back home and carry out revisions.
You owe that to all those who have fought for fundamental rights and freedom of the press, and you owe it to my generation, which has never known anything different.
I believe that we have to build up democracy in the EU, not dismantle it. (DE) Mr President, strengthening Europe also means strengthening the Commission and extending the safety net, both from the perspective of its finances and its content.
It means reinforcing democracy in Europe and it means a community of Europe.
The process of making Europe stronger begins at home.
If we want to strengthen Europe, Mr Orbán, we must strengthen our common ground and reduce our weaknesses.
Let us use these six months to make Europe and the community of Europe stronger.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Prime Minister Orbán for his presentation of a very ambitious programme.
The motto chosen by the Hungarian Presidency is thus a very appropriate and good one.
On behalf of the Commission, I would therefore emphasise that we must support the goals of the Hungarian Presidency.
As the debate made clear, there is a tall order for this semester.
We have to introduce economic governance, find solutions to the sovereign debt crisis, and implement the EU 2020 strategy much more quickly - to name but a few of the aims in the economic field.
As you know, we engaged in a very broad programme to raise awareness and promote coordinated dialogue in the Member States on opportunities offered by EU funds.
Following on from Hungary in 2009 and Romania in 2010, Slovakia and Bulgaria will be the focus this year.
I believe that, together with you and with the Hungarian Presidency, we will be able in April to deliver the new EU framework for national Roma integration strategies.
The Commission will send a clarification letter to Budapest this week seeking further explanations.
I am sure that the European Parliament will support this work and will play its role in a spirit of loyal cooperation.
We are looking forward to working together for the benefit of Europe. [Applause] Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who honoured us with their speeches in today's exciting and valuable debate.
I would therefore like to make it clear that I am sorry to see you have been so badly misled and deceived.
I therefore suggest that we continue this media law debate in the spirit of reason and rational arguments.
At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, contrary to some of the opinions that were expressed here, Hungary is in the process of rebuilding the rule of law.
I would like to point out that, although it was not the subject of your debates in the past years, the Hungarian secret services had been used for political purposes over those past years, and this is now the subject of court proceedings.
In Hungary, the police had been ordered to use force against peaceful masses, and this is now the subject of criminal proceedings.
Listening to the debate about the media law, I unfortunately had to conclude that it is not really the media law you are having a problem with, but with the fact that, in an act of solidarity unprecedented in Europe, the Hungarian people voted a two-thirds majority to a political force in Hungary.
Mr Lambsdorff, I address you as a European addresses a European, as a Hungarian addresses a German.
And I would like to make it clear that calling into question the commitment of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian Government to democracy is an insult to the Hungarian people ... (interruption, applause).
As regards European issues, if you will allow me, I will now put on my other hat as well.
We therefore support the European policies that guide Hungary and EU Member States within the euro area, and the whole European Union, in this direction.
We must therefore first undertake the necessary structural reforms, and after that I believe the introduction of the bond market will be possible.
I would like to give you some thoughts to take with you for the next six months relating to the remarks about the Hungarian people and about you as the representative of the Hungarian people.
We all have a joint task, you and all of us who are sitting here, and that is to defend democracy, for example, against the sort of people who are heckling us here today.
The Members on the left of this House and, in particular, my group, will promise you that values such as freedom, democracy and justice are our common values.
If we believe that a law does not live up to these values, then we will criticise the law, but this does not mean that we are criticising the Hungarian people. (Applause) If we all take that to heart, Mr Orbán, then something will happen which we and you both need.
For the next six months, you have taken on the role of President-in-Office of the Council.
When he claims in this House that we have said something against the Hungarian people, it is national populism; that is to say, it is wanting not to discuss the content of something but rather to set people against each other.
This is unworthy of the European Union, Mr Orbán.
The Hungarian Presidency has made an important presentation.
We adopted the Hungarian Presidency's programme, we approved it and we heard some very positive speeches about what Hungary will do over the next six months.
The European Neighbourhood Policy is a key instrument in the Union's foreign policy.
in writing. - (NL) It is a positive thing that the Hungarian Prime Minister has clearly emphasised his willingness to adjust the new media law, should the EU so request.
Hungary, which has taken over the helm of the Presidency from the old Member State Belgium, begins its Presidency at a rather difficult time, because not all European Union Member States are enjoying an equally successful economic recovery following the economic and financial crisis.
I am pleased that in its programme, Hungary lists combating child poverty as one of its priorities, but I would urge the country holding the Presidency to take concrete measures in this area and to cooperate with the European Commission by initiating a strategy or legislation on child poverty.
in writing. - The media law adopted by Hungary's Parliament is clearly at odds with Article 11 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights that guarantees freedom of expression and information.
I urge the European Commission to proceed immediately with a legal examination of this law and its implementation and, if necessary, to take action in relation to Hungary to ensure that this law is amended and brought into line with the fundamental values on which the European Union is based.
The Hungarian Presidency has not given any credible responses to these problems, which also exist in other EU countries.
With this in mind, I hope that the Hungarian Presidency, and the Polish Presidency which follows immediately after it, will contribute to the realisation of these specific projects, by turning our age-old friendship into fruitful cooperation within the framework of the EU.
The matter is urgent.
However, neither the Hungarian people nor the Hungarian Government had been insulted by the Members of Parliament, but a great deal of criticism has been voiced against the troubling steps taken by Fidesz, including the media law.
Make sure that the Council adopts the Maternity Leave Directive as Parliament voted for it; step up sexual and reproductive health rights (starting in Hungary, of course); work towards a gender-sensitive realisation of the EU 2020 strategy; and lobby for a gender-sensitive EU budget.
Since the first day of EU membership on 1 January 2007, the Bulgarian authorities have been working to make Bulgaria a reliable external border of the EU.
I expect the Hungarian Presidency to secure a European Council resolution in favour of Bulgaria and Romania's membership of the Schengen area by the middle of 2011.
in writing. - I urge the Hungarian Presidency to look into problems of freedom of movement in the field of education and the job market.
The existing situation: While the Commission is doing an assessment of the progress on education, I call upon the Hungarian Presidency to ensure that this problem will be addressed seriously also in the Council.
I hope that the Eastern Partnership summit to be held in May will not merely summarise the implementation of this initiative over the two years of its existence, but that it will bring tangible results with regard to visa-free travel, trade and energy.
One of the important dossiers on the Presidency's agenda relates to the expansion of the Schengen area through the admission of Romania and Bulgaria.
The systems implemented with the support of the Franco-German group EADS are the most state-of-the-art in the European Union.
I firmly believe that Romania's maritime border, for instance, is incomparably better protected than similar borders for other Schengen Member States.
I welcome that the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has included in its six-monthly programme support for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area as a real achievement of European integration for the Union's citizens.
According to the document presented by Prime Minister Victor Orbán, the Hungarian Presidency declares: 'We would like to admit these two Member States to the Schengen area as soon as they fulfil all the necessary conditions'.
I would therefore like to draw the Hungarian Presidency's attention to the European Parliament's written declaration 62/2010 on increased European Union support for grassroots sport, of which I am a co-author.
The declaration is proof of our commitment to sport and to improving the quality of life of the people living in Europe.
The crisis and the decisions that have been made to date at Member State level have shown that we need more Europe, not less, in order to meet the challenges we currently face.
Combating the crisis, overcoming the problem of the Member States' public debt and continuing measures aimed at ensuring the stability of the euro area and strengthening economic governance should be priorities.
The Hungarian Presidency is counting on the 'human touch' and, above all, on a rise in employment levels.
There are also plans to extend the Schengen area to include Romania and Bulgaria.
This is a matter of vital importance, since all the Member States should enjoy the same rights.
There is also talk of concluding accession negotiations with Croatia during the Hungarian Presidency.
A responsible enlargement policy should bring stability, peace and cohesion to the continent of Europe.
This does not mean that the national approach, which is likely to be the one chosen by Hungary, cannot harmonise or even contrast with the Community approach.
In connection with the Hungarian Presidency, many people have criticised the carpet used as part of the image of the Presidency, especially its part that depicts a map of the events of 1848.
I ask the Hungarian Presidency to do everything within its power to ensure adherence to the common rules and to remind those who express their disagreement of the immeasurable negative consequences of such a decision, because maintaining the credibility of the EU is in the interest of all of us, of all 27 governments.
The Hungarian Presidency has come at a crucial time for Europe, when certain Member States are still facing a serious economic and social crisis.
The implementation of a strategy of this nature is particularly dear to my heart, and I should like to see the Hungarian Presidency addressing this issue.
In terms of economic recovery, the programme views the institutionalisation of the financial stabilisation mechanism and the European Semester as essential.
The Hungarian Presidency of the EU Council has adopted as its broad objective the strengthening of the European Union's institutional, economic, social and political aspects.
We await with interest the release of the 'White Paper on European Union Transport Policy for 2011-2020', a key area for economic development and the Union's economic and social cohesion.
The Hungarian Presidency is extremely important, not only because of its priorities, which coincide with those of Poland, but also because it is still a transitional Presidency.
These two Member States could not be more different.
The Hungarian Presidency has presented a comprehensive list of priorities.
