Spent fuel and radioactive waste (debate) Τhe next item is the report by Romana Jordan Cizelj, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste - C7-0387/2010 - 2010/0306(NLE)).
Madam President, we are dealing with a legislative proposal with which we will, for the first time, be introducing European standards for the handling of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
The European Parliament has also several times called for a directive on the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
The events in Fukushima have shown that we were right to do so because spent nuclear fuel stored in a temporary pool may also present a risk which can be forestalled with appropriate measures.
I would particularly like to emphasise our position on the export of radioactive waste.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has only an advisory role under the Euratom Treaty.
I therefore expect the European Commission and the Council to respect our positions and I ask that, during this debate, you support the positions adopted by ITRE.
I am pleased that you fundamentally agree with the concept of the European legal framework and that you support our proposals on the responsibility for the national programmes, on clear working, timing and financial requirements, on information and on the full involvement of the general public at an early stage in every national implementation process.
However, I am sure that this proposal will not be the last to be submitted over the next 20 years.
Secondly, if we look at the issue of the reversibility of the stored fuel elements and waste, the principle is that every storage facility must be suitable and safe for permanent final storage, from a geological and a technical perspective and as far as its construction is concerned.
It is important that the financing is also transparent.
The basic principle of our proposal is that every Member State, regardless of how many, if any, nuclear power stations it has and what volume of waste it usually has to process, because every Member State has nuclear waste from medical devices and from industrial research, even if it has no power stations, must take responsibility for its own tasks and also enter into bilateral agreements and develop solutions with other Member States.
I would like to thank you very much for your constructive support today.
Our committee took the view that the legal basis should be Article 153 of the Treaty, as this matter directly concerns health and safety.
I believe that the Directive will establish a legal framework in the European Union for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, and will form an integral part of EU legislation, ensuring the safe use of nuclear energy in those Member States which retain it in their energy mix.
And over the past 60 years we have failed to find efficient solutions for the management and long-term storage of hazardous waste.
Finally, Europe has to be a leader as regards both regulations and the construction of storage facilities.
The export of radioactive waste to third countries must be banned.
Finally, I have to point out, as a number of colleagues before me have done, just how absurd it is that the European Parliament is merely consulted and has no real say on this directive, upon which the safety of so many future generations depends.
Madam President, as shadow rapporteur for the European Conservatives and Reformists, I would like to applaud the Jordan Cizelj report.
This report was drafted at a time of very complex and even hysterical debates following the natural disaster in Japan and the impact of this disaster on nuclear power stations.
After many debates, we have succeeded in maintaining a rational approach to our management of radioactive waste.
All of these activities must be subject to strict controls in compliance with international standards.
The fact that these reactors are also capable of being powered by thorium, and our stocks of this material are 10 times higher than those of uranium, is another advantage.
I must also stress the important role played by international cooperation and joint research and development programmes in disseminating and exchanging best practices in this field. (SV) Madam President, the nuclear power debate often separates us into different camps.
In this case, we agree that we want the highest possible level of safety, and that of course also applies to the nuclear waste that we will be responsible for, irrespective of how long we continue to use nuclear power - and so will many, many generations after us.
One issue that is particularly important is that of the export of nuclear waste that several speakers have already mentioned.
In reality, it does not actually define waste, since if we take it to its logical conclusion, there will never be nuclear waste because we will always be able to think up a new technological solution.
We must try to encourage all forms of energy production - from renewable, sustainable energies to investing in safe nuclear plants.
The answer is not necessarily to shut down plants, as Germany is planning to do, but rather to ensure that we are following the strictest safety programmes when it comes to dealing with this form of energy and the waste it produces.
Parliament has always supported the Commission and has always called for the authority in this area to be moved to a European level.
It would certainly be very sensible for the Commission and the European Parliament to take a joint approach in this respect.
As some countries are affected by storage sites of this kind which are close to their borders, it is important for us to establish certain principles and for the Commission to propose some fundamental regulations, so that public participation is taken seriously and is based on common principles. (BG) Madam President, I would first of all like to thank Romana Cizelj for her fine report, which I sincerely hope will allow us to move closer towards adopting the subsequent directive on radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
This is why I think that it is very important to implement the first amendment tabled in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, which allows the possibility of exporting spent fuel and radioactive waste to third countries, if standards are applied in these countries which are as high as ours.
It seems like a very good idea, certainly given the fact that the issues of nuclear energy and radioactive waste get so many people stirred up.
In some countries, the landscape is not really suitable for the storage of radioactive waste, so I would argue that we should be given a realistic option for dealing with waste in another safe alternative above the ground. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every Member State produces radioactive waste.
This is why we should not only take care of the spent fuel of the power plants with a view to protecting the environment and citizens' health, but also ensure safe and efficient management of radioactive waste in general.
This is why the initiative to make Member States establish binding waste management programmes is promising.
The second issue concerns safety, and the health and safety of workers in particular.
We have to give the people of Europe peace of mind by ensuring that this subject is managed with the utmost transparency and above all, I stress, the utmost safety. (RO) Madam President, the directive sets out the legal framework for the responsible management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, which is an absolute must in terms of regulations.
There are currently three power stations in the European Union in the process of decommissioning, supported by European financial contributions.
In the near future, there will be other power stations in other Member States which will need to be halted because they are reaching the end of their operational life.
Adopting a global approach and providing relevant information will allow European citizens to gain trust and peace of mind. (HU) Madam President, the issue of spent fuel and radioactive waste management is an important and pressing area, which has received even greater attention since the disaster at Fukushima.
In Europe we aim for energy security and environmentally friendly, stable energy production.
We need to take measures that will also protect future generations. - (SK) Madam President, the management of nuclear waste is quite rightly followed closely by the general public, and it is therefore good that the European Commission has decided to handle the issue through comprehensive legislation which clearly defines the duties and responsibility of all the entities participating in this procedure.
This is why I support cooperation between Member States aimed at the safe storage of nuclear waste.
Transparency in this process also involves the population in determining the storage site and other details.
Regional research programmes in this area have already proved their benefit.
I also think that EU Member States need to share the use as well of facilities for treating and storing waste from nuclear power stations. - (SK) Madam President, I am delighted that we are making progress in the area of spent fuel and radioactive waste management, establishing specific requirements which will ensure that Member States manage the national regulatory and organisational framework, and draw up effective national programmes from the creation to the storage of the waste.
Sufficient funding must be secured for national programmes, however, so that the polluter pays, and that is clearly strengthened in this directive, which I am pleased about, including adequate dissuasive sanctions, which must be ensured in every system.
I also have to say that at this time, in the wake of the Fukushima accident, our work has been extremely difficult and I am pleased that, despite these difficult times, the text adopted by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) has been prepared to an adequate standard and that we did not get carried away with ideological debates.
I therefore would like this report, this directive, to be adopted as soon as possible and for us also to start to implement it.
I think that we should have a very serious debate on this at some point in the future and that we should seek a common solution in this area, because this is a question of democracy.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 June 2011.
Despite the difficulties encountered in the negotiations, due not least to the highly sensitive international context, the work that has resulted in the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste has succeeded in outlining a coherent, harmonised legislative framework to ensure that this kind of waste is managed safely, no matter what applications and consequences nuclear energy may have in the future.
in writing. - The European Union produces more that 40 000 m3 of radioactive waste each year, 80% is short-lived low-level radioactive waste and about 5% is long-lived low-level radioactive waste.
Spent fuel from research reactors in Romania needs to be either repatriated to the country of origin, Russia or the United States or exported to third countries in special cases.
The final responsibility for spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the Member States.
Member States must adopt high-level national regulations on nuclear safety for the protection of citizens.
Public information has to be provided as well, because it is very important that the public has appropriate knowledge of the events taking place around them.
In all the measures that we undertake we must ensure the safety of the general public and the environment.
The subject of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is highly topical.
However, regardless of our position on this issue, the radioactive waste problem is a reality and we must deal with waste in the best and safest way possible.
I support the 'polluter pays' principle and we should under no circumstances be shirking our responsibilities.
For that reason, I am also calling for a ban on exports of nuclear waste to third countries.
