Citizens' initiative (debate) The next item is the report by Zita Gurmai and Alain Lamassoure, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative - C7-0089/2010 -.
We can avoid this with a regulation that provides for its safe and efficient use, and we can help to bridge the famous gap between ourselves and European citizens.
Member States will have some flexibility in choosing what information is required in each country, but I am glad to say that many of them are going for less data than originally planned.
From now on, the citizens will enjoy the same power of political initiative as that enjoyed here by the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament.
European policy must be made by the citizens, for the citizens and through the citizens.
We want to close the divide between the citizens and policy and between the citizens and the institutions.
We have succeeding in creating more democracy within the European Union, but we have not done enough to enable citizens to participate more effectively in decisions and in European debates.
Most importantly, we have succeeded in almost completely removing the barrier which, right from the beginning, threatened to be extremely unsuccessful and which required an admissibility check to take place after 300 000 signatures, before the citizens could continue collecting more signatures. 'Almost completely' means that we have proposed the idea of involving a committee of initiators at the start which will ensure that not every mail which the Commission receives and which has the words citizens' initiative on its subject line will undergo the full administrative procedure.
In other words, anyone who wants to collect one million signatures must first involve at least seven countries in his proposal.
We have fought for this not on our own behalf, but - and we must never forget this - on behalf of the citizens of Europe, their rights and a more effective and simpler process for citizens to become involved in Europe.
I do not believe that I need to list here the examples which have shown us, before and after the signature of the Treaty of Lisbon in December 2009, the extent to which a rapprochement of this nature is necessary.
I am therefore particularly keen to be able to address you about the regulation that implements the citizens' initiative, this flagship innovation of the Treaty of Lisbon as regards improved citizen participation in decisions at European level.
Indeed, the Council has always considered that the citizens' initiative, as an element of citizen participation in European decisions, should go hand-in-hand with the other element, that is, the election of the European Parliament.
Just one year after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, we are holding a discussion on the forthcoming adoption of the regulation on the citizens' initiative.
I would like to thank all of you for organising a number of hearings, not only in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (AFCO) and the Committee on Petitions (PETI) but also in most of the political groups, because these hearings have been very important for all of us.
Thanks to this new innovative approach we achieved broad consensus within the European Parliament.
What we are going to vote on, today, is the result of a compromise - sometimes a difficult compromise - and I do understand that Mr Lamassoure and the other rapporteurs have achieved, on our behalf, a result which is practicable and feasible.
We would also like to reach out to those who cannot contribute online, but would rather express their opinions on paper.
We would be pleased if we could receive feedback, and we would be pleased if we could resolve any problems arising in the process as early as possible.
On the other hand, we note that a large amount of work will be necessary on the part of those who submit an initiative, but I hope that we will take up the challenge to ensure that citizens' initiatives are received with respect and in a constructive and positive spirit in the institutions of the EU.
Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation on this important initiative.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (ES) Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is going to vote enthusiastically in favour of this report, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the Commission and the Council on this agreement.
I would like to recall the following names here today: Jürgen Meyer, our German Social Democrat colleague, and Alain Lamassoure, who were responsible for bringing this initiative to the plenary of the Convention and getting it approved.
Parliament wanted to make the citizens' initiative as userfriendly as possible, and it has mainly succeeded in this.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, the European citizens' initiative (ECI) is a much needed sign of engagement by the EU, and is a great opportunity to increase democratic participation in Europe and to strengthen the links between citizens and politicians.
The current regulation is good, but my group is of the opinion that it could and should have been even better.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (DA) Madam President, since the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force a year ago, an unprecedented amount of power has been transferred to the EU's institutions, and throughout the past year we have seen how the European Parliament in particular has been in a position to exploit this situation - divesting the Member States of an enormous amount of power.
Thirdly, I would like to express my satisfaction over the three-month deadline, over the political and legal arguments and the procedure that the Commission must follow for organising public hearings jointly with Parliament.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate all four co-rapporteurs from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Petitions on their joint work in delivering this remarkable report, as well as on the way in which they negotiated with the Council and the Commission to achieve such a good result.
Another matter is that it should be considered whether the 300 000 votes needed for an initiative and the one quarter of the Member States which have to be represented is not too low a threshold.
In Poland, an initiative of this kind requires the signatures of 100 000 people.
I would ask Parliament to give serious consideration to the amendments adopted by large majorities in the Committee on Petitions and which we have yet again tabled to the plenary - Amendments 71, 72, 73 and 74.
The purpose of Amendments 72 and 73, therefore, which we have tabled once more to the plenary, is to ensure that residents' signatures will be included in the 1 million signatures requesting the Commission to take action. (NL) Madam President, I am not sure what to make of this citizens' initiative.
I call upon elected politicians in Member States to respect the fact that they have representative democracy to express their views and this initiative is for citizens.
In contrast to Mrs Corazza Bildt, I think that a good compromise has been reached.
Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their hard work.
I believe that this is a major step forward for democracy in Europe and ultimately this is what we in Parliament are fighting for: a democratic Europe. (PL) Madam President, I would like to add my voice to the expressions of support and approval for this scheme.
Only a constitutional entity, whether or not it has a written constitution, is in a position to provide its citizens with an instrument that has this capacity, and I recognise in our action something of great value: the value of providing the European Union with this constitutional nature.
We in the Committee on Petitions worked with this in mind, cooperating with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, applying the procedure laid down in Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure.
As many fellow Members and the rapporteurs have emphasised, we aimed to make the procedure as usable, burden-free, transparent and effective as possible.
As Chair of the Committee on Petitions I should like to express my satisfaction because, under an agreement between the parties involved, this task within Parliament is likely to be entrusted to the committee that I chair. (DE) Madam President, firstly I would like to thank everyone who has made this possible and, in particular, the former vice-president Sylvia-Yvonne Kaufmann, who did much of the preliminary work during the previous parliamentary term to ensure that the day would come when the European citizens' initiative would become reality.
This instrument, the European citizens' initiative, will bring the institutions closer to the citizens.
In my area, the environment, I can think of a number of subjects which could be put on the European Union's agenda using this instrument and, in particular, on the agenda of the Commission in its role as European government or executive.
I would also like to ask the Commission how it is preparing for these future initiatives.
I would like to thank everyone and especially the rapporteurs Mrs Gurmai and Mr Lamassoure for their excellent work. (LT) Madam President, this is a really happy and important day for the European Parliament.
It is very important for citizens' voices to be heard.
Finally, I would like to stress that it is important to have full transparency regarding the founding of the initiative and sources of financial support for the organisers. (ES) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, because their work is going to give European men and women the opportunity to convert their concerns into initiatives in the European Parliament.
This regulation is part of the Europe 2020 policy, and is a basic tool for managing the knowledge and talent available in society.
Enabling European citizens to submit proposals for new legislation on a matter of social importance is an invaluable part of democracy, and I feel honoured that I can be part of the process of giving this tool to the residents of Europe. (EL) Madam President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, first I would like to thank the honourable Members of this Parliament for their great support for this regulation.
As we saw this morning, this year is rather challenging for Europe, but I think this debate has shown that today is a very good day for European citizens and a very good day for Europe.
We are going to organise the contact points, and we are going to organise the helpdesk through which we will advise organisers about what is possible, what is not, what kinds of regulations are in the pipeline, what kinds of initiatives are being organised or what kinds of competing or opposite proposals we have received from other organising committees.
We will try to be as user-friendly and as citizens' initiative-friendly as possible.
I hope that this new instrument will help us to have a better European debate in Europe and more European topics in national capitals.
We have done our best to reduce this risk in the regulation with the help of Sylvia Kaufmann, who made the first report on the ECI in this Parliament.
rapporteur. - Madam President, at this time and hour, everything having been said, I am happy to leave you the last say in this matter, which you know as well as I do.
The European Parliament is encouraging rapid, effective implementation.
With the Treaty of Lisbon, we conferred nationality upon the residents of the EU.
I would also like to mention that the Committee of the Regions has said that local and regional authorities have taken an interest in the ECI.
in writing. - I was eager for European citizens to benefit from this powerful instrument as soon as possible, and I am delighted to see the end of the legislative procedure one year after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Today's vote on the European citizens' initiative is a milestone for more democracy in Europe.
I am pleased that we are moving one step closer to the Europe of the citizens today with the European citizens' initiative.
The Convention on the Future of Europe worked out the basis for the current Treaty of Lisbon and also laid the ground for the mechanism for the citizens' initiative.
I note with particular regret that the 'million4disability' initiative launched in 2007 by the community of 80 million persons with disabilities living in the European Union, which produced 1.35 million authentic signatures, remained unsuccessful.
The European citizens' initiative should be a way to seek amendments to the EU Treaties.
The debate on the need to amend the Treaties should therefore not end with a narrow interpretation of the citizens' initiative: it must be more flexible and take account of the public viewpoint.
The European citizens' initiative will make a significant contribution to making the European political system more democratic, as it establishes a direct link between Member States' citizens and EU institutions.
in writing. - (LT) I am delighted that barely a year since the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, an agreement has been reached on the regulation on the citizens' initiative.
On the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure the transparency in the organisation and funding of this initiative, and the initiative must remain an expression of the citizens themselves rather than political or other groups.
I believe that the final text of the regulation on which we will vote today will help ensure this balance.
However, the most important issue is the general approach to the citizens' initiative.
This process will assess whether or not proposals meet with the basic values of the European Union.
