Nuclear safety 25 years after the Chernobyl disaster (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on nuclear safety 25 years after the Chernobyl disaster by Bogusław Sonik, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - B7-0312/2011).
The explosion of the reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant resulted in the contamination of around 100 000 km2 of land, of which 70% was in Belarus.
Around 115 000 people were evacuated from the areas in the vicinity of the reactor, and around 220 000 people were relocated from Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine after 1986.
Other sources estimate that around 200 000 people have already died from radiation-related diseases, and that a further 100 000 people may die from cancers caused by the Chernobyl disaster in future.
In this context, we cannot forget that the question of how to approach nuclear safety is relevant across all borders around the world, and should therefore be considered in a spirit of solidarity and cross-border responsibility.
Nuclear disasters always come as a surprise, and always have international and global consequences.
We have been busy on the diplomatic front and have also persuaded 32 countries, including 13 new donors, to commit to the fund.
We are also working with the government in Ukraine to ensure that the plan to shelter the Chernobyl reactor core can be completed.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is always good to take stock of activities, which is why I am grateful to the Commission for having explained so clearly everything that Europe has done since the disaster, both immediately, in the medium to long term, and right up to the present.
They have demonstrated that these institutions are not just a talking shop, but also a source of practical aid.
There is still a large uninhabitable area, so that people can no longer return to their homes.
Television has shown us that women still suffer miscarriages 25 years after the disaster.
It is for this reason, Mr Oettinger, that you have particular responsibility for ensuring that we get to grips with this topic, especially in the light of what has happened in Fukushima.
Later on we are going to talk with you about the stress tests, in other words the safety analyses for the 143 nuclear power plants.
Accordingly we must also investigate other risks, such as plane crashes, terrorist attacks, computer attacks, in other words this combination of attacks on nuclear power plants; what is more, you must guarantee that this does not become simply a token gesture.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, while the question of pursuing our energy strategy, with or without nuclear power, is now being debated in the Member States concerned, we should keep in mind that, whichever decision is taken, nuclear safety will remain a long-standing issue for several generations.
We should obviously develop and enforce common standards on nuclear safety at international level since radioactive contamination knows no borders, as the Chernobyl disaster revealed and as is confirmed by what is still happening in Fukushima.
Mr President, Chernobyl has been a point of reference for European policy for the 25 years since the tragic disaster.
It would be worth the Commission taking steps to ensure that its standards are enforced not only in the EU itself, but also outside its borders, since the plants in the Kaliningrad Oblast and in Belarus are aimed at the European market.
The only question is whether the Commission will have the power and the imagination to succeed in taking action in this field.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, it is true that the European Union has already done a lot in relation to Chernobyl and its aftermath.
This is very important.
Forsmark is a good example of this, Paks is another, as is the Brunsbüttel nuclear power plant in Germany.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, following the disaster of Chernobyl 25 years ago, new investigations by the Society for Radiation Protection show that to date 1.4 million people have died from the long-term consequences of the nuclear meltdown.
The EU must now take the right steps in responding to the Chernobyl and Fukushima disasters.
The whole of Europe learnt that lesson well 25 years ago.
Therefore stress tests must be carried out, and not only at nuclear power plants within the European Union.
Unfortunately, in these cases it seems too early to talk about any stress tests.
Therefore the entire European Union, both the Commission and the Member States should act in solidarity to ensure that nuclear power plants planned in the European Union's neighbourhood are subject to the same stress tests as European Union power plants.
Only then can we be sure that we will not have to evacuate 100 000 people, this time within the territory of the European Union. (LT) Mr President, this discussion is very important, but long overdue, in my opinion.
Unfortunately, the accident in Fukushima has shown that, because of the material benefits, in 25 years the world has made absolutely no attempt to evaluate the nuclear threat objectively.
We must know what actions will be taken if the nuclear power plants fail to comply with stress test requirements and many other issues. (SV) Mr President, people and rescue workers in and around Chernobyl suffered very badly as a result of the disaster, but the effects also reached areas much further away.
After the disaster in Fukushima, many people in Europe are now concerned about nuclear power once again.
Thank you. (PL) Mr President, twenty-five years after the nuclear accident in Chernobyl, we are becoming ever more aware of the tragic consequences of disasters in nuclear power stations, for human health and even life and for the environment as a whole.
At present over 140 nuclear power stations are operating on the territory of the European Union, with over 190 on the European continent.
There can be no doubt that we need to set high standards for nuclear power stations in order to ensure that they can gain greater public acceptance than to date, since they are unquestionably an important source of energy for Europe.
Secondly, the public domain, and more specifically the European Union and its Member States, as well as nuclear industry operators, must adopt a behavioural ethic of total transparency in relation to nuclear activities.
Citizens accept scientific risk to some extent, but only if it can be measured.
Fourthly, we must monitor the training of nuclear engineers and speed up scientific research programmes, and on that note I would like to express my satisfaction that the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) has been extended into 2012 and 2013. (RO) Mr President, I am from Romania, a country which produces nuclear energy, whose population even now has fears and questions that remain unanswered about the long-term impact of the Chernobyl accident.
A group of experts funded by the European Commission recommended an international study should be conducted, which would investigate all the effects that the Chernobyl disaster has had on human health.
An agreement signed between these organisations well over 50 years ago implies that the Agency can prevent the WHO from having access to information regarded as confidential, even if this information may be crucially important for monitoring and understanding the effects of nuclear accidents on human health.
In other words, an organisation concerned with promoting nuclear technology bans the WHO from accessing information about the impact of this technology on human health. (PL) Mr President, two weeks ago, we marked the passing of a quarter of a century since the explosion in Chernobyl, the effects of which were tragic.
Further expansion in this respect is therefore unavoidable, as proven by the plans to construct further plants in Poland, Lithuania and Slovakia, and I therefore support the introduction of stress tests and safety assessments for nuclear power stations.
We should also actively support international cooperation on improving nuclear safety, and therefore similar stress tests should be carried out in nuclear power stations in Ukraine, on Russian territory and in the former Soviet states. (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, like Fukushima, Chernobyl showed that, despite all the rules we may set down, the residual risk from human error needs to be measured and that, in this context, we must identify more clearly where the limits of nuclear energy lie, because obviously even the strictest regulations cannot eliminate this residual risk as a result of human error.
The Soviet centralist model is largely responsible for this misinformation.
Finally, Commissioner, I wish to encourage you in relation to the stress tests.
That is why I would urge you not to allow yourself to be manipulated by members of the Council of Ministers, but rather to set down clear, common, verifiable standards, so that these stress tests fulfil their purpose. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, if someone lives on a road that is too loud, there is always the possibility of moving somewhere further away, perhaps just a couple of blocks distant.
Unfortunately, as the Chernobyl incident 25 years ago and the Fukushima incident a few weeks ago remind us, when it comes to nuclear power plant accidents, this possibility of simply moving a few blocks further away does not exist.
We have to ensure that our safety standards apply not only to Europe but also to Europe's neighbours, and, in fact, to the whole world.
A nuclear emergency was declared on 11 March of this year in the Fukushima nuclear power plant.
Workers in nuclear power plants need special protection.
Commissioner, you must not yield to the will of the Member States which are calling for the criteria to be relaxed.
At the same time, we must also work on the Europeanisation of energy policy. - (SK) Mr President, we all still remember clearly the terrible disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear plant 25 years ago.
I am delighted that the European Parliament is addressing the question of nuclear safety today and that this is a key point, but another key point is that without nuclear energy we cannot, unfortunately, get by at all.
Twenty-five years after Chernobyl, there is a need to rebuild the sarcophagus, but we see how difficult it is to gather the financial resources: how difficult it is to get the financial resources from those European Member States that are, at the same time, worrying very much about nuclear safety.
We may not realise at this stage what is required in terms of Member States' financial resources, but until we understand the problem we will continue, for the most part, to pay mere lip service to tackling it. (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, even 25 years down the road, Chernobyl continues to be a cause for concern.
We should then take a pro-active approach in bringing these principles to the attention of the international bodies. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been 25 years since the Chernobyl disaster, but we do not have any comprehensive, systematic research into the catastrophe's effect on health.
Research of this kind would also improve the knowledge that mankind has about the effects of radiation on health. - (CS) Mr President, in connection with the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I believe that gratitude should be expressed to two countries which the European Parliament is none too fond of.
They were given the best possible treatment and the best possible care at a time when the Republic of Cuba was in a very difficult economic situation. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all well aware of the direct impact of Chernobyl.
Likewise, we shall do all we can to finance the necessary technical measures in full within the international community with the involvement of the European Union.
Poland, a very European country, is on the point of deciding on two nuclear power plants.
As yet there are no test criteria, even though judgments have already been made - judgments that the stress tests are too soft, disappointing or inadequate.
This applies equally to natural causes, such as earthquakes, flooding or extreme temperatures, and human causes, such as error, accident, intent or criminality.
Since there is a significant number of nuclear stations in Europe, and since these stations are often close to borders, a cross-border approach must be adopted to nuclear safety, coordinated at the EU level.
Five men were arrested under the Terrorism Act outside the Sellafield nuclear plant on 2 May, and the Irish Government has not yet stated whether the British Government shared all the security information about the incident with it.
That is why Member States must take all the measures necessary to ensure and maintain a maximum level of security in European power plants and a maximum level of protection for citizens.
On 26 April 1986, a sudden power surge in the reactor during a system test damaged the reactor vessel, which gave rise to a series of explosions.
According to UN data, areas within a radius of 500 km from the power plant were contaminated.
Around 115 000 people were evacuated from the areas in the vicinity of the reactor, and since 1986 around 220 000 people have been relocated from Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
The accident in Chernobyl occurred 25 years ago, but as recently as March of this year there was an accident in Fukushima.
There can be no doubt that we should draw conclusions from history, but we should not become hysterical in response to the disaster in Japan.
