Preparations for the European Council meeting (24 June 2011) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparations for the European Council meeting of 23-24 June 2011.
Thanks to the excellent cooperation between Commission, Council and Member States in handling national reform programmes and recommendations, the first European Semester has lasted a semester, and not a day longer.
The European Council will be invited to endorse the country-specific recommendations approved by the Council, which should be reflected by all Member States in their national decisions as regards their budgets and structural reforms.
The initial position of Parliament carried approximately 2 000 amendments.
Minister Győri has presented the agenda in general, on behalf of the Hungarian Presidency of the Council.
Now I expect Parliament and the Member States to come to an agreement, because the adoption of the governance package is fundamental to our comprehensive response to the crisis.
Agreement on this package is vital.
Secondly, I expect the Heads of State and Government to endorse the country-specific recommendations that the Commission presented on 7 June.
Of course, discussions between the Commission and the Member States on these recommendations have sometimes been very intense, but I am pleased that the overall result has maintained the high level of ambition.
There is no point in signing off on a brand new economic governance package if, the very same week, Member States question the methodology and independent Commission recommendations in the country-specific exercise.
I spoke to Parliament in May about the Commission's migration package, which sets recent and future policy initiatives in a framework that allows the EU and its Member States to manage asylum, migration and mobility of third-country nationals in a secure environment.
The European Council has also discussed the situation in our neighbourhood, in particular the implementation of the Partnership for Democracy and Shared Prosperity with the Southern Mediterranean.
Another item on the upcoming European Council agenda is the Commission's recommendation that Croatia become the 28th Member State of the European Union, hopefully by 1 July 2013.
Last night's vote in the Greek Parliament allows the government to build consensus in support of the reform package, agreed with the European Union and IMF, of fiscal measures, privatisations and reforms that are necessary in Greece's journey back to growth.
The Greek Government is ready to engage with us in this approach.
They are making sacrifices, and we know they are making sacrifices, but at the end of that road there is hope, and solutions are within their reach.
Mr President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, Minister Győri, I would firstly like to say a brief word to you, in acknowledgement of all the work you have done and especially of the methodical approach you employed and the hours you devoted to this work, with Parliament in particular.
Seldom has a European Council meeting taken place in such difficult and tense circumstances.
Seldom have expectations been so high among the people in our various countries, expectations of brave and united decisions from their leaders on the burning issue of the euro and the debt crisis, as well as on economic governance.
In several countries, and especially in Greece, our fellow citizens are confused, anxious and deeply concerned about their and their children's future.
We will emerge from the crisis not by pinpointing scapegoats (Europe, the International Monetary Fund and others), but by rolling up our sleeves - and when I say 'us', I am of course talking about the political class, but also about all of the 500 million European citizens.
This European Council meeting will be a historic one, because it will decide on the future of this Union.
We are in a crisis of confidence in the European project.
In this world in which we live there are 43 companies with a balance sheet totalling more than the national budget of a medium-sized EU Member State like Poland.
That means that there are 43 heads of companies that are at least as powerful as the Polish Prime Minister.
The EU currently has 7.8% of the world's population in its 27 Member States.
If we have the shared will to make the strongest economy in the world - because that is what Europe is if it holds together - into a success by standing together in solidarity.
