President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, honourable Members, the Presidency of the Council and the European Parliament already had the opportunity to discuss the G20 on 20 October 2010; at the time we were on the eve of the ministerial meeting of the G20 and were waiting to see how things would develop in Seoul.
However, I think they also have another, even more important responsibility: making sure that decisions do not remain on paper, but have concrete results and are fully implemented.
In terms of substance, the Union's contribution to strong, lasting, balanced growth is now clear, and is based on a certain number of principles: fiscal consolidation plans aimed at sustainable, differentiated growth; the Europe 2020 strategy for the structural reforms needed in order to sustain job creation in particular; the programme of reforms to the financial sector and markets, and, finally, the strengthening of economic governance in the EU.
The first one is the reform of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), for the EU clearly showed that it was prepared to do its share so that the new IMF could be more representative of the new international economic reality and, therefore, so that the emerging economies could make their voice heard and play a greater role.
Finally, since Seoul, France has assumed responsibility for the Presidency of the G20 and I think this is a unique opportunity for Europeans and the European Union as such.
It will be very important for us to work together in a coordinated way so as to make sure that throughout the coming year - and with a view to the Cannes G20 summit in November 2011 and beyond that - the G20 will be commensurate with the expectations it has created.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, before this month's Seoul Summit there was concern that once the pressure of the crisis which brought G20 countries together was receding, the G20 would find it impossible to fulfil its role as the primary forum for global economic coordination.
The second achievement relates to currency rates.
This resolve provides political momentum for the French G20 Presidency that will take up a comprehensive reform of the international monetary system.
I am also happy to see that the G20 summit endorsed the historic reform of the IMF.
The Seoul Summit also created new momentum to conclude the Doha Round and reiterated the G20 commitment to fight protectionism in all its forms.
I think it really must be said that the results have been fairly poor, even though Basel III and the IMF reform were approved.
As we all know, the global economic crisis which started in 2007 broke out when, one by one, the investment banks in the United States hit liquidity problems.
Several speakers this morning have made the point that the French Presidency of the G20 could represent an opportunity for Europe.
I clearly share this view, and I believe that our Parliament ought to be regularly informed of the progress of the G20's work by the Presidency itself.
The European Union stands ready to support work in the G20 to explore and develop a financial transaction tax at global level.
On 7 October 2010, the Commission outlined its view on this issue and it will pursue the following objectives.
A financial transaction tax should be promoted at global level.
Within the Union and following on from what the Commission has just told us about banking levies and the tax on financial transactions, the conclusions of the European Council of 29 October clearly state that work on these two issues should continue, both within the Union and on international issues.
On this basis, the October European Council concluded that the different systems of levies that exist at present should be coordinated to a greater extent, and the ECOFIN Council was invited to return to the December European Council with conclusions.
