He was with us four years ago, and he was also in Brussels in 2004, just after being elected President of Georgia.
Today is a special day - today, 23 November, is the seventh anniversary of the Rose Revolution, the bloodless watershed which brought change to the situation not only in Georgia but the whole region of the South Caucasus.
Mr President, for almost 60 years, the European Union has been moving in the direction which Georgia has now also chosen - that of lasting peace, welfare and unthreatened liberty.
I would like to recall that in May this year, we adopted a resolution calling on Russia to respect the conditions of the ceasefire and to withdraw its forces from Georgian territory. (Applause) Four years ago, Mr Saakashvili said in this Chamber that Georgians are not only one of the oldest nations of Europe, but that they are also intensely interested in European integration.
We in the European Union are keen that Georgia should be stable and that it should develop well, but we are also keen for this to happen in the entire region of the South Caucasus.
Mr President, as we noted in our preliminary discussions, I was last here four years ago, so it is like the Olympic Games.
I came here to affirm that peace - a just and lasting peace - is possible in my region, and that we need Europe to contribute to it.
On 23 November 2003, hundreds of thousands of citizens of all regional, religious and social backgrounds peacefully took over the streets and the Parliament.
To sum up: Václav Havel and Slobodan Milošević.
Seven years ago, Georgia was formally an independent state, but it was still part of this world of fear and hatred.
This is the message that unleashed so much anger towards us among those nostalgic for the Empire, but this is the message that turned Georgia into a laboratory of reforms for our region.
Seven years ago, Georgia was still divided into isolated communities which feared each other.
Once the epicentre of the post-Soviet mafia, Georgia made more progress against corruption than any other country in the world from 2004 to 2009, according to the EBRD and Transparency International.
Indeed, on the TI listing, Georgia went up about 70 places and, by coincidence, around that time, Russia went down about 70 places.
They imposed a full-scale embargo on my nation in 2006.
They deported our citizens, repeatedly bombed our territory prior to 2008 and finally invaded in 2008.
When tanks and missiles are standing 50 km from a capital, it would be high time for many governments to cry that they are besieged, there is no time to have freedom and it is a luxury to have democracy - which they cannot afford - and start to crack down on their opposition and call for so-called unity of society.
In 2008, it once again witnessed total destruction.
A great poet and a famous Russian dissident, Alexandr Galich, one of those eight heroes who demonstrated on Red Square in 1968 against the invasion of Prague, was the author of this great phrase: Отечество в опасности! Наши танки на чужой земле!, which means that 'the homeland is in danger, our tanks have invaded a foreign country'.
He wrote another splendid line about Georgia, which again I shall quote in Russian: Прекрасная и гордая страна! Ты отвечаешь шуткой на злословье!, which translates roughly as 'splendid and proud country, you respond to mud-slinging with a smile'. (Applause) The last time I visited Anaklia, I saw a row of discotheques as lively as you can see anywhere in Europe, where young people danced just as they would in Ibiza or St Tropez.
I have come here to announce a new step in our policy of constructive unilateralism.
I also consulted with our friends - American and European allies and people in the region - and the Georgian Government already considers itself bound by the 12 August ceasefire agreement and has always understood that the ceasefire clearly prohibits the use of force.
This initiative is far from easy for a country that is partially occupied and has 500 000 IDPs and refugees.
It constitutes and expands our policy of constructive unilateralism.
It is time to say that we must never have another Grozny, a regional capital of 400 000 inhabitants that has been totally erased from the surface of the globe.
Ladies and gentlemen, our region has made a choice.
More than 2 000 years of national culture, a democratic system and natural wealth'.
President Saakashvili, your message today was very important for all of us, but it was very important as well for the future OSCE summit in Astana, Kazakhstan, in one week's time on 1 and 2 December.
