Integrated Maritime Policy (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Meissner, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on integrated maritime policy (IMP) - evaluation of progress made and new challenges -.
Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, ladies and gentlemen, I wish that the Chamber were full to bursting, not on my account or because this is my first report, but because of the subject matter, which is unfamiliar to many people, but nevertheless highly important.
Population levels are growing, not in Europe, but throughout the rest of the world and by 2050 they will have reached 9 billion.
Our objective must now be to keep the resources of the seas safe for future generations by means of the integrated maritime policy.
While we are developing our overall maritime policy, it is important to ensure that the sea does not strike back, as it did in a sensational novel by bestselling author Frank Schätzing.
The coastline of the EU is 23 000 kilometres in length and one third of the population lives by the sea.
Further growth is being forecast and therefore we must ensure in particular that we can reduce emissions by developing greener ships.
Of course, maritime policy also includes fisheries and aquaculture.
Protecting our coasts is an important issue which is also covered by integrated maritime policy.
The European Union has already achieved a great deal in this respect, but it needs to do even more.
The Commission very much welcomes this excellent report and its favourable view of our integrated maritime policy.
The Commission is confident that the policy demands in this report will impact positively on future maritime policy for three important reasons.
Firstly, in taking a forward-looking approach to the maritime dimension of the Europe 2020 strategy and ensuring sustainable growth in maritime sectors and coastal regions.
These include Europe's approach to climate change mitigation in coastal regions and to sustainable coastal tourism, support for greener, safer and more competitive shipping through the common maritime space without borders, and further action on maritime safety and accident prevention.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, firstly I would like to thank Mrs Meissner for what is, in the truest sense of the word, integrated work, not only because it concerns the integrated maritime policy, but also because it includes all the specialist areas.
As far as fisheries are concerned, I would like to say once again that fisheries and aquaculture, of course, make up a substantial part of the integrated maritime policy.
The EUR 50 million made available by the Commission will not be enough.
Mr President, Commissioner, sustainable use of the maritime environment is vital to the sustainability and growth of the whole of Europe, especially countries whose economies are directly linked to the sea.
Balanced growth in basic sectors, such as fisheries and aquaculture, energy, transport and tourism, can guarantee citizens' professional future and income.
From a regional development point of view, making use of territorial cohesion as a new basis for further integration of the internal market is of vital importance.
The innovative approach adopted under the integrated maritime policy is also important and has replaced the fragmented approach to maritime policies.
The strategic objective of an integrated maritime policy is to strengthen Europe's leading position in maritime research and technological development, in sectors such as shipbuilding, the exploitation of maritime resources and the development of off-shore energy sources, through better coordination of policies relating to the sea.
The integrated maritime policy must support European shipping, which is unrivalled in the world, so that it can play a leading role at international level.
That is why we must safeguard the competitiveness of our shipping as a valuable asset; it is very important to Europe.
We share the approach taken by this report which puts the focus not on the sectoral structure of maritime policy in the individual Member States, but instead emphasises the importance of coordinating maritime policy within and across the Member States.
It is not possible to comment on every issue, but I would like to mention briefly the sulphur emission control areas.
When the Commission presents its study, we will be able to tell to what extent the limits will result in a shift from sea to road transport, in particular in the North Sea and the Baltic.
However, the basic conditions for competition within the European Union between the North and the South must remain at the same level.
This must also be one of the Commission's objectives.
I believe that the call from the Member States to put funding aside for shipbuilding was also very important, but it has not been supported by the Liberals and the Conservatives.
The EU is the world's largest maritime power.
An integrated policy in line with the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy will help us strengthen our leadership.
However this requires a global, cross-sectoral policy that takes into account all civil society actors as well as the strategies and responsibilities of local and regional authorities in coastal areas.
That was the Commission's intent back in 2009 when it announced a more horizontal policy approach on areas such as maritime transport, the marine environment and regional and fisheries policies.
However, we believe there is still much work to be done.
This was an issue over which the Committee on Transport was evenly split, with 20 votes each side, so it is perfectly right that Mrs Meissner has brought it here today for plenary to vote on.
It emerges from the report that 56 out of 65 proposed measures have been initiated or completed, and generally as legal acts by the Commission or Council.
For inland regions, however, the priority is to connect maritime policy with a policy of better, rational use of the main European waterways; see point 40 of the report.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Meissner for a well-thought-out and comprehensive report, to which there is scarcely anything to add.
Like Mrs Meissner, I am a strong supporter of coherence between policy areas, interdisciplinary research programmes and new challenges, but what concerns me most of all are the problems relating to the pollution of our seas.
It concerned the establishment of cooperation between EU Member States for combating disasters in the North-East Atlantic.
In this context, I would like to highlight the very positive move made by Mr Öttinger, who is attempting to put in place regulations governing the safety of drilling platforms.
Another positive feature that I would like to mention is the fact that shipping companies are playing an active role in protecting the environment and marine animals.
It would be a very good idea for the EU to support positive measures of this kind taken by private companies. (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work, and especially for the proper way in which she views the International Maritime Organisation's decision on sulphur emissions.
The emissions limits must be the same.
We speak of the Europe 2020 strategy, but we make other sorts of decisions that take these jobs away.
This can hardly be what the EU wants.
The Commission must prove that it is making a real effort, that it is not just using its instruments of governance but actually implementing targeted legislative measures, and duly learning its lessons from past mistakes caused by an approach that was often too sectoral in nature.
We are fully aware that this is a very complex process, but we are at a difficult and demanding juncture where no lapse in attention can be tolerated and where adequate investment and shared governance mechanisms are needed both at interinstitutional level and in international cooperation for the regional basins, among which the Mediterranean stands out because of the complexity of its jurisdiction.
That is why it will be crucial to view the management of the Mediterranean basin as an asset shared by all the coastal States, on the basis of the res communis omnium, or common heritage, principle.
I would point out in this respect that, only a month ago, this interpretation on the part of Libya resulted in an actual armed assault on a European fishing boat, and it would be wrong to argue that this is just a matter between Italy and Libya. (FR) Mr President, may I first say a very big thank you to Mrs Meissner, our rapporteur, for her excellent report and above all for her excellent cooperation with the Intergroup on Seas and Coastal Affairs, which I chair and which, through the good offices of Mrs Meissner, was able to ensure that amendments on issues of great importance to its members were adopted.
A framework directive already exists, but other instruments need to be enhanced, especially as regards integrated coastal zone management and maritime spatial planning.
We must take advantage of the next three years in order to establish a real Community policy in this area that will enable us to bridge this artificial divide between instruments for the land and instruments for the sea, or else our fellow citizens will not understand.
I draw your attention to the project, christened 'Vasco de Gama', that the maritime regions have launched, and I thank Mrs Meissner for having taken it into account. (SV) The Integrated Maritime Policy is a very welcome strategy, because our seas are interconnected and all sectors that exploit the seas have a combined effect on the marine environment.
The Member States now have a duty to attain a good environmental status for the seas by 2020.
The short presentation of the report pursuant to Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, the reduced possibility to table amendments, which is against the rules, and the rejection of most amendments tabled by the European Commission do not fill us with optimism or hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will approach the subject of integrated maritime policy in a fully responsible way.
We are facing a crisis in the shipbuilding industry.
Therefore, I appeal for appropriate attention to be given to integrated maritime policy and for a fully responsible approach to the subject. (PT) The large number of activities and sectoral policies on the marine environment - from fishing to maritime transport, and including tourism, energy, science and technology, among others - requires an integrated policy that promotes a beneficial interlinking of all these areas within a framework of sustainability of the marine environment, and of preservation of the related ecosystems.
Inevitably, this means assessing the situation in the former sovereign UK waters, secretly betrayed to European bureaucracy control in 1973, since nearly 70% of so-called 'EU fishing stocks' are actually British fishing stocks.
Commissioner, this, I believe, is a necessary reform and the necessary mandate must be used to support these tasks. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Meissner for her excellent work and the way in which she has managed to bring about broad consensus with her report.
As coordinator of my group, I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to our former colleague Mr Piecyk, who sadly died two years ago and who did some groundbreaking work in this Parliament to flesh out an integrated European maritime policy - something we can build upon today.
To begin with, we must bring about a new dynamism in the sector by putting effective structures and appropriate measures in place; after all, this sector provides large numbers of jobs throughout Europe both directly and indirectly and, in particular, is essential for the development of our coastal and port areas.
The European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) must really be strengthened and given a greater role, and be given the appropriate competences and resources.
In addition, we need to have effective spatial planning, of course.
The oceans are being used increasingly intensively for transport, maritime economic activities, offshore energy and fishing, and the development of these areas must be coordinated.
We must continue to focus on the fishing industry, which is in a weak position and is often regarded as being a low priority, but which, because it provides us with food, represents a vital link in the coastal economy.
There is considerable potential for development, and it should be safeguarded, protected and enhanced in a lasting way, because the future of the human race depends on it.
The report also rightly notes that the European Union is the world's leading maritime power and that its outermost regions ensure that it has the world's largest exclusive economic zone.
Therefore, in the light of such a finding, it is the European Union's responsibility to implement an ambitious policy, a major maritime policy.
If the world's leading maritime power does not do so, who will?
One cannot claim to be the world's leading policymaker with only EUR 50 million.
It is essential for the European Union to plan the European maritime space and its uses, especially for coastal regions and even more so for the outermost regions.
For the integrated maritime policy to be greater than the sum of its parts - and to focus on fishing here - it is vital that this activity be represented in the clusters of maritime activities, so that desires can be incorporated in a collaborative way and difficulties resulting from the overlapping of interests in the use of the maritime space can be overcome.
Protecting the oceans is a moral obligation that we have for ourselves and for future generations. (EL) Commissioner, almost every civilisation in the history of Europe has been based on the sea.
The integrated maritime policy requires a cross-sectoral, global strategy for the sustainable development of coastal and island areas and the seas.
We need to exert coordinated pressure for global IMO regulations, given that a unilateral decision by Europe to create an ETS for shipping would, I fear, have disastrous consequences for European shipping by putting off a proper solution, namely international regulations, not forgetting that shipping is an international activity par excellence. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Mrs Meissner for her report on integrated maritime policy, and I agree with her on the need to strengthen maritime transport and the shipbuilding industry, to safeguard coastal regions and to promote innovation and research activities.
As a result, we must encourage cooperation between small and large ports that face one another in the same sea basin and which can facilitate more fluid trade.
All the measures relating to safety within all European ports must be harmonised so as to better protect maritime transport and prevent unfair competition from harming those ports which actually have to incur greater expense in order to guarantee a higher level of safety. (RO) The development of an integrated maritime policy is an absolute must, given the fragmented approach adopted in the past which led to inefficiency and conflicts in this area.
The integrated maritime policy facilitates a cross-sector approach to maritime governance, by helping identify and utilise areas of synergy between the European Union's policies which come under this area.
Nevertheless, I hope that this funding method will enable the objectives of the integrated maritime policy to be met both in the short and medium term. (PT) Mr President, the smart growth advocated in the Europe 2020 strategy can only be achieved if we intelligently mobilise the various types of potential inherent in European diversity.
I would draw particular attention to the potential biogenetic and mineral wealth that our deep sea and seabeds contain, about which we currently know little; I would draw attention to the need to increase our research and development efforts in these areas. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, ladies and gentlemen, we must preserve the world's oceans as an ecosystem.
However, the oceans and the concept of globalisation are not mutually exclusive.
The development of the Danube plays a major role in this respect.
As the longest river in the EU, in combination with the Rhine-Main-Danube canal, it can link the Black Sea with the North Sea.
However, the establishment of differing emission limits within EU waters conflicts with the integrated maritime policy, which aims to take all factors into account.
We need to be consistent in this area. (RO) The importance of the integrated maritime policy is unarguable in circumstances where the European Union is the number one global maritime power and 40% of the EU's GDP is produced around the seas and coastal areas.
At the same time, we must ensure that this policy will enjoy appropriate funding in the outlook for the forthcoming programming period, thereby creating a new approach aimed at encouraging optimum development of all maritime activities in a sustainable manner, and which will cover all sea basins.
This will allow us to enjoy much greater benefits, while easing the environmental impact. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the rapporteurs and members have spoken in depth about the content of the integrated maritime policy.
It will, indeed, be no easy task, but we must include shipping emissions in plans to reduce overall emissions.
Mr Itälä and Mr Fleckenstein have already referred to this.
I congratulate Mrs Meissner on her report.
With an emphasis on the Black Sea's geostrategic importance, the European Council should ask the European Commission to draw up a European Union Black Sea strategy.
It is estimated that the Irish marine industrial base is responsible for the employment of some 8 000 people generating over EUR 1.5 billion within the economy annually.
The rapidly evolving nature of the maritime sector requires a unified approach at European level, and the growth in maritime activities such as maritime transport, development, aquaculture and tourism - combined with new uses of the sea such as underwater technologies, offshore renewable energy and the blue biotech - is increasing pressure on an already limited maritime space. (ES) Mr President, the integrated maritime policy is a cross-cutting, regional and sectoral policy and the fisheries and aquaculture policy must be a part of it, in a way that does not make it subordinate to other policies.
This is what needs to be done if we intend to work towards an integrated maritime policy, and if we intend to work for the environment and sustainability. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, integrated maritime policy has a horizontal role: it incorporates various aspects, from the environment to marine and maritime research.
Thank you very much, Mr Pirillo.
I have not included your initial remarks in your speaking time, because what you have said is important.
However, I can assure you that all the Vice-Presidents make a great effort in this respect.
I think these two aspects, in addition to Mrs Meissner's excellent proposals, will play an important part in creating to the new marine awareness that Europe needs.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I know that at the beginning of the debate Mrs Meissner expressed her disappointment at so few Members being here in the Chamber.
I think she should be very pleased that 37 speakers contributed to the debate.
We must manage the finances of the EU concerning maritime issues in the context of the European Commission's proposal for a regulation to finance the integrated maritime policy in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
The purpose of the proposed funding, namely of EUR 50 million, is to continue the work undertaken since 2007 to remove policy barriers and to unleash synergies by bridging all policies that impact on the sea, such as transport, fisheries, customs and marine environmental protection.
The Commission looks forward to working with Parliament on the timely entry into force of this regulation so that we can implement our future integrated maritime policy actions.
It is the culmination of intensive work that has produced a six-step roadmap to achieve in a short time the integration in maritime surveillance which seemed extremely difficult to achieve just a few months ago.
The Commission will present a proposal to align EU legislation with the IMO decision within the next months.
The proposal will be accompanied by a detailed report that will also include the outcome of our ex-post impact assessment relating to the IMO decision, as well as possible measures that the Commission could take to mitigate undesired impacts on the sector.
The European Maritime Safety Agency is in charge of monitoring shipping safety.
Finally, in my capacity as the European Commissioner with responsibility for research, innovation and science, I was very glad to hear several Members here in the Chamber raising the issue of the relationship between maritime policy generally and, specifically, research into marine and maritime policy.
This is a very important pillar of our integrated maritime policies.
I would like to thank Mrs Meissner again for her comprehensive and far-reaching report.
Right at the beginning, I also forgot to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
Mr Fleckenstein raised the problem of the sulphur emissions.
We have included it in the report because it was important to us that there is no distortion of competition, but we also need to make sure that shipping is more environmentally friendly.
The subject of my amendment was also raised, which I introduced in order to include emissions trading in the report.
If we continue to work on this, we will be able to achieve a great deal. (DE) Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order.
I would like to thank the chair for bringing the debate to a close today a quarter of an hour before the vote, because this is a dignified way of ending the debate, which allows us to finish speaking calmly and gives the Members time to come in.
Written Statements (Rule 149) It is important for the EU to ensure that its coasts are protected.
In June of this year, I submitted a written suggestion to Commissioners Oettinger, Kallas and Georgieva to extend the mandate of the EMSA to create mechanisms for supervising safety on European oil platforms located in the North Sea, the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, and to make it responsible for preventing environmental disasters related to oil exploration.
The Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel have been declared a sulphur emissions control area, and more stringent requirements have been established for these regions to reduce pollution significantly.
In these regions, from 2015, marine fuels can be used if their sulphur content does not exceed 0.1%, while for other regions the sulphur content is required not to exceed 0.5% from 2020.
This issue was also dealt with at the International Maritime Conference, which took place on 24 September in Tallinn in my home country.
I believe that it will not be a solution if the European Union comes out with its own requirements, but they do not apply to third countries; that is, we will subject ourselves to unequal competition in the maritime sector.
The situation must be resolved internationally, so that the requirements imposed would be real and would apply to all those sailing in the Baltic Sea, not only to vessels from EU Member States.
On this issue, I therefore support the standpoints of the Estonian and Finnish governments, as well as the European Community Shipowners' Association - the International Maritime Organisation's decision should be reviewed and should impose equal rules on all EU regions and vessels operating there.
I strongly urge the European Commission to redouble efforts to develop the Black Sea approach of this policy.
The international dimension of the IMP is a crucial aspect for successful implementation in the Black Sea region, which also encompasses seven non-EU countries.
The European Parliament is currently preparing a report on establishing an EU Strategy for the Black Sea.
I hope that the Commission will follow this initiative and will regard the future strategy as an important basis for strengthened IMP implementation in the Black Sea area.
