Therefore, once they have evaluated the rapid ageing of Europe's population, I call on the Commission and the Council to find other means of ensuring normal living conditions for current and future pensioners. (BG) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two events are marked in Bulgaria today, 10 November.
They are calling for calm on both sides; they are saying that it is a very complicated issue, that we should not interfere, and that we must protect European interests in Morocco.
No more haggling over human rights. (PL) Mr President, I am pleased that the Commissioner is still here, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity because this matter also touches on Mrs Malmström's area of responsibility.
I know this is being mentioned for the third time, but it is a very serious matter, so I would like to report that during the night of 5 to 6 November, a journalist working for the Russian newspaper Kommersant, Oleg Kashin, was badly beaten outside his home in Moscow - I am sure you know about this, Commissioner.
I read an interview, today, with one of Poland's most outstanding analysts of Russian affairs, and he says that in the last 10 years, 300 journalists have been killed in the Russian Federation.
Enjoy your champagne, ladies and gentlemen. (RO) The Danube summit, which took place on 8 November in Bucharest, was attended by the 14 delegations from the countries participating in the Danube strategy, including the Republic of Moldova, presenting it with an opportunity to move even closer to the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, this conflict is more than 30 years old, and must come to an end as soon as possible with a solution that is mutually acceptable to the parties in the context of the United Nations, which, along with the Moroccan Government, the Saharan people and their representatives, is the only body with the legitimacy to put forward such a solution. (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament has made a stand in defence of fundamental human rights, civil liberties and political freedoms on many occasions.
This matter needs to be explained. (SK) I am pleased that the European Commission, in its strategy for the years 2010 and 2011, yesterday confirmed that a policy of expansion is the best strategy for the Western Balkan region.
Among them are the commencement of dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo - which is expected to bring more stability to the region, and a solution as soon as possible to the issue of the name of Macedonia - a process that has already been in progress for a very long time, the question of agreeing on a vision or a new approach with regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the start of visa liberalisation with Kosovo.
I have a good report that citizens in Slovakia, in the week from 25 to 27 October, not only took an interest in the fact that we adopted the report of my colleague, Renate Sommer, at the first reading, but also created such a powerful synergetic effect that students of Nitra University, the agri-food industry and the media and the wider public got hugely involved in these debates, organising workshops and competitions, while young people got involved in a discussion which was, I must say, given a further boost through the participation of rapporteur Renate Sommer herself, while the three Slovak MEPs also took an active part in the process.
