The next item is the Commission statement on the situation in Haiti one year after the earthquake: humanitarian aid and reconstruction.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, may I also join you in expressing sympathy to those affected and their families.
After the earthquake, the EU pledged more than EUR 320 million in pure humanitarian aid, of which the Commission provided EUR 130 million for last year, 2010.
I want to stress here that we have been looking at the situation in Haiti comprehensively with a view not only to helping people in immediate need but also to building the foundation for longer-term recovery.
As part of the overall EU commitment, the Union's pledge was initially announced at EUR 460 million, and we consider it necessary to increase that to EUR 522 million.
One has to realise that the situation there, which was already very difficult before the earthquake, became immensely challenging in its aftermath and even more complicated later - due to Hurricane Tomas, the cholera epidemic and political instability.
Other factors which we need to bear in mind include, firstly, the fact that medium-term to long-term reconstruction assistance is implemented over three to five years and disbursements are spread over the programme's duration: 2010 was mainly dedicated to committing funds and launching project preparations, including all necessary technical studies and tenders.
I believe, however, that we must pursue our strong wish to achieve stability in terms of both aid and the democratic functioning of Haiti, because that is clearly a precondition if the efforts of the EU and the entire international community are to be successful.
It is imperative to assist the future Haitian authorities, throughout the reconstruction process, in the organisation of their institutions with a view to establishing a new equilibrium at all levels and a fully functioning democracy.
Secondly, every effort must be made to avoid extending the interim period, which will be triggered at the end of President Préval's term of office on 7 February.
Last but not least, I believe that this current assessment must mark a turning point in the reconstruction efforts, which have been undermined by inefficiency, delays and conflicting interests among countries in the region.
We also knew that, in addition to the many civilian victims, the earthquake had affected the very heart of the State, so significant was the damage caused by this natural catastrophe.
There are a million people homeless in Haiti; 230 000 have died; 300 000 are injured.
But only 5% of the rubble has been cleared, only 15% of houses have been reconstructed in some fashion or other.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Madam President, scarcely a year ago, Haiti and its people were victims of a terrible catastrophe.
Let us pay tribute to the courage of the Haitian people and the worldwide surge of popular solidarity towards the victims.
Madam President, one year after the terrible earthquake in Haiti, the reconstruction of this country is painfully slow.
I found when we were there - and I want to say this and put it on the record - that the Haitian people are a very proud people.
If we return to this Chamber ten more times to achieve that, then we should do that and keep doing it. (RO) Madam President, on 12 January 2010, the state of Haiti was literally swept away, as has also been mentioned by many fellow Members.
I know that the situation is not easy, but we need that legitimate discussion in order to speed up the improvement of the situation in Haiti.
We need to bring an end, not only to poverty, but also to dependence. (PL) Madam President, a year ago, there was a terrible disaster in Haiti, a huge earthquake which caused the deaths of 200 000 people and resulted in 1 300 000 people losing their homes.
As Europeans, we have expressed our commitment to help Haiti in the short term and I think we have to continue to show solidarity. (PT) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake has mired Haiti in one of the most serious of humanitarian crises: thousands of dead and wounded, millions of homeless and extremely high levels of damage.
The international community promised a great deal but has delivered very little and it is hard to understand why the reconstruction process is so slow, in spite of the goodwill of the European Union and the work of non-governmental organisations.
The European Union must continue to help with the reconstruction and to improve the humanitarian situation of vulnerable groups within the Haitian population, but must also contribute to reinforcing capacities for disaster prevention in the long term.
I should therefore like to welcome the recent proposals tabled by the Commission regarding the creation of a European disaster response that includes establishing a voluntary pool of Member States' emergency organisations and developing contingency plans, as well as the merging of humanitarian aid crisis centres with civil protection to form a European emergency response centre, responsible for monitoring dangerous situations, issuing early warnings and coordinating EU disaster response. (PL) Madam President, soon it will be a year since our previous debate on the coordination of humanitarian aid and the reconstruction of Haiti.
Two equally important issues should be stressed at this point, which are more important than the construction of new houses and new roads.
As our sources show, 250 women and girls had been raped only a few days after the earthquake, and the situation is still getting worse.
It is about time we discussed this shameful subject, addressed this inhumane phenomenon, and began to effectively counteract sexual assault in Haiti.
Secondly, the cholera epidemic, which has already been mentioned here.
And we should also bear in mind that the cholera epidemic is sure to increase with a change in the season.
All the measures required to accelerate Haiti's rapid reconstruction and improve its population's living conditions need to be taken urgently, but we insist on respect for the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity that the bravery and nobility of the Haitian people merit. (RO) Madam President, one year after the devastating earthquake in Haiti, there is still no evidence of specific results from the reconstruction process.
This situation will continue unless political stability is successfully established in the country, the capacity of the state is restored and an effective government is appointed.
I would not agree that we were slow to respond: help from the European Union was flowing within 24 hours.
Let me, in closing, just thank everyone once again for their comments and especially those of you who have recognised the sacrifice of the humanitarian workers for the benefit of the people of Haiti.
We also have a responsibility to our taxpayers.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 19 January 2011.
