Security and prevention measures on offshore oil platforms in the EU (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on security and prevention measures on offshore oil platforms in the EU.
Madam President, 20 April was a dark day for the Gulf of Mexico, for the United States of America, nay, for the whole world.
Europe, together with Norway, produces more than 200 million tonnes of crude oil a year, most of it from the North Sea.
The European legislation represents the framework for safety and environmental protection measures, both in general and in the event of a specific accident.
In this technically-oriented meeting, we asked the industry to ensure that all possible efforts were made to prevent comparable accidents in the vicinity of European coasts.
There were 12 questions, and they very specifically included everything that is crucial to safety on oil platforms and gas platforms and for the waters, the coasts and the Member States.
The oil slick now covers over 43 000 square kilometres, which is bigger than the Netherlands.
Decisions made under pressure from an industrial or political lobby should not be allowed.
The recent explosion in the Gulf of Mexico involved a platform which was only built in 2001 and its subsequent sinking is causing one of the biggest ecological disasters to date.
This explosion, this accident occurred just when the area was starting to recover from the devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina; it also claimed 11 lives.
Having said that, what measures do you intend to take in the short term to improve safety and accident prevention on offshore platforms located in our territorial waters?
In recent times, the industries have favoured exploration and extraction, to the detriment of safety and of the environment; every day for almost a month now, 800 000 litres of crude oil have been flowing into the Gulf of Mexico, and the environmental and economic damage will be catastrophic.
The volcano - I will not say its name, because it is unpronounceable - was a sign for us on the issue of air transport; in the same way, this terrible accident is another sign for us on the issue of oil extraction.
We have had, as colleagues have mentioned, our own experience of platform disasters in the North Sea.
I think of Piper Alpha as one example, and I believe that lessons have been learned from that.
That is why it is essential for the European Union, which must set an example, to review with the utmost rigour the security and prevention measures on its own offshore oil platforms.
It is important for us to see what lessons we need to learn from the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico and what the current situation is in waters where similar production activities are being carried out in EU Member States.
The source of the gas will be the Russian Stockman field in the Barents Sea.
The project plans the extraction of 24 billion m3 of gas annually in the first phase, but this will then rise to 68 billion.
It will not be possible to stop the stream of 148 000 tonnes of methane, because there are no valves or transit stations.
We should also concentrate all our mental energies and our financial resources on investing in renewable energy. (GA) Madam President, it is good that we are discussing this important issue but, at the end of the day, I do not know what will come of our talks or what effect we will have on large companies - the oil companies who own the oil wells which caused this damage and this disaster.
It is because of all that that I believe that we simply have to be aware that we still need many years of major oil consumption but that we must nevertheless be fully ambitious as we walk the path away from oil: 20% renewable energy sources in 10 years' time.
Depths of 150 and 200 metres can be reached with manned submarines.
