In the past, through various initiatives and questions, I have asked about the possibility of using European Union funds to provide social housing for the neediest and most marginalised categories of society, which are the categories that local authorities allocate to income-based scales, as happens in major capitals and large urban areas.
Despite the willingness of Member States to cooperate in the field of taxation, tangible results have not been achieved, and tax fraud remains at an extremely high level in the EU and brings far too many negative implications both to our economies and our citizens.
I very much welcome the proposed new improvements, which will hopefully produce tangible results in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, especially the extension of the scope of the directive on all taxes, including social security contributions, the automatic exchange of information and improved cooperation between the Member States in matters of taxation. (CS) Mr President, I would like to talk about the Domenici report and I would like to say it is worth noting that we have given such strong support here in Strasbourg to measures which will improve transparency and information sharing that it will enable tax administration in the Member States to be more efficient.
A state can raise its taxes only up to a certain level before the money begins to go abroad and the revenues dwindle.
If colleagues doubt that, then I suggest they look around them. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic earthquake in Haiti has violently shaken not only the ground of this unfortunate country but also all of our consciences.
The close support that the international community has shown to the people of Haiti has been a shining example of solidarity and humanity.
This vessel not only made available all its state-of-the-art medical facilities, but also carried 135 tonnes of material provided by the World Food Programme and 77 tonnes of material from the Italian Red Cross.
Thank you, Mr President.
I wanted to stress this point. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 200 000 dead, 250 000 severely wounded, 3 million people directly struck by the earthquake, in addition to the 2 million people needing food aid: these are the stark consequences of the dreadful catastrophe that has befallen Haiti.
It is important that they are focused on the long-term recovery of this terribly impoverished island.
It is not a good beginning for the improved foreign policy of the EU following ratification of the Lisbon Treaty. (FI) Mr President, it is very important that the European Union, as the world's largest economy, is robustly involved in helping Haiti's disaster area following the earthquake.
We must be robustly involved in taking care of our weakest link, our fellow human beings in Haiti, and ensure that the aid given by the European Union reaches its destination and is effective.
The death toll is now believed to be 230 000, with 300 000 injured.
There was all this talk about the need to put an EU flag on aid to Haiti and about the need to establish the principle of a European civil protection force.
When we have put our own House in order, then perhaps we will be in a position to lecture others. (SK) The human rights situation in Iran continues to deteriorate, despite the European Parliament resolution of 22 October on Iran which, in my opinion, has not brought the expected moral pressure.
Particularly shocking and regrettable in my view is the execution of underage criminals, of whom about 140 have been executed up to now in Iran.
One recent case, for example, was that of 17-year-old Mosleh Zamani in December 2009.
Iran bears no consequences for continuing this appalling practice, despite the fact that the Islamic Republic of Iran is a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
I would therefore like to call on the EU to take specific and resolute steps and to make full use of the new options provided by the Lisbon Treaty. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something because, as was mentioned previously, the Italian Embassy and other embassies were attacked yesterday in Tehran.
Because of this, Parliament and the Union should also consider expressing their solidarity, formally if possible, with our country and all the countries involved in this attack.
Through this act of remembrance, I would like to express our solidarity for those who are struggling for democracy and freedom in Iran.
The Presidency of the Council must ensure that this question is included on the agenda of the next meeting of the Security Council.
I welcome the agreement that Baroness Ashton must protest against the incident at the Italian embassy, because this involves not just Italy but the entire European Union.
I am pleased we agree that the trade agreement with Iran must be made conditional on security and human rights commitments. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attack on the European embassies, the Italian Embassy in particular, and the threats made against the Italian Prime Minister, constitute an extremely severe event deserving of reprimand.
The systematic repression of any opposition within Iran seems to us even more serious and the Islamic Republic of Iran's nuclear project even more so.
I am well aware that Russia and China are opposed to sanctions, but the European Union must make every effort to persuade these powers to agree to sanctions, which are an alternative to sending in the army. (FI) Mr President, it is very obvious that the situation in Iran has reached crisis point.
At the same time, I did not endorse the amendments proposed by some of our fellow Members, who wanted to identify Iran as an enemy of the West.
The second reason is that Iran is under the continuous threat of military intervention by the United States and Israel and we are not taking this into account either.
I feel that a balanced resolution in favour of peace in the region should not adopt the tone of condoning an imminent war before it happens. (ET) I supported the resolution under discussion, because I also believe that the European Union's current legislative framework on human trafficking has not been very efficient, and it has not been implemented sufficiently.
It is regrettable that the importance of human trafficking has not been understood by 16 Member States' parliaments, including, I have to say, my own country, and that they have not considered it necessary to ratify and adopt the Council's 2005 convention on human trafficking.
Therefore, I endorsed the resolution, which calls for development of effective tools for the fight against this phenomenon and for better coordination of action between Member States and the appropriate operational bodies of the European Union, in hope of achieving salutary effects. (FI) Mr President, human trafficking is always an act against humanity.
Human trafficking is also still a serious problem within the European Union.
As I said, human trafficking is always against humanity and human dignity is a value that cannot be compromised.
However, we voted in favour, because we believe that it is vital that Parliament express its strong disappointment with the agreement that came out of Copenhagen.
For this reason, I would like to appeal to the European Union to stop using others as an excuse.
There are many things we can do to maintain our strong stance.
Otherwise, there is a cynical attempt to resolve the problems of climate change while simultaneously unleashing and ignoring other problems that will jeopardise their survival.
We therefore need to make a commitment, and we cannot afford to wait any longer to do so.
The Copenhagen Summit was a disappointment in many respects.
The EU failed especially in demonstrating a unified and efficient approach to climate change treatment, as well as in strengthening its leading political position in this agenda.
We have to enhance and promote further activities aimed at climate change treatment. (DE) Mr President, personally, I feel that it is completely wrong to focus only on reducing CO2 emissions when combating climate change.
Firstly, many people forget that the research into the causes of climate change is still in its infancy and, secondly, it is totally incorrect and unscientific to define climate change as a phenomenon with a single cause.
I believe that it is more important to focus our attention on saving resources.
Cutting our consumption of fossil fuels and making greater use of renewable raw materials and energy will reduce our impact on the environment, improve efficiency and create a better world for our children and grandchildren.
A more efficient and sustainable use of resources is a far more valuable approach for us, our society and the environment than simply reducing CO2 emissions, regardless of the cost. (DE) Mr President, the climate negotiations in Copenhagen were disappointing for the European Union, as has already been mentioned.
The result was a long way from the EU position and from the position that we need to be in to protect the climate.
Finally, I would like to say how pleased I am that I was able to vote for the resolution, because in my opinion, it continues to emphasise the pioneering role played by the European Union.
We must now answer these questions and continue on our current path, both from a domestic and an international perspective. (CS) The draft resolution on the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change was the result of the detailed work of Members from a number of committees and is linked to the long-term strategy of a genuine green policy in keeping with the economic goals of the EU in a globalised world.
I also dislike the playing down of climate change on the part of the ERC Group and I am angry about the absurd criticism of the Danish Prime Minister, instead of thanks for the careful preparation of the Copenhagen Summit. (DE) Mr President, I have voted against the motion for a resolution, because in my opinion, it is lacking some important data.
It is important for us to discuss this and make our opinions known.
In order to ensure that there is no misunderstanding, I would like to explain that I have been committed for many years to reducing our use of fossil fuels and, therefore, our impact on the environment.
Look at the common agricultural policy, which many MEPs in this place support, that not only damages developing countries' economies but damages the environment.
These scandals are a lot more serious in terms of their consequences than this House would like to believe.
White bears, which are said to be disappearing, have never been as prolific as they are today.
Until these questions have been answered, we can only believe that this is a magnificent ideological dogma designed to justify the introduction of a world government. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain my reasons for voting on Amendment 12 by clearly stating that l'Italia dei Valori is against the production of nuclear energy.
The US was founded out of a popular revolt against a remote and autocratic government and against high taxation, whereas, of course, the European Union - in line 1 of Article 1 of its foundational treaty - commits itself to ever-closer union.
In my own country, the British Government has been spending money it does not have and now has to plug a massive gap in the budget.
Whilst I fully support many measures which have been suggested to stop tax fraud and evasion, this document went far further, and there were three major concerns.
Firstly, taking action against those who commit fraud should not be used as a backdoor way by those who want to increase tax harmonisation across Europe for those of us who honestly pay our taxes.
Mr President, it is a pity that an enthusiastic majority in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality is trying hard to overload our position on the Committee's annual report on equality between men and women in the European Union with considerations and claims that are counterproductive for women and which harm, among other things, their chances of employment.
Although some considerations may be well-intentioned, let us not forget that too much protection destroys all protection.
However, the stumbling block for my group has once again been the right to free social abortion, which is presented as an easy birth control method.
Furthermore, under the principle of subsidiarity, legislation in the field of legal abortion is the responsibility of the Member States.
It is therefore not our responsibility in the EU to interfere in this issue.
It is also dangerous that the report violates the subsidiarity principle, and does so on an ill matter. (PL) Mr President, equality between women and men is an important subject.
Parliament's report takes note of these problems, and stresses the necessity of introducing specific measures which will ensure equal participation of men and women in the job market and in education.
Secondly, the question of unwanted pregnancies is a huge problem, but we cannot bring in legislation which is going to treat abortion as a free means of contraception.
This resolution has many points with which I agree of course, and I must say that many of them relate to my personal political activity, especially when it comes to access to the world of work and protecting women from all forms of violence.
This is followed by a single line about contraception and the termination of pregnancy, abortion, two topics which are actually very different, and which need to be considered very differently.
In the case of abortion, for example, we need to focus our attention and our thoughts on the sanctity of life.
This choice has meant that I have been unable to vote in favour of the resolution and I have had to abstain.
I think that this carefully worked-out strategy, which seeks to obtain the consensus of politicians and the media, does not really serve the interests of European women. (ET) Mr President, in contrast to the previous speakers, I was among the 381 members of the parliament who supported the adoption of this bill - and this is 10 times bigger than the number of members on our women's rights committee.
Equal rights, equal opportunities and equality between the genders in everyday life is definitely in all our interests.
Equal rights for women and men is not an aim in itself, but a precondition for achieving the general goals of the European Union, and the rational use of our own potential.
There were only 75 abstentions and I applaud the fact that 253 People's Party members voted against the report.
There is an argument for all of these things.
A court with a mission is a menace; a supreme court with a mission is a tyranny. (PL) Mr President, my surname is very difficult, too - Skrzydlewska - but I am used to the fact that not many people can say it properly.
However, among the provisions relating to problems associated with discrimination against women and their more difficult situation in the labour market, there were provisions calling on Member States to facilitate universal access to abortion and services related to reproductive and sexual health.
I would like to point out that matters related to abortion are something to be decided by individual Member States.
Therefore, in the final vote I was against the report, because I think that, when fighting for the right to equal treatment for women and men, we should not make this right dependent on choices related to sexual matters. (DE) Mr President, I am very pleased that we Christian Democrats from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) have voted against this dreadful ideological report put forward by the Socialists, Communists, Greens and, in particular, the Liberals.
It is an attack on the right to life of unborn children and an attack on the principle of subsidiarity.
In particular, I am horrified by the way in which the Liberals have become the dogsbodies of those on the left and have acted contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
Some of the ideological elements relating to Croatia and Macedonia in the progress reports are also doing us harm.
Here in Strasbourg, the European Parliament has called on the Slovene Parliament to ratify the arbitration agreement as soon as possible.
What I would say on that point is that, in August 2007, all the parliamentary groups said that any solution must be in line with the principle of equity.
I have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution because it does not reflect this principle. (CS) I was delighted today to support the report on the key progress of Croatia in preparing for accession to the EU.
I believe that the ratification process for the accession agreement will not be disrupted by any of the internal politicking within the Twenty Seven, which accompanied the Lisbon Treaty, and I also believe that the parliaments of Slovenia and Croatia will find a fair solution to their border disputes. (CS) Mr President, I, too, will be brief.
The recent elections have helped in this.
I also believe that democratic institutions will manage to strengthen negotiations with Greece concerning amicable solutions to problem areas. (CS) I will be very brief again.
I would like to say that we have adopted a very frank report on how Turkey can responsibly amend its legislation in accordance with the EU model and also concerning the fact that the political criteria in the area of human rights, especially in relation to women and religious minorities, have not yet been fulfilled, just as the Cyprus issue remains open.
I welcome the fact that Turkey is moving towards democracy and towards Europe, but I would like to say once again that a better solution to economic relations would have been to set up a privileged partnership rather than to promise accession to Turkey with its 70 million-strong population.
It would also be more frank in view of the fact that, as I fear, an accession agreement would not be approved in a future referendum anyhow. (DE) Mr President, I am pleased that this House has rejected by a large and clear majority the attempt by the Socialists and the Greens to set the goal of full membership for Turkey.
The process must remain open and, to put it even more clearly, it must be diverted immediately towards a tailor-made special status or a privileged partnership.
Turkey is not a European country, but it is our most important partner on the margins of Europe.
In my view, it is it unacceptable to consider membership for a country in which women's rights and freedom of religion, thought and expression are violated, where torture, discrimination and corruption are tolerated and where the army continues to interfere in political life and foreign policy.
The reforms should also include reform of the electoral system through a reduction in the ten percent threshold, in order to secure a better pluralistic democracy.
Written explanations of vote The report by Mr Casa on the common system of value added tax with regard to invoicing rules has been adopted by a very large majority of Members, including myself.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal relates to the creation of a self-assessment system in relation to the supply or provision of certain goods or services susceptible to fraud, on an optional trial basis.
According to the European Commission, this is required because there are still a substantial number of cases of VAT fraud, and the Commission also has information about alleged cases of fraud related to the trading of greenhouse gas emission licences.
The Commission must report on the effectiveness of the reverse charge mechanism with a view to establishing whether it would be appropriate to extend the mechanism elsewhere.
in writing. - (PT) The adoption of Directive 2006/112/EC was an important step in combating tax evasion.
For all its good points, however, it was not effective enough to tackle so-called 'carousel fraud' in VAT.
At this time of economic crisis, when the fight against tax fraud is all the more important given the seriousness of loss of revenue, we must make every effort to combat it, as this will have an important impact not only on our response to the current international crisis, but also on the possibility of pursuing the appropriate social policies.
In fact, Member States should have the option either to require transaction-by-transaction reporting or global transaction reporting.
It is with great conviction that I voted in favour of Mr Casa's report.
A common and particularly serious form of this fraud is known as carousel VAT fraud.
The total amount of uncollected income is estimated at between EUR 20 and 100 billion per annum.
That is a huge sum, and one that could certainly be put to good use in times of economic crisis.
Traders purchase carbon credits from VAT-free sources in other Member States and then sell them on to companies in their own Member State at a price including VAT.
If I am mistaken, I would be very grateful for a written reply on the suitability or inadequacy of the scheme I have proposed.
The resolution is designed to amend the Council VAT Directive 2006/112/EC in order to allow for temporary application of the reverse charge mechanism so as to combat fraud relating to the trade in emission certificates and transactions on certain goods susceptible to fraud.
That is why several of them have asked to be allowed to combat fraudulent mechanisms using a reverse charge mechanism targeted at certain sectors susceptible to fraud and certain goods.
The national Ministers of Finance do not therefore collect the VAT owing on the goods in question and have to reimburse the next trader upstream in the VAT chain for the VAT paid by them.
That is why I voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
The financial support from the Structural Funds can make a considerable contribution to the efforts made by national authorities to resolve this problem.
Both the European Parliament and the Council have asked the European Commission on repeated occasions to take action in favour of promoting the inclusion of these communities.
As a result of today's vote, we have received a new, amended regulation, which will enable all 27 Member States to use money from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) to renovate or replace housing in marginalised communities, thereby supporting the most disadvantaged groups in society.
The report's request that the reference to the Roma should not preclude interventions to help other socially marginalised groups offers no guarantee that other individuals who are 'socially marginalised', because of particularly difficult economic, work-related or family situations, can benefit from the portion of ERDF that is to go towards housing policies.
According to this agreement, once a legislative initiative request has been submitted to the European Parliament, the European Commission must answer within a month, and prepare a suitable piece of European Union legislation within a year.
If the European Union refuses to prepare the act requested, it will have to justify its decision in detail.
Until now, only the European Commission was able to initiate European Union legislation, but in the Treaty of Lisbon, it is provided that a majority of the European Parliament has the right to create European Union legislation.
in writing. - (PT) I am happy to vote in favour of this amendment to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) in order to extend the scope of its interventions in the housing sector so as to help marginalised communities in all the Member States.
This situation is particularly severe in Portugal due to the economic crisis that it is experiencing, and the extreme poverty of many families.
in writing. - I support this report which extends eligibility of housing interventions in marginalised communities to the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
Under the new rules, all Member States will be able to avail of such EU funding to improve the conditions of marginalised households previously unavailable to Member States which joined since 2004.
Physical degradation of housing stock denies its occupants the right to decent living conditions and is a major obstacle to integration and social cohesion.
This regulation will allow for housing renovation projects to draw on the ERDF but, in order to counter segregation risks, these initiatives must be part of a wider social integration framework in the fields of health, education and social affairs.
in writing. - (PT) The European Commission is attempting to alter the provisions of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) regulations to allow the new Member States to use these funds to intervene in the housing sector in favour of marginalised communities living in rural areas.
in writing. - (PT) In working to tackle poverty and improve living conditions for the most disadvantaged sectors of the population, where deprivation has been exacerbated by the severe crisis of the last few years, the European Union has a duty to safeguard and promote sustained policies for social inclusion.
If Europe is to have a more balanced society, it is just as vital that we avoid the emergence and expansion of ghettos or zones that are easily associated with a particular disadvantaged or marginalised community.
Policies on social inclusion also need to be aimed at those who are most in need of them without making any kind of distinction between European citizens.
in writing. - This regulation allows Member States to use the European Regional Development Fund in an integrated and sensible way.
First of all, I believed it necessary to widen the geographical perimeter of the motion to all 27 EU Member States, since the problems we intend to combat with this regulation arise throughout the European Union.
Secondly, I believed it was right to restore the previous version of the final part of Article 7 ('the Commission shall adopt', instead of 'may adopt'), so that the Commission can continue to fulfil its original regulatory brief of evaluating and deciding upon the criteria for interventions, in order to guarantee the policy's effectiveness and added value, also taking its cost into account.
It has a duty and the means to ensure this.
in writing. - (PT) The adoption of this report is very important, because it makes an amendment to the European Regional Development Fund that will help marginalised members of the public, whether or not they live in urban areas.
I voted for this report and I want to emphasise that such regular reviews of the texts regulating the use of European funds are welcome.
Many of the restrictions stipulated by these regulations are no longer suited to the current economic and social situation, thereby necessitating new forms of intervention.
The current worldwide economic crisis represents a difficult challenge for the European Union, which is in need of policies offering rapid, flexible and efficient responses.
With its total financial resources of EUR 347 billion for the programming period 2007-2013, the European Cohesion Policy is the greatest source of investment in the real economy, able to help Europe and its regions to recover from the crisis and to regain confidence and optimism.
This measure respects the principle of subsidiarity, increasing the ability of Member States to provide support and housing aid for marginalised communities, in whatever way they judge to be most appropriate, and, at the same time, maintaining the integrated approach as a minimum condition for implementing the aid.
Today's text will enable us to make the dreams of many people who wish to own their own homes come true.
The report provides for the possibility of using the ERDF for the renovation and replacement of existing buildings and for new structures designed to help marginalised communities in rural or urban environments in each of the 27 Member States.
This extension from the 12 States that joined in 2000 and 2007 to all the Member States offers solutions to the problems that insalubrious housing poses for certain marginalised communities throughout the EU.
It will thus be possible to establish an integrated and sustainable approach at EU level.
I am pleased that Parliament has voted for these amendments and I hope that the regions concerned will find it a useful tool for solving what is an urgent and fundamental problem for these communities.
During this serious economic crisis which has hit Europe and affected all the Member States, housing problems are now even worse.
The European Union had to intervene and use all the instruments at its disposal to come to the aid of badly-housed people, especially marginalised communities who were previously unable to benefit from ERDF resources.
The regions concerned will be able to replace unhealthy housing in socially excluded communities and develop global, integrated and lasting solutions to their housing problems.
Let us hope that it will be a step towards a social Europe close to the people.
in writing. - (PT) The report that we approved today alters the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) regulations, extending its scope in the housing sector in favour of marginalised communities, since currently, the fund can only be used within the context of urban development initiatives.
The amendments that I and my fellow Members proposed, and which were confirmed today in Parliament, mean that the older Member States, not only the new ones, as suggested in the original proposal by the Commission, can also benefit from this new source of funding from the ERDF.
I have also tried to prevent what I see as a precedent which would exclude the older Member States, particularly Portugal, from this funding, and possibly from using other additional sources of Community aid.
I would like to reiterate that the length of time for which a country has been a member of the European Union should not be a criterion for the allocation of structural funds, and that the post-2013 Cohesion Policy should continue to focus on the principle of solidarity, aimed at territorial cohesion, something which is crucial for the outermost regions, such as Madeira.
A large majority of these communities live in rural areas and in shelters (in both rural and urban areas).
Support for intervention in the housing sector in rural areas or to replace mediocre housing in urban or rural areas is not eligible for ERDF support.
The objective of the proposal is to provide acceptable housing conditions within the framework of an integrated approach.
in writing. - (PT) Fraud and tax evasion are an attack on the construction of a fairer, stronger and more equal Europe in terms of social and economic development.
The consequences of this have become all the more apparent and serious in this time of severe economic and financial crisis, as the budgets of the Member States have been particularly weakened and strained by the need for public investment and expenditure on social policy.
It is worth noting that tax fraud in the European Union stands at more than EUR 200 billion per year, which amounts to more than 2% of GDP.
Within the context of the open market and the free circulation of goods and people, the control and surveillance mechanisms have become ever more complex due to the inalienable rights of sovereignty of each Member State.
This proposal strengthens administrative cooperation between the EU Member States in the field of taxation, as the process of European integration shows a clear imbalance between the legislation produced and the mechanisms of control and surveillance.
We also have our doubts about the requirement for the automatic exchange of information about the tax habits of individuals, although there are some references to data protection, particularly in the report by Parliament.
in writing. - (FR) I voted resolutely against the Alvarez report on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, as I am sorry that the fight for citizens' freedoms, which Parliament is supposed to spearhead, is changeable and inconsistent.
The precedent in the field of taxation of savings should set alarm bells ringing.
in writing. - (PT) Since previous legislation, which made fraud and tax evasion a priority for the European Union, a series of legislative proposals have been adopted relating to this area.
Administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is a fundamental part of the common strategy to combat fraud and tax evasion.
Effective combating of tax evasion and fraud has a significant impact on national budgets and the loss of substantial revenue for general public expenditure, especially in health, education and research.
At this time of crisis, it is all the more important for us to use all the methods at our disposal to combat tax evasion and fraud in order to meet the exceptional costs that are necessary to remedy the effects of the crisis and to reduce the high budget deficits as much as possible.
The importance of the proposal lies in the serious consequences that tax fraud in the EU (estimated to exceed 2% of GDP) has on Member States' budgets, on the principle of fair taxation, which is weakened as a result of it, and on the operation of markets, because competition is distorted.
The proposal presented by the Commission is a step forward in meeting the need for more effective cooperation measures to combat fraud and tax evasion on a European scale.
The proposal will mean we can call on more effective cooperation measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, creating a reliable, easy-to-use and effective system.
This will help us achieve appropriate tax integration, an essential part of the European project and a further step towards the genuine harmonisation of tax policies.
Like the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I voted in favour of this report, which aims to step up the fight against fraud and tax evasion, since this fight is important in the context of the economic crisis that our Member States are experiencing.
According to some estimates, tax fraud amounts to EUR 200 billion, or 2% of GDP, and double the sums allotted by the European Union to the so-called European Economic Recovery Plan.
This is putting the smooth operation of the internal market at risk.
In order to improve the exchange of information between the various national authorities, it is also proposed to establish monitoring of cases in which the Member States have refused to provide information or to carry out an administrative enquiry.
All these measures help to combat tax fraud, which is why I voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
in writing. - (PT) It is curious that the European Commission acknowledges that 'the free movement provisions of the EU Treaty make it difficult for Member States to ask for guarantees for the payment of taxes due on their territory'.
The statistics show us that the overall recovery rate is just 5%.
I hope that we will actually manage to eliminate the deficiencies of existing measures which have resulted in a lack of transparency and coordination between states and in an unjustified delay in the recovery process.
The new directive is proposing to define more clearly the norms based on which the competent authorities in Member States provide assistance, along with the rights and obligations of the parties involved.
Standard instruments will be drawn up to facilitate enforcement or precautionary measures in order to avoid the problems linked to recognising and translating instruments issued by other authorities.
The Commission will support good cooperation between Member States and will constantly monitor any complaints received in connection with the exchange of information or assistance.
The current system for the recovery of claims relating to taxes, duties and other measures is characterised by slowness, disparity and a lack of coordination and transparency.
The introduction of a uniform standard form for notification of instruments and decisions relating to the claim will resolve the problems of recognition and translation of instruments emanating from another Member State.
The Council Directive aims to fundamentally revise the functioning of mutual assistance for the recovery of claims relating to taxes, duties and other measures.
The administrative authorities are unable to recover taxes and duties themselves outside their own Member State.
The first provisions concerning mutual assistance for recovery were established in Directive 76/308/EEC (consolidated in Directive 2008/55/EC) on mutual assistance for the recovery of claims relating to certain levies, duties, taxes and other measures.
However, this instrument proved to be inadequate in terms of responding to changes in the internal market over the last 30 years.
It is therefore necessary to repeal the current directive and make provision for an improved system of assistance for recovery within the internal market that will guarantee fast, effective and uniform procedures throughout the European Union.
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution.
I voted in favour of this resolution and in favour of the financial aid the European Union will provide for long-term support, which will be managed in partnership with local authorities and the people of Haiti.
This money must be used to address the fundamental reasons for poverty in Haiti, to help the country strengthen its democratic structure and to build a sustainable economy.
Conditions in Haiti have improved recently, thank God, and humanitarian aid is being distributed effectively and in order of priority; this is thanks to the cooperation and the coordination of international organisations, non-governmental organisations and the people of Haiti who have all been working together.
The European Union, like the entire international community, is facing an important test of solidarity with regard to the situation in Haiti.
The forthcoming EU summit must present a decisive, well-coordinated solution, with a single voice, to meet the needs for reconstruction and aid which Haiti is experiencing as a consequence of one of the greatest natural disasters in modern history.
The call from the European Parliament and request submitted to the European Commission to come up with a specific proposal to set up a Civil Protection Force which can respond quickly in the event of a natural disaster anywhere in the world must be answered.
The 'Haiti Lesson' must not be forgotten and the European Union must show, in this case, not only that it knows what solidarity means, but also that it is an adaptable and flexible institution which is learning from the current painful events.
I welcome the commitment that the EU has made to provide aid to the people of Haiti following the earthquake that hit the country in January.
Before the earthquake, more than 70% of people in Haiti were living below the poverty line, and the country's foreign debt amounted to USD 890 million.
The international community now has a duty to contribute to drawing up a strategy of reconstruction for the country which will be sustainable in the short, medium and long terms.
This is a critical time in the coordination of reconstruction efforts between international aid donors, the Haitian authorities and civil society, and I welcome the recent decision by the G7 to write off Haiti's debts, including debts to multilateral credit institutions.
It is vital that we help this country to recover from the earthquake, but the international community must also take advantage of this opportunity to help to resolve the economic, social and political inequalities within Haiti.
in writing. - (PT) The earthquake which struck the island of Haiti on 12 January 2010, killing thousands of people and causing terrible devastation and chaos, calls for our firm solidarity with the people of Haiti.
I had the pleasure and honour of contributing to the drafting of this resolution by Parliament.
I would also like to thank the Member States, NGOs and civil society for all the humanitarian aid that they have provided.
The earthquake which devastated Haiti on 12 January, leaving 200 000 dead and approximately 250 000 injured, has prompted the European Union Member States and the entire international community to engage in a tangible and shared commitment to reconstruct the country.
I believe it is essential to direct this joint effort so that the reconstruction is sustainable in the medium and long term, and so that the population of Haiti is the main beneficiary of this commitment.
I add my voice to the appeal by international humanitarian organisations to prevent the enormous number of children orphaned as a result of the earthquake becoming victims of human traffickers.
I therefore believe that we need a plan to supervise such an emergency, ensuring that the primary needs of the weakest groups in the community take first place amongst the priorities of Europe and the United States.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the earthquake in Haiti, which caused 200 000 deaths and 250 000 casualties.
I would like to express my heartfelt condolences and solidarity with the people of Haiti and other nations, the staff of international organisations, including the UN and the European Commission, and the families of the victims of this tragedy.
I would like to emphasise the hard work of some EU Member States through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, coordinated by the Monitoring and Information Centre.
I also welcome the proposal to undertake an assessment of the European response to the humanitarian crisis in Haiti, so that the European Commission can present proposals for improving the capability of the EU to respond rapidly to future disasters.
in writing. - (PT) 12 January 2010 will go down in Haitian history as one of the most terrible days that the country has ever experienced.
The tens of thousands of fatalities recorded in statistics that were already outdated by the time they were issued and the anguish and despair in the eyes of those who have lost everything more than justified the mobilisation of the international community and civil society throughout the world, and I must commend these efforts.
In spite of international efforts, the reconstruction of the country can only take place if those in charge and the citizens themselves are capable of taking the lead in the process and assuming their respective responsibilities.
in writing. - (PT) The calamity that hit Haiti, following a violent earthquake on 12 January this year, presented a new challenge to solidarity between people and nations.
By virtue of its history and cultural identity, not to mention its importance in the global economy, the European Union must act as an example and encourage aid for the Haitians and the reconstruction of one of the poorest countries on earth.
However, the conditions for the promotion of sustainable development within the country must already have been assessed and ensured so that we can counter the situation of extreme poverty which affects a huge number of people within the country.
Beyond incentives for profitable farming, industrialisation and the sustainable cycle of development for the marketing of products, I believe that support for the implementation of a robust strategy for environmental improvement is crucial, since Haiti is a blatant and dramatic example of the devastating impact that climate change can have on humanity.
in writing. - (PT) In the face of the dramatic scenes of complete destruction in Haiti, we need prompt, effective and genuine solidarity that will help to mitigate the suffering of the Haitian people.
There also needs to be rejection and condemnation of any attempt to exploit the tragedy of the Haitian people by military occupation of their country, along with the unequivocal defence of Haiti's sovereignty and independence - something that is missing from the document in question.
It is regrettable that the resolution has come much later than the statements by certain Heads of State and UN officials about the deployment of tens of thousands of US troops in the country.
The response of the EU on welcoming the resolution was 'the Council's decision to send 350 military police officers'.
in writing. - (PT) We believe that this is a time for giving all the humanitarian aid, cooperation and support for reconstruction that the people of Haiti deserve, given their dignity and courage.
We have already denounced the way in which certain parties, particularly the US, have been more concerned with bolstering their military presence within the country with their troops than with the people of Haiti.
It would have been a good start to denounce anyone or any country that seeks to profit from this catastrophe by returning to neocolonialism.
Such an attitude seems to be behind the deployment of thousands of armed North American troops, despite the fact that the majority of the population live in poverty and remain victims of exploitation by multinational companies and the interference of external bodies, particularly the United States.
We have supported this resolution with the clear aim of sending the message that the European Parliament and Labour MEPs stand side-by-side with the people of Haiti in the long-term work of rebuilding the infrastructure, communities and lives which have been torn apart.
We were particularly pleased in this resolution to highlight the decision of Britain and the other G7 countries to cancel their claims on Haiti's international debt and to call on other nations to follow.
We do not however agree with paragraph 24 of the resolution as we believe that any proposal for improvement of EU disaster response should be made with full consultation and deliberation, and not simply in the context and immediate aftermath of one humanitarian tragedy, however appalling.
in writing. - In recent weeks, we have all seen horrific footage of the situation which has hit the people of Haiti.
in writing. - According to the Haitian authorities, the total loss of life after the earthquake exceeds 230 000 persons.
Finally, some colleagues have questioned Baroness Ashton's decision not to visit Haiti immediately after the earthquake.
The number of those in need of outside assistance is estimated at two to three million.
It is obvious that the EU High Representative must be responsible in future for ensuring that the Union reacts faster and with greater coordination.
The philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein proposed the idea that no distress can be greater than what a single person can suffer.
I imagine that he meant something like this: there is no greater unit of consciousness in the world than the consciousness of a single individual.
I think that the EU needs to promote better coordination and a higher profile in supporting the Haitian state.
We must think about the future and the ways in which we can act more quickly and efficiently in such situations.
in writing. - The devastating earthquake in Haiti last month caused catastrophic damage, and the global relief effort will need to be long-term and committed.
I am pleased that the EU has responded swiftly with EUR 196 million so far in assistance.
in writing. - (PT) Besides causing many fatalities, the earthquake that struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 continues to affect the daily lives of about 3 million people who are in critical need of humanitarian aid.
The role of the EU's foreign policy has been clarified, and the values that the EU is trying to promote are aimed at, amongst other things, contributing to world peace and security, and the protection of human rights.
Thus, we should welcome all efforts undertaken by Member States in order to help the country to emerge from this catastrophe as a fully functioning democracy, with an economy that can support its population.
We should also bear in mind that the Haitian people must always be an integral part of the whole reconstruction process, along with their government.
Haiti will only be able to achieve the political, economic and social stability it needs if its country's freedom is protected from foreign interference.
Furthermore, I support the measures adopted by the countries of the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (financial aid through the Humanitarian Fund, energy support and promotion of farming and production initiatives) which are proof of the brotherly solidarity that exists between the different countries.
For the people of Haiti it is, of course, important that the infrastructure and the institutions of the state are rebuilt in the long term.
However, we must not forget that the distribution of aid is not going smoothly and that many women and children are in a very vulnerable situation.
The scale of the disaster is exacerbated by the fact that the destructive action of the earthquake affected one of the poorest countries in the world.
Humanitarian aid must not stop only at reconstruction of the island, but must involve restructuring of the social relations which operate there, in a spirit of respect for human dignity and social justice.
For this to be possible, it is essential not only to give Haiti non-refundable aid, but also to make sure that the country and its society are given a fresh start.
Taking all these factors into account, I decided to support the joint motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the recent earthquake in Haiti.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recent earthquake in Haiti.
In Haiti, only the United States was able to provide effective humanitarian aid without bureaucratic delay.
In this resolution, which I support fully, Parliament calls on the international community to ensure that the Haitian people and their government are the main actors in the reconstruction process, so that they can be masters of their own destiny.
I would like to commend the efforts at unity made by the various political groups in Parliament, which have allowed the home of European democracy to speak with one voice and emphasised the strong pragmatic bent of this resolution, which suggests ways, solutions and specific measures for the EU to deal with the Iranian regime.
In view of this, I would like to highlight the need: a) to strongly condemn businesses that supply the Iranian authorities with equipment and technology which is aimed at censorship and surveillance, and which should be prohibited for European businesses; b) to request, or better, demand, acknowledgement of the absolute necessity of respect for the Vienna Convention and the rules of diplomacy; c) to introduce more sanctions for Iranian organisations or officials who are operating abroad and who are responsible for the repression and restriction of freedoms in Iran, along with those linked to the violation of Iran's international commitments relating to the nuclear issue; and d) despite everything, to promote continued and deeper dialogue with Iran, especially with civil society.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Iran, as I am worried by the continual violations of human rights there, particularly with regard to freedom of association, expression and information, and because I support the democratic wishes of the Iranian people.
For all that the fundamentalist regime of the ayatollahs proclaims that its intentions are good and that it is pursuing nuclear energy for peaceful ends, the international community is not convinced and, justifiably, views Iran as a growing threat.
In addition to denouncing from the very outset the brutal repression that has fallen on Iranian moderates, the European Union and its allies and other international players must fight to strengthen and toughen the sanctions against Tehran and not rule out any concerted effort to tackle this threat.
in writing. - (PT) We defend freedom of expression and democracy, and we agree with the need to express our concern with the developments in Iran over recent months, particularly those relating to repression of the masses by the Iranian security forces.
We should not forget that these elements also threaten the rights of the Iranian people and the very forces that are continuing the struggle for democracy, progress and social justice in Iran.
The adopted text does not make any mention of this.
The right to determine the future course of Iran belongs exclusively to the Iranian people and their political and social action.
We would like to express our solidarity with the democratic organisations and the people of Iran who are fighting for social justice and progress in their country.
I supported the resolution condemning Iran's attitude both from the point of view of its intentions in the nuclear sector and in the attacks on freedom of expression to which its people fall victim on a daily basis.
in writing. - (PT) The current social upheaval in Iran, the systematic repression of the people and those who oppose the regime, the restrictions on freedom of the press and freedom of expression, the failure to abolish the death penalty and the continued pursuit of a nuclear programme against the international community are reasons for massive concern.
Even more worrying is the news that last month, Iran successfully tested a new long-range missile, thus jeopardising regional and global security.
The recent cancellation of the planned visit by Parliament's delegation is another clear signal that this country is not willing to cooperate.
There are many countries where democracy and human rights are in a precarious position.
The EU must continue its attempts to change this situation by means of appeals and similar methods.
The situation can only be defused by the use of diplomacy, but the EU must not let itself be taken advantage of by the US in this respect.
The motion for a resolution states that no significant progress has been made and that dialogue is the only solution.
I would like to express my support for the resolution, whose objective is to state clearly the position of the European Union on respect for fundamental human rights in Iran.
The sentencing of Mohammed Reza Alizamani and Arash Rahmani to death for political activity is, in my opinion, a contravention of all standards held in the modern world.
I am glad the EU is taking a very clear position on this matter.
It is extremely important for us to reopen the dialogue with Iran.
The opponents of the Iranian Government are also against the imposition of more stringent sanctions, because their main impact would be on the people of the country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on Iran, particularly following the recent attacks, including yesterday's attacks against the Italian and French embassies.
In fact, the European Union must make itself the spokesperson for a clear stance on the regime in Tehran.
The Iranian authorities play a part in stirring up this dangerous climate of intolerance and intimidation towards certain European Union countries.
The attack on the embassies was perpetrated by those who want to clip the wings of democracy and who are against freedom.
in writing. - (PT) Yemen is threatening to become the new Afghanistan: al-Qaeda's favourite training camp and a hotbed for the spread of fundamentalists and terrorists throughout the Islamic world.
The situation of social, political and economic degradation, if not complete breakdown, which is marked by civil war and the absence of any government that might effectively control its whole territory, have turned the country into a place without the law or order that might halt the emergence and growth of these outbreaks of violence and radicalism.
The solution is to provide more development aid in order to pull the rug from under the feet of some of the jihadist recruits.
Instead, it must take the position of an impartial broker, in order to bring about dialogue and pave the way for a long-term political solution.
This motion for a resolution takes a similar approach, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - Whilst I agree with the thrust of, and was involved in the drafting of, this resolution on the current situation in Yemen, I cannot agree with the reference it makes to the coordinating role that the future EU External Action Service will play with regard to Yemen.
I asked to have references to the EAS removed during the drafting stage, but other political groups refused.
The EAS is to have a network of 'EU embassies' and, under the watchful eye of the new EU High Representative/Vice-President of the Commission, is to be responsible for creating and implementing EU military and foreign policy.
I have been a long-time opponent of the EU having a role in these two policy fields, which I sincerely believe must remain the sole prerogative of the sovereign Member States.
If there were not open borders within the EU, and each country had its own immigration policy, serious organised crime and people-trafficking would be much easier to stamp out.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because we must ensure that both practical and moral priority be given to tackling the issue of human trafficking and the way in which this trafficking is used as a resource in the labour market.
Under the Lisbon Treaty, the European Union has both the power and the opportunity to strengthen European policy in relation to human trafficking.
As I said during the debate on this resolution, this issue must be given an important place on the agenda.
in writing. - Trafficking in human beings is one of the most horrific and serious crimes.
The fight cannot be effective without a coherent policy approach focusing on prevention, protection of victims and effective sanctions for traffickers.
Free movement within the EU has brought substantial benefits to our citizens but, at the same time, has opened many ways for traffickers.
Tens of thousands of young women and children from new Member States become victims of human trafficking every year.
The European Parliament will have a crucial role to play in combating trafficking in human beings.
It will be for us to ensure that prevention, protection and support for victims are put high on the political agenda.
We must demand that Member States fully implement current EU policies and other instruments on trafficking in human beings and ensure that tougher penalties and sanctions are put into place.
I voted for this resolution because the European Union must combat illegal immigration and human trafficking.
With growing unemployment, there will be an increase in the number of people who may become victims of human trafficking or may be exploited for forced labour.
Above all, people who have lost their jobs in their own country, who have lost hope for a better life, will seek success elsewhere.
Such a situation can be exploited by criminal gangs.
Sexual exploitation in conditions akin to slavery is particularly prevalent in Eastern Europe, which is like a transit route for trafficking human beings to the west.
We must prepare a strategy of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, in which most attention is devoted to fighting human trafficking, to prevention and to the protection of victims and penalties.
All Member States must take severe measures to fight against human trafficking, ensuring the coordination of national legislation.
We must strive for closer cooperation among all the interested parties on the question of human trafficking.
in writing. - (PT) This modern form of slavery has seen an alarming increase in recent years, and has become organised crime's third most lucrative activity.
In 2009, the UN estimated that there were 270 000 victims and Europol recorded no decrease in the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation, noting an increase in the number trafficked for forced labour.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, I urge the Commission to present a new proposal as soon as possible, making the creation of a coherent European policy on effectively fighting the trafficking in human beings one of its main priorities.
At the same time, we must ensure that there is adequate protection for victims and witnesses through immediate assistance.
Efforts must also be made to make the most of instruments that, unfortunately, continue to be underused in this field by bodies including Europol, Eurojust and Frontex.
I firmly believe in and support the setting up of a permanent platform at European Union level, which will guarantee that human trafficking policies cover aspects linked to both social matters and social integration, as well as the adoption of suitable and effective programmes to support the social reintegration of victims, including measures relating to the labour market and social insurance system.
We feel that the original wording of paragraphs 13 and 15 regarding the distinction between victims of human trafficking and irregular immigrants and concerning residence permits for people who have been exposed to trafficking is preferable, but we are voting in favour of the amendments to these paragraphs in order to achieve a compromise.
This is a first step.
We prefer to see the resolution being adopted now and will continue to work towards victims of human trafficking being granted permanent residency.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution on preventing trafficking in human beings as I believe that it is extremely important to step up the battle against human trafficking, which has assumed alarming proportions and constitutes a serious violation of fundamental human rights.
The draft directive which is due to be tabled shortly before Parliament for consideration must stipulate tough penalty measures at European level against any person involved in this kind of trafficking.
From this perspective, a cross-border approach is also required to tackle this scourge by stepping up cooperation with countries of origin and transit, in some of which human traffickers have only negligible fines imposed on them.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention of trafficking in human beings by supporting the need for the Commission and the Council to ensure that the fight against this scourge will continue to have a prominent place among their priorities, even in times of economic and financial crisis.
Member States that have not yet done so should fully implement all the EU policies on trafficking in human beings at national level and ratify other legal instruments in this field as soon as possible in order to ensure greater protection and assistance for victims of trafficking.
in writing. - (PT) The trafficking of human beings today is, for its victims, an inhumane present-day form of slavery.
Sadly, this terrible reality also takes place within the European Union.
There must be a three-pronged approach: (i) sufficient protection for the victims, who are mostly women and children, safeguarding their most fundamental rights, such as life, freedom, physical and moral integrity and sexual self-determination; (ii) preventative measures in the investigation and dismantling of networks that promote and profit from human trafficking; and, finally, (iii) severe punishment for trafficking and exploiting human beings for whatever nefarious purposes, and penalties commensurate with the crimes committed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have voted against this resolution on trafficking in human beings, even though it is one of the most despicable crimes there is.
We have done so, firstly, because you are exploiting it politically in order to further increase the powers of the Europe of Brussels, of its institutions and of its numerous agencies, which nonetheless continue to demonstrate their inefficiency.
We have done so, secondly, and above all, because you are using the attention that would normally be paid to the victims in order to create a new suction pump effect where immigration is concerned: social and legal assistance, an automatic residence card, access to the job market, simplified access to family reunification and social welfare.
The current legal framework within the Union for combating human trafficking is insufficient, so it is essential that the European Union, drawing upon the mandate provided by the Treaty of Lisbon, undertake much more vigorous action against this phenomenon, with particular regard for the protection of, and assistance to, groups at risk, especially children.
It is also important to involve civil society as much as possible in institutional action to eliminate human trafficking, and to initiate information and awareness campaigns for the groups most at risk.
Mr President, I endorsed adoption of the resolution on human trafficking.
I hope the European Parliament will contribute to the restriction and, in the future, complete elimination of human trafficking.
in writing. - The ECR Group are united in the view that the trade in human beings is intolerable and should be stopped.
However, we have grave reservations about the adequacy of this resolution in tackling the root causes that lead to human trafficking and hence we have chosen to vote against.
The ECR Group feel that this resolution takes a 'victim-centred approach' which prescribes how Member States should look after victims once they have been trafficked, thus assuming that the incidence of human trafficking is inevitable.
The ECR Group have, however, along with the EPP, signed a resolution calling for enhanced cooperation between Member States, police and border control agencies where personal data can be safeguarded and where the care of a victim can be decided by individual Member States.
in writing. - (PT) Trafficking in people violates the most basic human rights and is a form of slavery based on sexual and labour exploitation.
International estimates state that trafficking in people is the third most lucrative illegal trade.
Now that the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force, European Union action on judicial and police cooperation has clearly been strengthened.
The fight against trafficking in human beings must be one of the main aims of the European Union and Parliament's role as colegislator means that it will have to play a central role in this.
The fight against trafficking in human beings should therefore continue be one of the EU's top priorities, even in times of economic and financial crisis.
I fully endorse the motion for a resolution on preventing trafficking in human beings, which was submitted by a broad coalition of the European Parliament's political groups.
Human trafficking is a growing market, comparable nowadays to drug or arms trafficking, and is a phenomenon which has spread all over the world, but is more acute in underdeveloped countries.
We need to coordinate information better in order to combat this growing phenomenon more effectively.
If the European Union wants to take the lead on respecting human rights, it should be more actively involved in cooperating with third countries in order to help put a stop to this phenomenon.
Furthermore, there is also a need for better funding for the programmes aimed at combating human trafficking and for more effective coordination between the institutions in Member States involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
The number of victims of this modern form of slavery rises from year to year.
The detection rate for this type of crime is very low.
A report presented in January 2010 by the Legal Aid Centre and the La Strada Foundation entitled 'Preventing Trafficking in Women from Central and Eastern Europe.
In 2005, the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings was signed in Warsaw.
My vote in favour should not, however, be seen as support for the amendments in the resolution which involve the transfer of more power from the Member States to the EU, such as: allowing the EU to set tougher sanctions in this area, references to the Treaty of Lisbon strengthening EU action in criminal matters, and the establishment of a superordinate legislative framework in this area.
I voted in favour of resolution, Trafficking in human beings, because it concerns a very important matter and points out a long list of things that need to be done in the fight against human trafficking.
However, my support for the resolution is not to be seen as support for the proposals in the resolution that involve more power being transferred from the Member States to the EU, such as allowing the EU to set tougher sanctions in this area, the reference to the Treaty of Lisbon strengthening EU action in criminal matters and the establishment of superordinate legislation in this area.
I voted in favour of the resolution because I personally am involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings in Slovakia.
The Commission is called upon to take initiatives, especially on information and prevention, in order to identify the root causes of trafficking and the factors in countries of origin and destination that facilitate trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the EU needs to create a new development paradigm in order to tackle climate change.
The next revised version of the budget must provide sufficient resources for measures that can meet this important challenge.
We cannot lose sight of our commitment to combating climate change.
As Europeans, we must commit to a target reduction in CO2 of more than 20% by 2010.
I also believe that the initiatives being devised within the EU to promote and encourage the green economy, energy security and reducing dependence must remain a priority.
The EU could draw inspiration for its policies from my region, the Azores, about 30% of whose energy already comes from renewable sources.
The EU was ready to become the leader of this meeting and return with a legally binding treaty, but the meeting ended with very little clarity on how the fight against climate change should develop further.
The EU's ambitious 20-20-20 may simply remain a distant dream if this matter is not resolved at global level.
The EU, with its External Action Service, must begin to lead the strategy on diplomacy in the area of climate change as soon as possible and ensure that, above all, Europe speaks with one voice in talks with other countries and maintains the principled position, so that there can be a compulsory international climate change agreement as quickly as possible.
Once again, I would like to voice my disappointment with the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit, and I call upon the EU to resume its leading role in the fight against climate change and contribute to bringing about a legally binding agreement with measurable, communicable and verifiable reduction aims at COP 16, to take place this year in Mexico.
If European industry is to be more competitive and create more jobs, it is essential to invest in a sustainable future that will encompass climate protection, energy security, a reduction in energy independence and the efficient use of resources.
The fact that the summit in Copenhagen is generally described as a 'deplorable failure' of an attempt to reach a global agreement on limiting the greenhouse emissions which are heating up the Earth's climate only serves to highlight the total lack of coordination among EU Member States with regard to the US and the emerging countries.
The Copenhagen agreement does not even set a target in terms of an acceptable limit for the global temperature increase.
However, I am hoping for a positive outcome and a strong European voice on limiting the effects of climate change at the meeting which will take place in February of next year, when the world's nations are called to present their plans on how they intend to cut emissions by 2020.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the joint resolution on the results of the Copenhagen conference as I broadly agree with the content of the proposed measures, and two in particular.
The efforts of not only the EU, but also of China and the US, are essential to this, as explained in points 5 and 15 of the document.
The second point I wish to emphasise is the need for developing countries/emerging economies to adopt the rules on climate change that apply to EU Member States.
In the light of this, I and some of my colleagues have advocated the introduction of a carbon tax on the import of products from third countries so that this idea can progress towards being considered in future, which I think is a particularly important step.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the results of the Copenhagen Summit on climate change.
The outcome of the 15th Conference of the Parties (COP 15) was disappointing.
New climate policies, particularly within the context of the general crisis, must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not in any way call into question the economic sustainability of European nations.
in writing. - (PT) The EU has always acted as a leader in international negotiations on climate change.
However, despite its ambition, the last climate conference in Copenhagen was a failure for all those who were determined to reach a binding agreement.
Given the disappointing outcome of the Copenhagen Summit, Parliament wants to send a clear signal to the European public and the world that it remains committed to fighting climate change.
We are now preparing the way for the next conference in Mexico, where there should be a greater effort towards commitment from all parties.
We must ask ourselves what went wrong during those negotiations and think about how to proceed if we are to include the US, China and India.
Importantly, it insists on the effectiveness of market instruments such as trading in emission licences, while ignoring their ineffectiveness and the perversity that has already been shown in their use.
At the same time, the need to respect the sovereignty of developing countries in defining and implementing the so-called adaptation strategies is rejected.
No fair and sustainable solution to the problem of climate change or other environmental problems can come out of the irrational system that caused them in the first place.
The main weakness of COP 15 was a failure to appreciate: the sensitivity of third countries and developing countries, and also some EU countries, to 'climate justice'; the fact that the two greatest superpowers, the USA and China, are competing with each other both economically and militarily; and the fact that the 'ambitious' plans to limit CO2 emissions were based on the paradigm of anthropogenic climate warming, which does not have a great deal of scientific credibility.
These decisions must not, therefore, be based on the opinions of people who are putting into practice a thesis which has been established in advance - the theory that it is mankind which is causing global warming.
On the matter of climate change, which is so important for the whole of civilisation, the time has come for the European Commission to base its actions on its own meta-analysis of climate research, which should be carried out by a team of climatologists which is independent of the opinions of the Commission and free from all political pressure.
These last two stipulations are missing from the resolution, and I therefore voted against its adoption.
We saw in Copenhagen how the rest of the world regards the Union's 'leadership' where climate change is concerned.
My vote on this resolution expressed my disappointment with the agreement finally reached in Copenhagen at the end of 2009, an agreement which I consider to be inadequate, unambitious and lacking in any quantified commitment.
I also regret that the amendment tabled by my group to create a tax of 0.01% per annum on financial transactions in order to finance efforts to combat climate change in the poorest and most directly affected countries to the tune of EUR 20 billion per annum was not adopted.
in writing. - The Copenhagen Summit was very much a missed opportunity in efforts to tackle climate change.
My own country, Scotland, has adopted the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world whilst the Scottish Government's recent collaboration with the government of the Maldives serves as a model for international agreement.
This resolution includes some not insignificant advances on the part of the groups on the right that signed it: mention of the IPCC's work, which refers to climate change, a call for greater involvement by civil society in the work of the Mexico conference, a call to the EU to push its targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond the 20% proposed for 2020.
Similarly, the proposed aim of moving towards a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is a long way from the 40% recommended by the IPCC.
in writing. - (PT) The great hopes surrounding the much-vaunted Copenhagen Summit have been dashed.
The countries with the greatest responsibility in this matter did not reach a consensus on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
All countries, from the USA to the so-called emerging countries, including China, which are heavy polluters, must also accept their responsibilities in a fight that is leaving less and less room for new opportunities.
If nothing is done in time, we could reach the point of no return.
The European Union must, for once and for all, take responsibility and do everything possible so that CO2 emissions are reduced by 40% by 2020.
The climate agreement which the EU should promote must have three basic features: it should be legally binding, should show solidarity and should be ambitious.
The decision made during the EU summit in Seville, according to which the EU will not limit its emissions in 2020 by more than 20% in comparison with 1990, should be viewed with alarm.
To draw lessons from the failure of the Copenhagen Summit: that is the priority of the European Parliament with this resolution that I have voted for.
We know what is wrong: the UN method no longer works, the United States and China have behaved like adversaries in the fight against climate deregulation and the European Union has been unable to speak with one voice.
While we know what is wrong, we still need to come up with the remedies so that we may reach an agreement in Cancn in November 2010.
In order to retain its leadership, Europe will have to demonstrate an innovative approach to the climate issue and offer something other than the sole target of a global reduction in emissions via the highly speculative system of a market for greenhouse gas emissions, a tool that the US Government has, moreover, just rejected.
It is time to change to a different method and to propose a 'technological' bridge between industrialised countries and regions and micro-States chiefly exposed to climate change.
The Copenhagen conference on climate change did not produce a solution and did not manage to agree any final resolutions or decisions concerning the scope and scale of restrictions on emissions or the financial means which will be used for this purpose.
in writing. - Clearly, while the summit in Copenhagen was seen as disappointing in its final outcomes, there is much to commend further efforts.
It is on the issues outlined by many scientists and other observers that citizens are making up their minds to support climate change proposals.
This Parliament must continue to support this approach.
Furthermore, the lack of an international agreement is no reason to postpone further EU policy measures to implement previous EU pledges to cut our emissions by 20% by 2020.
Parliament reiterates its aim of increasing this reduction to 30%.
It is good that this House is expressly stating that the initiatives taken in order to promote and incentivise the green economy, energy security and the limiting of energy dependence will make it easier and easier to obtain an undertaking to achieve a reduction of 30%.
Thus, also, it is important to recognise that the EU's collective contribution to the efforts to achieve a reduction and to fund the adaptation needs of the developing countries for 2020 cannot be below an amount of EUR 30 billion per annum.
I have voted against the resolution.
I abstained on the European Parliament's resolution on the Copenhagen Summit because it does not prove a match for the failure of that summit, even if the European Parliament has clearly condemned the European Union's shortcomings on that occasion.
Finally, I regret the rejection of the call for the creation of a green Tobin tax, the income from which would have helped developing countries to combat climate change.
No lasting, serious or coherent solution to climate change can be found in the rationale behind the system that created it.
Parliament has also announced that the collective contribution by the Union towards efforts to reduce climate change and to help developing countries adapt should be no less than EUR 30 000 million per annum between now and 2020, knowing that this figure may increase as new knowledge comes to light on the seriousness of climate change and the costs involved.
Not only does this accord fail to offer a suitable response in the international struggle against climate change, but it also fails to resolve the problem of the distorted conditions of international competition.
in writing. - I abstained on the vote on the Domenici report despite the vast majority of sensible proposals contained in it.
in writing. - (PT) We welcome the explicit statement in the report that it: 'Strongly condemns the role played by tax havens in encouraging and profiteering from tax avoidance, tax evasion and capital flight; urges the Member States, therefore, to make the fight against the tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight a priority'.
We also support the statement that with 'the efforts made as part of OECD-led initiatives' the 'results remain insufficient to cope with the challenges presented by tax havens and offshore centres and must be followed by decisive, effective and consistent action' and even that 'the commitments made by the G20 to date are not sufficient to address the challenges posed by tax evasion, tax havens and off-shore centres'.
For you, good governance in tax matters is not about the fight against fraud, bearable taxation or good use of public funds.
What is more, I am not talking here about big companies or very wealthy individuals, who will always have the means to slip through the net, but about the average European.
Because public expenditure has exploded in order to bear the social consequences of your economic policies and the exorbitant costs of mass immigration.
Because the Member States can no longer fund their debt unless they resort to the markets and abide by their conditions, which means that, today, 15 to 20% of the budgetary expenditure of a State such as France covers only its interest payments.
That is why I voted against recital 25.
in writing. - The current economic crisis has highlighted a number of vital areas in which reform must be made within Europe and across the wider world.
Good governance in tax matters is very much an important element in a healthy economy and the EU has a key role to play in promoting international good governance in these matters.
in writing. - Tax fraud and tax evasion result in an estimated EUR 200 billion being lost each year - money stolen from taxpayers in the rich world and the neediest in the developing world.
This scourge must be tackled, and my delegation supports this report which sends a strong message that the European Parliament will not tolerate fraud, evasion or tax havens operating with impunity.
Those who oppose these calls are acting in the interests of a tiny elite of wealthy individuals and corporations who make use of tax havens, and against the many who pay tax and rely on the services it pays for.
The report also asks for an analysis of possible options for sanctions against tax havens, which we support without prejudice to a final position.
in writing. - (PT) Good tax governance is essential to provide guarantees in extremely important areas such as the principles of transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition.
This initiative marks an important signal from the EU to third countries, sending out the message that it is effectively combating everything about tax havens.
Fighting tax havens all over the world is not solely a matter of justice in tax but, above all, one of social justice.
We must implement a policy of good governance, both within and outside the European Union, not least to oppose unfair tax competition, particularly with those countries that represent tax havens.
Transparency and the physical exchange of information are the foundations of fair competition and of a fair distribution of the tax burden.
Moreover, good tax governance is an important pre-condition for preserving the integrity of financial markets.
The motions on administrative cooperation and on mutual assistance for recovery, which we are adopting in this plenary session, are taking us in this direction.
At the international level, one of the instruments that the EU can use to promote good governance in tax matters in third countries is to negotiate tax fraud agreements with them, which include a clause on an exchange of information.
The statements of the five countries with which the EU has a savings agreement (Monaco, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra and San Marino) are an important step towards the end of a situation of complete imbalance.
The EU must also act as a driving force in this sector, setting a good example and following through what the G20 summit has already set in motion.
In recent years, the subject has been discussed during European and international summits, with particular regard to combating tax evasion and tax havens.
There is certainly evidence of commitment and will by the Commission, but we must undoubtedly implement a serious policy to prevent tax evasion by front companies that evade tax laws with a simple click of a mouse through the Internet.
I am sure that the principle of good governance, based on the principle of transparency and exchange of information, can constitute the basis for pursuing the European Union's priority aim of combating tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight.
The European Union must also speak with a single voice internationally, and fight for the improvement of OECD standards to achieve the automatic exchange of information, instead of exchange on request.
I have voted in favour of the report promoting good governance in tax matters, because I am of the opinion that combating tax fraud and tax evasion effectively is of the greatest importance.
Furthermore, we must overcome the blockade on tax issues in the Council of Ministers and reinforce good governance in the area of taxation.
I am in favour of international cooperation on tax evasion, but I doubt that administrative cooperation leading to the automatic exchange of all data concerning the assets of European citizens is the best way of achieving fair taxation.
It destroys the protection of individual data which, paradoxically, the European Parliament wishes to safeguard in the SWIFT dossier.
This logic is just as much a part of tax fraud as it is of European neoliberalism, which is much more responsible than fraud for the failure of the Millennium Development Goals, however timorous.
We believe that measures at national level are more appropriate in this domain.
It stresses that the economic, financial and social crisis which has the European Union and the rest of the world in its grip has a real impact on women, their working conditions, their place in society and equality between women and men in the European Union.
in writing. - I would like to explain my voting pattern in relation to the Tarabella report entitled 'Equality between women and men in the European Union - 2009'.
Malta is against abortion.
The main political parties are in complete agreement on this issue.
In addition, the religious and moral aspects are an important element.
These differences between men and women have been particularly exacerbated by the current economic, financial and social crisis.
These are very sensitive topics and, according to the subsidiarity principle, they are a matter for the individual Member States.
I voted for this report, because with the complicated economic, financial and social situation, it is more important than ever to implement one of the most important fundamental principles of the European Union - equality between men and women.
It is very important that paternity leave is enshrined in the directive sooner to create conditions for fathers to contribute to child care.
The victims of human trafficking are mostly women.
Therefore, I call on those Member States which have yet to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings to do so without delay.
I voted against the resolution on equality between women and men in the European Union (2009), even though I agree with a great deal of its content, because we cannot call for equality for a certain category of people without denying it to another category of human beings.
We cannot talk about the drama of abortion, which deserves the attention of politicians as well as moralists, without also recognising the rights of newborns or at least calling for proper education as far as respect for life is concerned and organising forms of support for difficult or unwanted pregnancies so that they can be allowed to reach their natural conclusions.
This report underlines the urgent need for a Community initiative to effectively combat violence against women.
If there is to be equality in employment, there also needs to be equality in society and family life.
This resolution highlights the Commission's responsibility to legislate in this area.
No European text has reaffirmed this right since 2002, due to the reticence of one right-wing European party.
There is certainly much more to be done in terms of real access to information, contraception and abortion, but the Tarabella report must be used as a basic point of support for bringing European law forward in this sector.
in writing. - I voted today in favour of this report, which is progressive in nature as it aims to promote equality between men and women including in areas of parental leave, child care, domestic violence and the pay gap.
It also promotes a much wider awareness of sexual health matters for both women and men.
in writing. - (PT) I voted against the report on equality between men and women in the EU in 2009 as I believe that it was distorted by bringing in issues such as access to induced abortion and free access to advice on induced abortion.
These are very sensitive topics and, according to the subsidiarity principle, they are a matter for the individual Member States alone.
in writing. - I strongly support this report.
Equality between women and men has long been a fundamental principle of the European Union.
However, despite the progress made in this field, many inequalities between remain.
The gender pay gap - 17.4% - has barely narrowed since 2000.
To earn the same as a man would earn on average for a calendar year, a woman on average must work until the end of the following February, a total of 418 days.
The global economic, financial and social crisis is causing women to suffer a 'double blow'.
The report of Marc Tarabella clearly emphasises the greatest barrier to gender equality.
The global economic crisis has exacerbated the situation and it looks as if women will be 'sacrificed' as a result of cost-cutting fiscal policies through reductions in maternity benefits and expenditure on social services.
Mr Tarabella states correctly that the principle of 'the same pay for the same work', valid in the treaties since 1957, has not been complied with and women in some Member States are still not paid the same rate for the same work as men.
The drawing up of a directive on preventing and combating all forms of violence against women and the introduction of paternity leave into European legislation are some of the proposals that I believe to be essential to promoting gender equality and guaranteeing a more equal share of family responsibilities between men and women.
Nevertheless, the furtive and back-handed introduction of divisive issues under cover of these very topics is turning into a regrettable habit.
However, I voted against the resolution due to the introduction of sensitive issues, such as access to abortion, which are a matter for the Member States alone.
Despite certain weaknesses, the report succeeded in highlighting important points such as the need for paternity leave that is linked to maternity leave, the issue of sexual and reproductive rights and the need to step up the fight against inequality and discrimination in the workplace, against violence and trafficking in women and girls, and denouncing the poverty and precarious, poorly paid work to which many women are subjected.
However, as usual in this House, the initial intention was good, but it has led to a distorted analysis and wild proposals.
The report also emphasises that women must have access free of charge to consultation on abortion.
in writing. - Whilst gender equality is a fundamental right within the EU recognised in the Treaty on European Union, there remain unacceptable levels of inequality in a wide number of areas.
It is clear that huge problems remain and so it is imperative that the EU institutions work to positively identify and seek solutions to these issues wherever they exist in the Union.
In addition, the past is still alive in our minds - as highlighted in the 2006 report commissioned by the President of Romania - when the Communist party took draconian measures against abortion in order to ensure the control of the party over women's private lives.
I fully support the driving spirit behind the resolution which has the merit of being based on the assumption that the debate on demographic changes is connected with the debate on measures necessary to combat the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the labour market.
The assumption that women must be able to achieve easier abortions in order to recover their right to sexual freedom not only runs counter to general lay morals, but also contradicts the principles enshrined in recital Z, which states that the promotion of 'higher birth rates to meet future requirements' is central to the European action.
in writing. - (PT) Inequalities between men and women on various levels, whether by profession, sector or different stereotypes, have become blurred over the years.
Equality between men and women in the EU is increasingly a reality, and although there are still cases of discrimination, we are beginning to see very positive developments.
Although there have been many improvements in the area of equal opportunities for women, there is still much to be done.
Flagrant inequalities between men and women still exist today in the employment sector, particularly when it comes to differences in pay or even reconciling work and family life.
There are still efforts to be made in this area.
Moreover, with regard to the protection of sexual and reproductive rights, it is essential that women have access to contraception and abortion.
That is why I voted in favour of the measures relating to the protection of these rights.
Finally, I voted against the proposal to create a European charter of women's rights because, since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which includes women's rights, forms an integral part of the treaties.
This charter is legally binding and enables women to be protected in the same way as men.
Women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights.
For this reason, I voted for all the aspects relating to easy access to contraception and abortion covered in the Tarabella report and, ultimately, for the report as a whole.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the complexity of the report under examination today was already apparent during work in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, where a risible majority of three votes and a wholesale absence of MEPs allowed the text to be adopted.
I believe that there has been effective legislation on the protection of women since 1975.
It is for this reason that, even though I have no wish to vote against the report, which certainly has some positive aspects, I prefer to disassociate myself from other aspects to emphasise my disapproval of certain parts, particularly those concerning abortion over which we Catholics are naturally indisposed to compromise.
I am also in favour of making contraception and education on these matters more easily accessible because this is the best way to avoid unwanted pregnancies.
I do not think that discussing this issue in the report on equality between men and women in the European Union is the best solution.
I have voted in favour of the report on equality between men and women in the European Union because it is in line with my fundamental conviction that women have the unrestricted right to autonomy, in particular, with regard to their sexual and reproductive rights, together with easy access to contraception and abortion.
These rights are an essential part of the concept and self-image of a modern European society.
in writing. - (SV) At yesterday's vote, I voted against the report on equality between women and men.
Naturally, I support the Swedish position on the issue - namely that the decision on abortion is ultimately a decision for the woman concerned, not a matter for the legislators.
in writing. - (PT) The European Union is currently undergoing a period of massive economic, financial and social crisis which is having a severe impact on the professional and private lives of women.
Gender segregation by occupation, the pay gap, and difficulties in reconciling professional and personal lives are obstacles to women's full participation in the labour market.
We should welcome this report as it gives us the opportunity to redefine guidelines on eliminating disparities between men and women in the labour market.
The inclusion of provisions relating to 'sexual and reproductive rights' is, however, unfortunate in a report which appears within a context of economic crisis and which concerns itself mainly with the impact of this crisis on working conditions for women and the place of women in society.
For the aforementioned reasons, and since the proposed amendments to paragraph 38, which I supported and considered essential to the economy of the document, were not approved, I voted against the report on equality between men and women in the European Union.
I have voted against the report because my fundamental convictions do not allow me to accept the unrestricted right to abortion and to reproductive freedom.
For me, the right to life is a fundamental right which must be defended and respected in every case.
The other parts of the report are perfectly acceptable and demonstrate that Europe has made progress towards equality for women.
in writing. - The ECR Group are the strongest supporters of equality between men and women and especially the principle of equal pay and equal opportunity in the workplace.
The ECR have decided to vote in favour of the paragraphs which support equality in this way.
The ECR Group have nevertheless voted against this resolution for two specific reasons.
It is a pity, because respect for people who are different and the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women are a real social challenge.
The rapporteur, Mr Tarabella, has not taken account of the national context.
The attempt to introduce into Polish legislation the possibility of unrestricted access to abortion is something which is not natural, and it is obvious that this will provoke opposition.
Acting in accordance with my own conscience, and taking into account the legal regulations which are in force in Poland, I voted against the resolution.
in writing. - (PT) Overall, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the EU's strategic objectives for the 15th Conference of the Parties in the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).
I also endorsed the amendments to include northern bluefin tuna in Appendix II of the CITES, in accordance with the recent recommendations by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the UN, which supported the announcement of the inclusion of northern bluefin tuna in Appendix II of the CITES.
Following this, the General Assembly of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) set a considerable reduction in the fishing of bluefin tuna by 13 500 tonnes and the European Commission restated its concern at the reduction in tuna stocks and committed itself to carrying out more reliable scientific studies.
I see this conference as crucial to the survival and sustainability of many species.
in writing. - Regarding the resolution on the key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), I voted against the abolition of fishing of northern bluefin tuna.
The reason is that this will affect the livelihood of Maltese fishermen in a very negative way.
Human activities are adding to this rate of extinction and are endangering biodiversity.
CITES is a central tool in the international effort to combat the primary threats to biodiversity, to combat illegal trade, and to put in place a proper Regulation concerning the wildlife trade.
Fishermen have made considerable efforts in recent years, keeping to increasingly restrictive quotas, modernising their fleets and so on.
in writing. - (PT) The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) constitutes the main global agreement in existence on the conservation of wild species.
It is therefore crucial that the European Union participates constructively in the 15th Conference of the Parties next March.
I recognise the importance of preserving endangered species to the safeguarding of the planet's biodiversity and ecological balance, and I acknowledge that sustainable development presupposes the reasonable use of natural resources without impeding activities that are necessary for development.
in writing. - (PT) The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) has acted as an important tool for conserving endangered flora and fauna species, especially those that attract commercial interest and therefore have to be protected and enriched.
We do not believe that the proposal to include bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in Appendix I of the CITES is justified, in the light of the available data.
The recommendations pointed to a significant decrease in catches, which were restricted to between 8 000 and 15 000 tonnes, with a fixed limit of 13 500 tonnes.
In these circumstances, we believe that we should wait for the assessment and recommendation by experts, following the situation closely in 2010.
One of its aims is the conservation of bluefin tuna, an essential component in the balance of the biological diversity of the marine environment.
The ban on the international trade in bluefin tuna will enable us to conserve our stocks of bluefin tuna, which are threatened by overfishing.
Nevertheless, Europe will have to check the measures taken by third countries, because how will we explain to our fishermen in Europe that Japanese, Libyan or Tunisian trawlermen are quite legally plundering our stocks of bluefin tuna?
Thus, bluefin tuna should be listed in Appendix I to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), subject to a general derogation for domestic trade, so that small-scale coastal fisheries can continue, and stricter controls on illegal fisheries.
in writing. - I voted for listing the bluefin tuna in CITES Appendix I, as a majority of the FAO Ad Hoc Expert Advisory Panel considered that the available evidence supported the proposal to include it there.
Today, on 10 February 2010, the European Parliament has been called on to express its views on the EU strategic objectives for the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), to be held in Doha (Qatar) from 13 to 25 March 2010.
Although Parliament's role is merely consultative, I nonetheless thought it important to sign and vote on the amendment seeking to eliminate the inclusion of red coral in Appendix II to the Convention, which would have caused a significant reduction in red coral fishing and trade, as an endangered species.
The inclusion of Corallium spp in Appendix II indeed seems over-cautious and not properly corroborated by scientific data.
Moreover, the economic and social repercussions that its inclusion could have on Italy's economy and, in particular, on some regions of southern Italy, caused me great concern and led me to vote in favour of this amendment.
In fact, I thought it more expedient to allow our companies in that sector more time to restructure their production and thus, to remain competitive on the market.
The effort made by these fishermen cannot fall on their shoulders alone.
The UN principle of joint responsibility for environmental problems must therefore apply, and the fishermen's effort must be compensated by a contribution from the European Union.
The EU must be present at the 15th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) with clearly defined objectives for species in danger of extinction which need to be protected.
I have abstained in the vote on Resolution concerning EU strategic objectives for the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) because I believe that northern bluefin tuna should not be included in CITES Appendix 1.
The main consideration of this resolution on the CITES Convention focusing on species threatened with extinction is fundamental: to reach a European consensus on the ban on the international trade in bluefin tuna.
Faced with fishermen fiercely hostile to this ban, scientific and environmental experts are sounding the alarm.
At the current rate, and despite the drastic efforts made over recent years, bluefin tuna could purely and simply disappear within three years.
The measure for a ban on international trade should be enough to safeguard the species, given that 80% of the bluefin tuna fished in the Mediterranean is exported directly to Japan.
I voted 'yes', despite the fact that I believe that the original text from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety was a better one, especially in terms of making reference to the northern bluefin tuna.
It is important, however, that the Council and Commission get the message from Parliament that we support the inclusion of the northern bluefin tuna in CITES Appendix I.
The Commission and the Member States also have our backing in their attempts to transfer the polar bear from CITES Appendix II to Appendix I.
One very important stipulation with respect to the Commission and the Member States is that they put a stop to the moves by Tanzania and Zambia to transfer the African elephant from CITES Appendix I to Appendix II with a view to trade.
Such industrial and international fishing threatens traditional coastal fishing in the Mediterranean.
In order to avoid an ecological disaster, made twice as bad by an economic crisis in the fishing sector, it is urgent to introduce a policy for an international ban on the industrial fishing of bluefin tuna.
My demand is to reconcile two major issues: effective protection of bluefin tuna to enable its survival and future placing on the market, and support for European coastal fishermen whose livelihood is partly dependent on this trade.
It is, for this reason, that I support the listing of bluefin tuna in Appendix I of the CITES to prevent it from being exploited and to prevent bluefin tuna from becoming extinct, but under the following conditions: that there be ongoing scientific assessments to find out the exact state of the biomass of this species, that economic and social support be given to the European players in the fishing sector and, above all, that a derogation be introduced in respect of the domestic trade in bluefin tuna so as to help small-scale industries and thus to prevent small-scale coastal fishing, which is a traditional activity in the Mediterranean, from being killed off.
The Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, known by its acronym CITES, is an international agreement between states.
Within the EU, national legislation varies from one Member State to another.
In order to provide better protection for wild species, coordination between efforts being made by the Member States and the European institutions to ensure that EU legislation on the trade in wild species is respected should be stepped up.
The Union shall also stand up to the other parties to CITES.
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution.
I voted in favour of adopting the 2009 progress report on Croatia.
I think that it is a balanced report which describes the progress made by Croatia in meeting the criteria for joining the European Union.
After a period of deadlock lasting more than nine months, accession negotiations resumed in October 2009.
Croatia must continue the reform process and the adoption of European legislation in order to successfully conclude negotiations by the end of this year.
The report also notes a number of issues affecting the process of Croatia's integration into the European Union.
The European Parliament is encouraging the Croatian authorities to overcome these obstacles and step up their efforts to resolve all the border disputes with neighbouring countries.
The report adopted by the European Parliament plenary includes amendments which I have tabled.
My amendments also included one on supporting the development by Croatia of cross-border cooperation projects designed to establish social, economic and territorial cohesion and raise the standard of living of the people living in the border areas.
in writing. - (NL) Has this Parliament really not learnt from its past mistakes?
Despite this, the accession of these countries was still voted through, and we all know the consequences.
The accession of all the Western Balkan countries, as envisaged by this report, is something that I find unacceptable.
in writing. - (PT) The implementation of democracy is a long process, and one which requires a strong commitment by the government and civil society.
When this is combined with the breakdown of a country that, despite being federal, was fairly centralised and governed by a dictatorial regime that collapsed, leading to a horrific war which will not be easily forgotten by future generations, we can indeed be immensely glad, as I was, to vote in favour of this resolution that brings us good news of the progress made by Croatia.
For our part, Croatia can count on our complete support.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2009 progress report on Croatia, as I believe that Zagreb will succeed in surpassing the challenges put before it and conclude negotiations for the country's accession to the European Union in 2010.
For this, it is vital to press on with reforms in different areas of the Community acquis, as well as cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
in writing. - (PT) Croatia has made remarkable progress in many different areas that qualify it to be not only a reliable partner of the European Union, but also a strong candidate for membership.
While there remains much to be done, particularly in sectoral areas, it is clear that Croatia has done enough to deserve a place alongside the Member States, and I hope that it can join the EU sooner rather than later.
I am hoping that the possible entry of Croatia into the European Union will be seen in the Balkans as a sign of hope, and that the other countries in the region, particularly Serbia, will recognise the national and international advantages and benefits of opting for Europe.
in writing. - I would like to draw your attention to a seldom emphasised aspect of evaluating the progress of the countries in question: the situation of Roma.
Realising the importance of establishing the legal framework for anti-discrimination, by 2004, the EU managed to enforce some real improvements through hardening the accession conditions for new Member States.
Candidate countries must be involved in the European-level pursuit of Roma integration before now, since accession negotiations grant an unparalleled opportunity to trigger a substantial shift in the governmental attitudes towards granting equal access to Roma in employment, education, housing and health care, promoting political participation and empowering the Romani civil movement.
All European countries - present and future members of the European Union - must engage in a concerted effort in order to overcome the historical social exclusion of the continent's largest ethnic minority and sign up for a community action plan which provides the proper legal leverage to force the participants to comply with their own pledges.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Amendment 6 because I agree that the government of Croatia needs to make supplementary efforts to reduce prejudice and combat discrimination on any grounds, including sexual orientation (one of the non-discrimination grounds in Art. 21 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights).
My approach on the issue of sexual orientation discrimination, as well as regarding discrimination against any minority, is consistent with EU legislation and other international human rights law and with the views of many of my electorate in Romania, as well as with my beliefs.
It is not Croatia that I am opposing by voting against this progress report.
However, I do condemn the Euro-liberal diktat to which both the Member States of the EU and the candidate countries are subjected.
As for the political, economic and regional cooperation criteria, it has been showing a great capacity for compliance with the required and previously stipulated conditions.
Although we have a long way to go with this difficult drive towards enlargement, I welcome the progress made in the accession of Croatia, even as a way of pacifying the Balkan region.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and I support Croatia's rapid accession to the EU.
It is important that the resolution shows which measures should be taken to accelerate accession talks, so that the technical details can be completed in 2010.
The authorities in Croatia should devote more attention to providing society with better information about the benefits of EU membership.
The very fact of belonging to a united Europe is, certainly, not without significance.
I voted in favour of it, because Croatia should become a Member State in the near future.
Despite all symbolic pressure, Croatia retains full national competence in areas linked to non-discrimination.
That is why I called on the Croatian family associations which I met recently during a visit to their country to continue their excellent work for the benefit of the common good of their nation and a better future for all in Europe.
The capacity to assume obligations resulting from accession to the Union and alignment with the Community acquis should not result in the denial of the traditional national culture of future Member States.
I voted for the 2009 progress report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia because I believe that it is an important report which will have a positive influence on this country's accession process.
The report notes the progress made by this country in terms of adopting the legislation required for integration into the European Union.
Furthermore, efforts must be made to improve interethnic relations and dialogue with neighbouring countries, as well as to bring its legislation into line on environmental protection.
The report adopted today includes amendments tabled by me, which recommend consolidating the ability to manage the pre-accession funds supplied by the European Union and support the implementation of the reforms required as part of the accession process.
For us, it was more important to demonstrate broad agreement on support for the membership of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia than to emphasise once again our position that we do not feel that disagreements between this country and its neighbours should affect the country's opportunity to join the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a good example of a mosaic of interests and ethnicities, not always peaceful or in agreement, that characterises the Balkan region.
I believe that the government of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has made significant progress in 2009, as is also highlighted in the resolution on the 2009 activity report.
In voting in favour of this report, I particularly welcomed the following aspects: the visa waiver, participation in EU civil and military missions, the national authorities' accreditation for the IPA components on regional and rural development, as well as the progress made in the preparations for taking over the management of the funds supplied as part of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA).
I hope that the accession negotiations will get under way in the near future and that the European Council will confirm, as part of the summit in March, that it accepts the Commission's recommendation to initiate negotiations.
I also believe that the European Union must provide assistance as part of the negotiation process.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Amendment 18 because the adoption of sexual orientation anti-discrimination provisions is a requirement for EU accession and because increased legal protection against discrimination is a message that the government sends to the whole of society about the value of all members of society.
Sexual orientation is one of the non-discrimination grounds in Article 21 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
My approach on the issue of sexual orientation discrimination, as well as regarding the discrimination of any minority, is consistent with EU legislation and other international human rights law, with the views of many in my electorate in Romania, as well as with my beliefs.
It is not the FYROM that I am opposing by voting against this progress report.
The people of the FYROM do not deserve to be ostracised in any way.
in writing. - (PT) Since the last progress report, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has made significant progress.
The membership criteria imposed by the EU and matters relating to political, economic and regional cooperation now need to be accepted and fulfilled if the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to become a member of the EU in the near future.
In my opinion, we must support the accession aspirations of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, because the country undoubtedly belongs to the European, Western cultural background and, in recent months and years, has made progress in numerous areas.
Last year, Macedonia demarcated the border with Kosovo and improved relations with Greece.
In the resolution on Macedonia's progress in 2009 towards implementing the EU membership criteria, we drew attention to the fact that the country's government should be more sensitive to matters of ethnic minorities and strive for greater media transparency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the motion for a resolution on the progress report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Although accession negotiations with Turkey started on 3 October 2005, they have made very little progress up until now.
The European Parliament feels that Turkey is still not meeting the Copenhagen political criteria.
It would have been better to emphasise that the negotiations are not open-ended, which would clear the way for more realistic alternatives such as a preferential partnership.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to abstain from the final vote on the resolution on Turkey's progress report 2009.
Although the text criticises the ability of this country to shoulder the responsibilities of joining the European Union, my abstention expresses an even more prudent stance.
The current situation in Turkey with regard to democracy, the rule of law, and the protection of human rights and of minorities is still very far from European standards.
In view of this, I would suggest that even at this late stage, there could be a referendum in Turkey where the people are asked whether they acknowledge and want to adopt our principles and values, or whether they would now prefer negotiations to begin for a new and deeper special partnership with the EU.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2009 progress report on Turkey, as I think it is in the interests of both the EU and Turkey to continue with the membership progress.
Regardless of how relations between the EU and Turkey will look in the future, I hope that they will converge and follow the route of dialogue and effective cooperation, and that, for its own good, Turkey continues in the direction of freedom and democracy along Western lines.
in writing. - (PT) In addition to its economic, political and social importance, Turkey's EU membership is a challenge for both sides and has great symbolic significance as a potential bridge between East and West.
These are inalienable values of the project of European integration, and they represent an opportunity for the Turkish people and the peaceful enhancement of their ethnic and cultural diversity.
Nevertheless, the process of applying for EU membership drags on without making any real progress, highlighting the long journey from the formal request for membership in 1987, which led to the opening of negotiations in 2005.
It is not Turkey that I am opposing by voting against this progress report.
The people of Turkey do not deserve to be ostracised in any way.
None of this precludes acknowledgement of the efforts made by Turkey over recent years to meet certain criteria required by the EU, and it recognises that invaluable role that this country plays within NATO.
I have abstained in the vote on Resolution concerning Turkey's progress report 2009 because I believe that Turkey is playing a very negative role in negotiations between the President of the Republic of Cyprus and the representative of the Turkish-Cypriot community.
Turkey is not complying with United Nations resolutions and it is violating international law: it is keeping 40 000 soldiers in the northern part of Cyprus, the city of Famagusta continues to be sealed off and occupied by troops, and Turkey is still sending settlers to the north of the island.
In my view, the European Union should monitor negotiations and send an unequivocal message to Turkey: if it maintains its current position, it will never be able to join the EU, since it continues to occupy the territory of Cyprus, a Member State of the European Union.
Therefore, the full withdrawal of Turkish troops from the Republic of Cyprus and the return of the city of Famagusta are sine qua non conditions of Turkey's accession to the European Union.
Turkey has done a great deal in its efforts to comply with the Copenhagen criteria.
Some opponents of Turkish integration are guided by reasons unconnected with the substance of the matter, and others by fears that Turkey is a big country which will have a big influence on EU decisions, because, in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon, the voting power of each Member State is dependent on the size of its population.
Finally, let us remember that Turkey could become a bridge for inter-religious dialogue as well as cultural and even macro-regional dialogue.
In contrast to the Commission and the Council, the European Parliament has been able to describe the many problems in Turkey and those relating to Turkey very clearly.
The ban on the pro-Kurdish Democratic Society Party (DTP) is an attack on the infant democracy in the country and, in particular, on the Kurdish minority, which represents as much as 20% of the population.
The Turkish Government is attempting to nip criticism in the bud by taking reprisals against hostile journalists and media organisations.
The essential prerequisites for continuing negotiations with Turkey are the full implementation of the Ankara Protocol and the recognition of the EU Member State of Cyprus.
in writing. - (PT) Turkey's EU-membership application has become a long, drawn-out process, the outcome of which still remains to be seen.
Turkey has committed itself to introducing reforms, maintaining good relations with its neighbours and progressively aligning itself with the Community acquis.
However, these efforts need to be stepped up in order to fully meet the criteria set at the Copenhagen Summit and in order to implement the judicial and electoral system and legislation.
