In turn, more than 200 million workers in developing and emerging countries are at risk of being pushed into extreme poverty.
This unprecedented meeting will take place in Washington DC on 20 and 21 April.
The Commission is working closely with the ILO on the preparations for the meeting which will offer us, in particular, an opportunity to promote decent work worldwide on behalf of the European Union.
Moreover, the G20 mandate includes the development by the ILO and other international organisations of a medium-term global training strategy.
The G20 Labour Ministers' meeting will be an opportunity for us to develop new measures which will shape the post-crisis policy framework.
The aim is to give the necessary input and orientation to the G20 leaders' summits in Canada and in Korea later this year.
Therefore, today, as we prepare for this G20, the only motto and the only objective that we can share is that of combating unemployment.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am very glad that we are able to have an opportunity to have this debate this afternoon, in preparation for the summit that will bring you all together in Washington on 20 and 21 April.
I shall speak in her language, French, using the papers she had prepared, because I am sure you will be very interested in hearing her own words: (FR) That is why, Commissioner, at a time when the unemployment rate in Europe is going to exceed the 10% mark, when there are more than one and a half billion poor workers in the world and when the crisis is hitting a further 200 million poor workers, it is time for the leaders to focus on the social consequences of the crisis and to give priority to employment.
The meeting sought by the Heads of State or Government gathered together in Pittsburgh has the virtue of finally reconciling macro-economic issues with the social dimension.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, it is absolutely crucial that the G20 employment and labour ministers put quality jobs at the heart of their economic recovery plans.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development believe that unemployment has not yet reached its peak in industrialised countries, and that soon, more than 200 million workers could be thrown into extreme poverty.
We must make sure that those who are not protected at the moment are protected in the future. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the G20 summit in Pittsburgh provided a good model.
I think that we ultimately need to understand that we cannot talk of economic policy without keeping the employment parameter constantly in mind.
I propose that we examine and trial a vocational and training-related social security system for the jobs of the future, at the same time as developing public research, which is crucial to a new lasting and sustainable economy. (RO) The G20 leaders established in Pittsburgh in September 2009 that the main priority in the economic recovery plans must be to preserve existing jobs and create new ones.
At the 2009 G20 leaders' summit in Pittsburgh, the countries' leaders agreed that the emphasis in national economic recovery plans should be on the retention and creation of jobs.
I think that the main emphasis of the G20 summit should be agreement on concrete measures to stabilise the unemployment level, since the disillusionment and fear of the people will not contribute to the speedy economic recovery of our countries. (LT) First of all, I really welcome the fact that for the first time at the G20, ministers of the world's most powerful countries, labour and employment ministers, will meet to discuss the most important problems, in other words, how to overcome unemployment and increase employment.
In fact, this meeting will take place in a very difficult environment, as in the European Union alone, around 5.5 million young people are out of work.
My country has never experienced this before in the 20 years since it became independent.
