Cooperation with countries that are the source of migration is one of the most important elements of the new immigration policy - before 2004, there was practically no immigration policy in the European Union - and one of the prime elements of the policy that arose following the Hampton Court meeting in 2004 is cooperation with countries of origin and transit for illegal migration.
I can tell you that the last round of negotiations on this readmission agreement took place only last month, on 19 February in Ankara, and the Council is going to continue to support the Commission in its efforts to secure the most favourable conclusion possible to these negotiations.
Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 facilitates this operational cooperation between Member States and third countries, and it should also be said that negotiations are taking place on an agreement such as that mentioned in this Regulation between Frontex and Turkey.
I must remind you that before the end of last year, there was a visit by Minister Billström, on behalf of the Swedish Presidency, and Mr Barrot, Vice-President of the Commission, to Turkey, on 5 November 2009.
When there is an agreement with a third country through which illegal immigration may pass, and there is a readmission agreement - which is the objective - and therefore the European Union's agreements with that third country are strengthened - which is the global approach and the philosophy of the European Pact on Immigration - what is happening is that the borders of the Member States of the Union are being strengthened.
If we do not have this effective control of illegal immigration because there is insufficient cooperation with other countries, because there are no readmission agreements, those borders are weakened in practice.
More specifically, it has initiated the creation of an observatory on gender violence by the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council (EPSCO), which adopted conclusions on this on 8 March, International Women's Day, which was on Monday.
You spoke of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in November 2009.
This is therefore about protecting the victims of that crime.
Its legal basis is in cooperation on criminal matters, and we understand that it is therefore perfectly possible - as the legal services of the Council have said - for it to be implemented through this legal text, which will have to be examined and debated in this House.
On Monday, the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council (EPSCO) adopted this comprehensive, global approach in the fight against gender violence; in other words, 'zero tolerance'.
The Council and Parliament did invite the Commission to consider the possibility of an initiative for a European year for combating violence against children, young people and women.
This is raised in the Daphne III Programme.
The three countries are therefore committed to helping to develop this European Union Strategy for the Danube region and, in this respect, in June last year, the Council urged the Commission to present it before the end of this year.
I think both of these are particularly important when it comes to cross-border cooperation.
I do want to say that these countries consider that the European Union needs to play a leadership role in this strategy, especially the Commission, by facilitating cooperation in the Danube region.
The statement that I referred to previously, made on 25 February, says how the strategy for the Danube region should be used to increase prosperity, security and peace for the people who live in the region, through trans-regional and trans-national cooperation, as well as coordination at that level.
The mobilisation of the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has not had the desired effect, since 80 million of our fellow citizens are living below the poverty threshold.
Subject: European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion EUR 17 million has been provided for 2010 - European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
This is a very important part of the EU 2020 strategy that I mentioned before, and it was included in the conclusions of the meeting of the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council that has been mentioned so many times here and took place this week.
Let us recall that Europe has 80 million people at risk of entering a situation of poverty; reducing this figure by 20 million and, at the same time, increasing the active population are medium-term objectives that are part of the strategy and which will therefore shape a whole series of coordinated European strategies.
I understand that you are here representing the executive, not the Spanish judiciary, and that you are not a spokesperson for the Autonomous Community of Valencia, but we need an answer.
I do not wish to evade giving an answer, nor do I simply want to say that I will not answer, but you are well aware that if you ask a question in Parliament, it is possible that I will not wish to use my position as President-in-Office of the Council for a question that is internal to a Member State of the Union.
Question 6 has been withdrawn.
In a joint declaration following the meeting of the EU-Russia Permanent Partnership Council on justice and home affairs on 2 December last year, the participants decided to debate possible changes to the European Union's agreement with Russia on granting visas in order to make travel for European and Russian citizens more accessible, specifically for the residents of the region of Kaliningrad.
In turn, according to the same joint declaration, the European Union and Russia hoped to negotiate and conclude local border traffic agreements between Russia and the neighbouring Member States of the European Union that might be interested in doing so.
The Council, in any case, notes that negotiations are also under way between Lithuania and Russia and between Poland and Russia.
With regard to Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, each of these countries has a particular situation as far as visa policy is concerned, and we cannot currently predict how much progress is going to be made in those three countries in comparison with the dialogue on visas that we are conducting with Russia. (DE) I would like to bring up the two most critical points one more time.
In the European Union - especially since many European Union countries suffered very directly from the gas crisis between Russia and the Ukraine at the beginning of 2009 - we place an extremely high value on energy security, and we definitely consider it to be one of the European Union's major objectives, an objective that is naturally linked to the major objective of combating climate change.
From our point of view, this is rather important. (PL) I would like to go back to Questions Nos 7 and 8, and to relations between the European Union and Russia.
With regard to the intervention on the subject of nuclear security, I must say that the responsibility, which in this area is national, is provided for in the international agreements of the International Atomic Energy Agency, in other words, in the Convention on Nuclear Safety to which Belarus, Russia, Euratom and the majority of the Member States of the European Union are parties.
I think that it is in the context of these general negotiations on visas that someone could suggest another type of specific channel for facilitating visas, but as I said, at the moment, we are in very broad negotiations on visas with Russia, and I think that this is what we need to focus on: on the organisation of visas in general terms.
