Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am grateful for this opportunity to give you an update of the Commission's work on reviewing the Package Travel Directive.
For this reason, the Commission launched the impact assessment process to prepare for a possible revision of the Package Travel Directive last year.
In the context of the impact assessment work, the Commission published a study on consumer detriment in the area of the so-called 'dynamic packages' in November 2009.
The Commission is now examining more than 170 contributions, which will feed into the impact assessment.
Second, we must improve the functioning of the internal market for travel, in particular, since cross-border purchases are so frequent in this area.
The Commission is planning to present its proposal early in 2011.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would firstly like to thank Commissioner Dalli for his promises and explanations that in 2011, he plans to undertake a revision of the Package Travel Directive dating from 1990.
Thirdly, we must also ask ourselves whether the rights of air passengers and the rights that are in force pursuant to the existing Package Travel Directive should, in the long term, be transferred into a common document, to eliminate contradictions between components of both legislations.
In some countries, travel agents are liable just like package tour operators; in other countries, like mine for example, travel agents are only intermediaries.
Mr President, Commissioner Dalli, I would firstly like to give you a warm welcome on behalf of the ALDE Group.
Six months ago, we in the Transport Committee put a question to the Transport Commissioner because in the context of SkyEurope in Slovakia, we had the case of passengers with low-cost flights being stranded and not being transported further.
As we have already heard, more and more consumers are putting together dynamic travel packages or booking separate travel services.
In a Parliament resolution, this House made a very clear call for the passengers affected to be better protected.
Perhaps we should also consider introducing sanctions in the new directive.
I hope the Commission will get to grips with this very soon and present us with a new proposal to discuss in this House.
The problem is that in the last 20 years, there has been a complete change, both in the business model and in the pattern of consumer behaviour.
it is important because the 20-year-old directive fails in every area to take into account the rights of people living with disabilities when they are travelling, even when they are travelling in groups.
When this becomes a reality, we will truly be able to say that in the European Union, everyone can travel freely. (RO) The Package Travel Directive encompasses transport and accommodation services, along with other related services provided through package holidays.
The rise in the level of Internet use and the emergence of low-cost operators have made 23% of European tourists and 20% of European households buy customised package holidays via specialist websites.
Consumers must be fully informed about their rights and about how these rights are guaranteed by each of the offerings available, both for the complete package holiday and each component individually.
Tourists prefer dynamic packages because they offer greater flexibility, lower prices compared to traditional package holidays and a higher quality of service, or because they cannot find traditional package holidays to meet their requirements.
Mr President, I want to thank the Commissioner very much, both on behalf of our group, but also as the chairman of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, for making a very timely appearance before us this evening, and also for having responded so quickly to the oral question from my committee on 3 December which set out a number of areas which he has answered very comprehensively.
Twenty years ago, most people chose trips from a travel brochure and then went to a local travel agency to book them.
I believe that this is a clear example of how I think Commissioner John Dalli will be working in the coming years; we have here clear proof of how the consumer will be given all the rights he merits. (CS) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Package Travel Directive must respond to a series of new challenges in the area of tourism, especially in connection with the development of new technologies which have influenced ways of communicating and selling services.
It does not cover scheduled airlines, and more and more people are now arranging their own package holidays by virtue of the fact that they have easy access to the Internet.
We need clarification, we need certainty, and we need protection for the consumer. (PL) I support revision of the Package Travel Directive.
Anyone who has already experienced this problem knows that this is a major problem which you can normally only consider tackling with very good legal cover.
In other words, they have the facility, via the Internet, not to buy ready packages, as we have learned to do in the past, and to pick and choose how they wish to plan their holidays.
This directive is twenty years old.
Consumers have both an obligation and a right to know if the prices which they have to choose between are legal or if there is unfair competition.
We need to do more so thank you, Commissioner. (LT) Over the last two decades, the travel market has developed in a very dynamic manner.
Moreover, I can inform you that the Commission will host a stakeholders' workshop on 22 April 2010.
