The countries in the north are the best, with a rate of 16 kg per head of population.
We must finally introduce uniform criteria in this directive, because these have been lacking until now.
The situation in the European Union must change, because we are living in an internal market.
This is why it is right that this piece of Swiss cheese which is full of holes is finally being transformed into something consisting of more cheese and fewer holes.
This is why we want a more dedicated collection system.
In other words, Parliament wants clear and very specific targets.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (BG) Madam President, Europe pays more than EUR 130 billion every year to import strategic metals to support its industry.
The compromise text, which will be presented to you today to vote on, marks an important step forward in the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment in Europe.
Just to give an example, in 2006, according to Eurostat data, European Union countries dumped almost 307 million tonnes of recyclable waste and equipment.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying in this endeavour to address the problem of the spiralling increase in waste electrical and electronic equipment, which is forecast to reach 12.3 million tonnes by 2020.
Secondly, we have increased collection targets for this waste to 85% by 2016.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I would also like to express my thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur for the work that has been done on this.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, the amount of waste equipment is increasing dramatically.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under examination contains some critical issues that can only be resolved if they are discussed again at second reading.
It is a problem which exists at many levels, because on the one hand it concerns protecting the environment and human health, and on the other it is about the effective management of resources and natural materials.
Revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment should give consideration to goals which are not only ambitious, but which are also more realistic from the point of view of the new Member States.
In the new Member States, electronic equipment such as computers, televisions and refrigerators is changed much less frequently, and these appliances are used for much longer than in other countries.
The amendments tabled by the rapporteur represent a move towards solving the problem of disproportionate methodology and the unfavourable treatment of the European Union's new Member States.
There are about four or five in my city and they are only open at certain times.
Our citizens must become actors and not spectators in European environmental policy. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with much of what I have heard.
I think this is an important, fundamental directive, and so we will of course vote for it.
As we have heard and as we have already appraised - although I think we need to go into this area as well in greater depth - there are different systems and different circumstances in the Member States, which need to be carefully assessed so that no countries automatically benefit while others automatically lose out.
The directive is a good start, but I hope that in future we can transfer more responsibility from distributors to producers. (ES) Madam President, our goals must be ambitious, but it must also be acknowledged that the rapporteur's proposal is not easy to apply with the situation that exists in each Member State.
I believe that the legislation is particularly important for the countries which acceded most recently as they still lag behind in the area of separate waste collection. (SV) Madam President, we really do live in a wasteful society if we regard this as waste.
Much of this scrap contains higher levels of gold and silver than is contained in the ore in a gold or silver mine.
Finally, it is important that the Member States and the Commission now ensure that the export rules are tightened up and that they are complied with.
We must put a stop to the export of waste to poor countries. (LV) Madam President, I am one of those people who largely support the adoption of this document.
Of course, in Latvia we should like a somewhat smaller chance to make the targets: 45% by 2016 and 65% by 2020. - (SK) Madam President, the amendment of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment has gone through an extensive consultation process in the relevant European Parliament committees.
The version of Article 47 proposed by the Committee on the Environment is, in my opinion, a particularly beneficial amendment, because it enables the financial obligations of industry to be directed towards developing an electrical waste collection system, rather than implementing penalties for failing to achieve set objectives for collection.
I would also like to support the new Article 93, which responds to the fact that many liable persons, particularly internet retailers, are avoiding fulfilling their obligations.
The new regulation attempts to deal with this problem in a sensitive and proper manner.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, many honourable Members of this Parliament mentioned implementation, which is truly a problem.
Unfortunately, it is not a problem in this area only, but a problem across the whole environmental spectrum.
However, I want to be clear that the real cost to our society and our economy would come if we were not to deal with these questions.
Some countries are very obstinate and, against the background of the unanimity in this House, I would like to ask the Members who have spoken so passionately today in favour of this report to go home and exert some influence on their governments and to explain that things will not be the same as they have been in the past.
It is also important to point out that there is a clear desire for national regulations when it comes to waste policy.
However, that is counterproductive, because the internal market was born a long time ago and we now need to bring it up properly.
in writing. - CS) The collection of electrical and electronic waste is a very topical issue at present.
In my opinion, some of the amendments that will be voted on in the introductory block represent a very poor way of combining Commission proposals with the other proposals for facilitating the collection, sorting and recycling of the waste.
It is important for the overall effort to result in a directive that will clearly set out the obligations of the various bodies, while at the same time enabling the recycling process to be as effective as possible.
in writing. - (CS) Waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing source of waste.
Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU.
The revision of the directive has helped set new targets for collecting, recycling and re-using WEEE (recycling target of 50-75% - depending on the categories, which now number six instead of the initial 10 - and a new re-use target of 5%).
in writing. - (HU) The current recast of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment is not only immensely important from the aspect of environmental protection and public health, but also from the point of view of resource efficiency, so frequently mentioned nowadays.
