European Strategy for the Danube Region (debate) Τhe next item is the oral question to the Commission (B7-0240/2009) by Silvia-Adriana Ţicău, Brian Simpson, János Áder, Hannes Swoboda, Eva Lichtenberger, Michael Cramer, Saïd El Khadraoui, Mathieu Grosch, Iuliu Winkler, Victor Boştinaru, Ioan Mircea Paşcu, Marian-Jean Marinescu, Ivailo Kalfin, Norica Nicolai, Dirk Sterckx, Csaba Sándor Tabajdi, Michael Theurer, Ismail Ertug, Inés Ayala Sender, Jiří Havel, Edit Herczog, Stanimir Ilchev, Iliana Malinova Iotova, Jelko Kacin, Evgeni Kirilov, Ádám Kósa, Ioan Enciu, Eduard Kukan, Gesine Meissner, Alajos Mészáros, Nadezhda Neynsky, Katarína Neveďalová, Daciana Octavia Sârbu, Vilja Savisaar, Olga Sehnalová, Catherine Stihler, Peter van Dalen, Louis Grech, Corina Creţu, George Sabin Cutaş, Vasilica Viorica Dăncilă, Cătălin Sorin Ivan, Tanja Fajon, Kinga Göncz, Antonyia Parvanova, Adina-Ioana Vălean and Rovana Plumb, on the European Strategy for the Danube Region.
The development of the transport infrastructure is vital to the Danube Region's development.
The implementation of joint projects on energy efficiency and renewable energy resources, investments in new technologies and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises will help stimulate the green economy in the entire Danube macro-region.
In addition, tourism is an important instrument for promoting economic growth in the region.
The Danube Region and, in particular, the Danube Delta, include several Special Protection Areas and Special Areas for Conservation within the framework of Natura 2000, which is a unique and fragile ecosystem.
With this purpose in mind, we call on the Commission and Member States to use the mid-term review of the financial outlook in 2010 and the debates on the future financial outlook to implement the objectives of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region.
I wish to end by saying that the European Parliament will be a permanent partner in the process of developing and implementing the EU Strategy for the Danube Region.
Concerning the state of play at this stage, we have established inside the Commission an inter-service working group of more than 20 directorates-general to indicate the main policy priorities for this strategy.
The first such event will be held in Ulm in Germany on 1 and 2 February.
I am pleased that Commissioner Rehn has been reappointed, and we want this strategy to be approved, along with a specific action plan, by early 2011 at the latest.
This is why I hope that the new European Commission will consider this matter and not avoid funding based on public-private partnerships.
Romania has the largest section of the River Danube among all the riparian states.
Madam President, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament supports the initiative for the development of a strategy for the Danube Region.
In addition to territorial cohesion, it is also important to make it clear that this strategy involves cross-border cooperation, something that we are always encouraging and have always supported in the area of cohesion policy, and in fact already wanted to increase during this funding period.
I hope that this will have even greater success in the next few years, including in connection with the Danube Strategy.
I would like to point out that, with this Danube Strategy, we will attain European added value, which will be really tangible, particularly for the people living in this region.
Without always having to immediately invent a new strategy, we can use this as an example for resolving problems together in cross-border European cooperation and - if we succeed in actually incorporating third countries into such a strategy - also for putting in place a Neighbourhood Policy, which is something that is important for all of us in the European Union and which should be promoted.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the Danube Region is evident by the very fact that 80 million people in six EU Member States and in four neighbouring countries live along the Danube.
In the Black Forest - 100 km away as the crow flies - the Danube begins and then flows down to the delta and into the Black Sea.
As we all know, the Danube is, after the Volga, Europe's second longest river, flowing through or forming the international frontiers of ten countries; its basin covers as many as 19 European states.
A well-functioning, macro-regional strategy must be defined from below, while the European institutions should create only a framework, facilitate communication at the intergovernmental level, and support the individual actors in terms of methodology, data overviews, etc.
In my opinion, the Commission should not elaborate a macro-regional strategy, but rather supervise its birth, since the actual content should be defined at the level of the Member States, the regions, and individual towns and villages.
The Danube's development potential cannot be fully harnessed while there are still unconnected international, interregional and local transport networks, while more profound cooperation in territorial planning and strategic development planning is still lacking, and while mental barriers persist.
Their goal is to secure cooperation between the Member States, their regional and local self-government authorities and other relevant bodies, based on the principle of partnership, and make it possible for them to solve their problems.
Since then, my colleagues have no longer been surprised by this statement, and I am very glad that as one of the initiators, I am in a position to support work starting on a development strategy for the Danube river basin.
Naturally, this strategy should cover a number of aspects, and in particular, those aspects related to the environment and its protection, to sustainable economic development, and the development of transport infrastructure and logically call for the involvement of all the countries that use the water resources in this region.
It really does not matter whether the countries are members of the European Union or our neighbours.
For its part, the GUE/NGL Group gives its full support to the intentions outlined in the resolution and, naturally, it will be backing them during the vote.
In accordance with the conclusions of the European Council from June 2009, the European Commission began work on the preparation of a European Union Strategy for the Danube Region with the aim of improving cooperation between countries in the Danube river basin and helping to increase the dynamics of economic and social development in this region.
This development would very much fit into the concept of Motorways of the Sea, which is also included in the EU White Paper on European transport policy.
However, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that unlike others, the Jobbik movement for Hungary would like to support this not for the sake of seeking profits.
This means that my brother's farm in that area is at risk.
This I know because we have also used this approach together, step by step, on the other side of Europe.
I agree with them on the immense, immediate and urgent need to restore the Danube as a waterway for sustainable transport - there is the Marco Polo Programme, which is still so badly utilised - or as a vector of unique touristic development - because, of course, the landscapes are amazing - or as a source of renewable energy.
Those of us who are not lucky enough to have such European and transnational rivers because we live on a peninsula, in a corner of the European Union - although we do have rivers between Portugal and Spain and their shared and transnational management is an example on a European scale - yes it is true that we view the capacity of the Danube with envy.
I specifically wish to emphasise the key role which the regions and cities along the Danube should play in drawing up this strategy.
The situation in the poorer regions, with the disparities in terms of opportunities and resources, also raises the particularly important issue of investment.
Its priorities should come from the Danube municipalities, districts and cities and it is very important that regional authorities and civil society recognise the strategy as their tool for better cooperation and coordination.
If we are talking about the Danube, the only form of intervention, the only form of investment and the only form of development that are acceptable, and this is my point of view, are ones that would not jeopardise our supply of drinking water.
This initiative encompasses 14 countries with a population in excess of 200 million.
Please allow me to draw your attention to three issues of significance to my country, Bulgaria, which, in our view, must be resolved, along with the need to restore...
The Bulgarian part of the river, if we exclude the cities of Ruse, which has the only bridge connecting the two banks of the Danube, Vidin and Silistra, is perhaps the area where the municipalities are the most underdeveloped economically.
These municipalities, numbering 39 in total, are on the periphery, and the River Danube still represents for them an insurmountable barrier rather than an opportunity.
Thank you. (CS) The European Strategy for the Danube Region is important for the development of the entire Danube river basin region.
It is vital to stipulate clear-cut priorities, while the projects should have a sustainable character, be environmentally friendly, and enjoy evident support from local and regional self-government authorities and the public.
Not isolated projects, but rather cooperation within the region with a supra-regional perspective can ensure the sustainable development of the Danube Region in the future.
At the same time, the European Strategy for the Danube Region may prove to be a comprehensible and stabilising development framework for the Member States as well as for the countries that are outside the European Union, but which are striving to cooperate, either as candidate countries or on the basis of Neighbourhood Policy. (DE) Madam President, the strategy for the Danube Region is one of the most important current European regional policy projects, because the Danube has always been a lifeline between the various countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which historically provided a basis for economic cooperation, but also cultural exchange.
I expect a rise in the quality of life and numerous good and inspiring ideas. (SK) As a Slovak Member of this Parliament, I would like to welcome the initiative to draw up, adopt and put in place a European Strategy for the Danube Region.
I am also convinced that this project will contribute to the development of transport and environmental protection and, in many areas, become a suitable platform for closer cooperation between the regions involved.
At the same time, I would like to bring to your attention the fact that greater emphasis in the preparation of this strategy should be placed on environmental protection, in particular, the protection of drinking water.
I hope that this project will help improve cooperation between the Union and these countries in the region.
I am positive that regional strategies can be more effective and should be promoted because Member States are then acting in the common interest.
I wish my colleagues the determination to achieve their goals and I believe that their voice will be heard by the new Commission, especially because sustainable regional development is among the top priorities on the Commission's agenda. (SK) The Danube Region has traditionally been a macro-region with great economic, social and cultural potential whose integration and sustainable economic growth need to be systematically and effectively extended.
The first one is ensuring that the labour market is not only open, but also regulated in an appropriate and cooperative manner.
The second particularly important concern in this connection is that this is an opportunity for innovation and cooperative research.
We should not be creating pious wishes and dreaming, and should incorporate only feasible targets into the strategy; after all, we have known since 1830 that we need a supra-national policy.
The Danube is a nature reserve and must be protected to preserve its biodiversity, but it is also a protected area for leisure and tourism.
The goal must be to make the available resources more efficient in terms of territorial cooperation and to use them more effectively. (RO) I believe that drawing up a well thought-out strategy and providing the necessary financial resources could significantly improve the quality of life of those living in the Danube basin.
At the moment, there are financial instruments available for infrastructure and economic development projects or for environmental protection, but these resources can only be used by Member States and the states neighbouring them.
Particular attention must be focused on this aspect and, in the future, we must not exclude the possibility of finding other sources of funding, apart from EU funds.
The question is whether the Commission is also considering cooperation with groups of experts at regional level in order to draw up the strategy.
The question still is whether this strategy's objectives should feature as part of implementing cohesion, using the Danube's economic and transport potential, and protecting the river, its ecosystem and water quality.
I would also like to mention that the Danube is Priority Project 18 as part of TEN-T (Trans-European Network of Transport), and the Commission has just now initiated an extensive process for reviewing the trans-European transport network policy, with a communication on the subject due to be ready, according to the schedule, in May 2010.
The fact that its national coordinator is the Deputy Prime Minister underlines the importance that Slovakia ascribes to the Danube Strategy.
In my opinion, in addition to these pillars, we need to put emphasis on cooperation between both Member and non-Member States of the European Union in the Danube river basin.
In order to find a comprehensive solution for the development of the Danube area, the priorities of countries need to be dealt with on the basis of equality and in mutual contexts.
The Danube Strategy marks a new step in the same direction.
I welcome the fact that the European Strategy for the Danube Region must take into consideration the analysis and suitability of the objectives, such as the development of energy infrastructures, specifically, new transport networks and new production capacity for electrical energy, the promotion of energy production from renewable sources, new hydroelectric plants, wind power plants, biofuels and the continuation of programmes for developing nuclear power stations, like the one in Cernavodă.
The number one priority must be to protect the environment in the Danube basin.
Managing and preserving our water is therefore extremely important for the whole European Union, and particularly the Danube Region.
And today's debate has demonstrated that the Danube can create peace between states that have disagreements and tension, as our great poet Attila József once said. (RO) Right from the moment when I put myself forward as a candidate for the European Parliament, I felt that the Danube offered major potential for the EU which had not been utilised to its maximum capacity.
The Rhine-Main-Danube transport waterway, which links the North Sea, via the port of Rotterdam, and the Black Sea, via the port of Constanţa, can become the backbone of Europe.
The Ulm conference, which I will be attending on 1-2 February, marks a first step in the consultation process.
Romania has offered to organise a series of conferences on this subject, including the ministerial conference in June 2010. (BG) Madam President, Commissioner, there have been numerous initiatives over the years on the development of cooperation along Europe's largest river in the areas of transport, ecology, culture, education and trade, to name but a few.
However, all these numerous projects pose a problem at the moment.
What we are asking to see through the synergy which will be provided by the European Commission is for this not to become one in a series of instruments for cooperation along the Danube, but actually to be the instrument which generates a common synergy, facilitates coordination and combines the opportunities from the various initiatives existing in this region.
This, combined with the involvement of the widest group of stakeholders, including the European Parliament and citizens, is the only way a synergy can be created which is beneficial to every citizen from the 14 countries bordering the Danube.
This idea is a very good example of territorial cohesion policy, which is based on the sustainable character of the natural environment, the economy and society.
It brings together both Member and non-Member States of the European Union and regional cooperation in the Danube Region provides a very good basis and conditions for cooperation so that these non-Member States integrate into the Union.
It is very important for this region to have a strategy, not only because of the need to create a transport corridor and connection between the North Sea and the Black Sea, but also because this region is the greatest reservoir of fresh drinking water in Europe.
It is necessary to protect the Danube Region from floods and ensure its sustainable development for future generations.
It connects several capitals, including the two closest capital cities in the world, Bratislava and Vienna, as well as Bratislava and Budapest, and this is a really important and symbolic fact for us, the people of Central Europe.
I would like to thank Silvia-Adriana Ţicău for the fact that, thanks to her enthusiasm, this debate could take place in the European Parliament. (HU) The Danube shapes life and history in Central and South-Eastern Europe.
In 1823, Andrews and Prichard were granted exclusive rights for arterial navigation within the Austrian territories.
This is also reflected in the priorities for our 2011 Presidency.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all Members who have participated in this debate at this rather late hour.
I must also say that I am impressed by the depth of knowledge and experience of the Danube Region that has been shown in this debate.
This is my response to my friend and ex-colleague, Danuta Hübner, and many others of you who have raised this concern of cooperation between the Commission and Parliament.
It is indeed our joint challenge to improve environmentally sustainable communication systems, roads and bridges, and to protect the environment and preserve water reserves in the Danube Region.
It is to save and upgrade die schöne blaue Donau and its wider region.
So, in conclusion, I would like to thank you for your support for the Danube Strategy.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 21 January 2010.
Let us not forget that, back in 1856, when this area was previously under world attention, one of the results has been a regulatory status of the River Danube at the European level.
Now that the main blockage of the river - the situation in Serbia - is going to be removed, let us not miss this opportunity and give our full and serious consideration to this river, thus making it the truly European waterway we all will benefit from.
Throughout history, the Danube has played a central role in Europe.
These are, of course, in the area of the economy, but also in the areas of culture, environmental policy, energy security and Neighbourhood Policy.
in writing. - (EL) The adoption of a strategy for the Danube Region will be the jewel in the crown of cooperation developed between Member States, local authorities, NGOs, civil society organisations and other stakeholders in the area at national or regional level.
The vital component of this cooperation is that it is following an unhurried course, crossing national, regional, local or even administrative borders, because it is the answer to real needs in the daily lives of the people in the area, an answer formulated through initiative and participation of various levels of governance and not something which is being imposed, proving that multiple-level governance can provide these solutions at local level.
In my view, however, when discussing the strategy, we should think of more than just the sum of economic, environmental, transportation and tourism elements, and I would therefore highlight the political significance of the strategy, the fact that the process of planning and cooperation involves all the countries along the Danube, including non-Member States as well, such as Serbia and Ukraine.
