Preparation for the European Council meeting (24-25 March 2011) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation for the European Council meeting to be held on 24 and 25 March 2011.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, President Barroso, Commissioner, honourable Members, I very much welcome the opportunity to appear before you in advance of the next meeting of the European Council.
The European Council will, I hope, adopt this package in order to respond to the economic and financial crisis.
On the basis of the Commission's assessment, the Council will subsequently provide its assessment and guidance to the Member States in June: that is, at a time when important budgetary decisions are still in a preparatory phase in most Member States.
The second element is the strengthening of economic governance, and here the European Parliament has a decisive role.
We know that the deadline imposed by the European Council does not, by any means, bind the European Parliament, yet I take this solemn opportunity to ask for Parliament's cooperation so that we can reach political agreement by June.
The fourth is the pact for the euro, its extension to Member States outside the euro area who wish to join it, and possible announcement of the first national action plans to implement it.
The fifth element is finalisation of the work on the future of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and on strengthening the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), building on the agreement in the Eurogroup Plus ministerial meeting on 21 March, and you all know that the terms of reference of the European Stability Mechanism mention the fact that information will be provided to Parliament.
The European Council will finalise this work at its next meeting and adopt a comprehensive package of measures to respond to the crisis, preserve financial stability and lay the ground for sustainable, job-creating growth.
Let me turn now to Libya and the southern neighbourhood.
On the basis of the European Parliament resolution of 10 March 2011, the European Council's conclusions of 11 March 2011 and UN Security Council Resolution 1973, the Council has expressed its concerns at the present situation in Libya and has condemned the gross and systematic violation of human rights, the violence and brutal repression perpetrated by the regime against the Libyan people.
On 28 February 2011, in record time, the Council adopted decisions concerning restrictive measures against the regime.
On 10 March further sanctions were added, including an asset freeze, a further travel ban, an arms embargo and an embargo on equipment which might be used for internal repression - thus going beyond the measures imposed by the previously adopted UN Security Council resolution.
Acting upon the mandate given by the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 March, the Council has today adopted, by written procedure, the Hungarian Presidency's proposal to extend restrictive measures to further Libyan individuals and entities, and these sanctions already extend to the national oil company of Libya.
The Council expressed its satisfaction after the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1973 and underlined its determination to contribute to its implementation.
By contributing in a differentiated way, the EU and the Member States are determined to act collectively and resolutely with all the international partners, particularly the Arab League and other regional stakeholders, to give full effect to these decisions.
The High Representative has been asked to develop further planning in accordance with the UN resolution and the European Council declaration of 11 March on support for humanitarian assistance and civil protection operations, including the use of maritime resources for this purpose.
The High Representative will maintain contacts with the UN Secretary-General and countries in the region, including Egypt and Tunisia, and has stated that this process should be undertaken as a matter of urgency in order to allow further consideration by the European Council by the end of this week.
Furthermore, the Member States have underlined once again their solidarity with those of their number most directly affected by migratory movements, and have reiterated their readiness to provide necessary support as the situation evolves.
As early as 23 February, the Presidency activated the EU's civil protection mechanism to support the evacuation of EU citizens from Libya - a decision also supported by the High Representative.
Evacuation was the most important issue on 3 March, and it is still very important that Member States help with the repatriation of non-EU citizens, mostly migrant workers.
On the southern neighbourhood: at its extraordinary meeting on 11 March, the European Council declared that democratic uprisings are bringing dramatic changes to the southern neighbourhood, creating new hope and an opportunity to build a future based on democracy, pluralism, the rule of law, human rights and social justice.
It is for the countries in the region to decide their future in a peaceful and democratic way.
Lastly, adoption by June 2011 of the regulation enhancing the capabilities of Frontex is, I think, a must.
I will not speak on Japan because we now have a new item on the agenda.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, as I said last week to this Parliament, what Europe will put in place at this European Council on 24-25 March will be a real game-changer in terms of economic governance.
In other words, it will be a cornerstone in our comprehensive response to the crisis, and will mark the beginning of its full implementation with the setting up of a new economic governance framework - and, hopefully, a European Monetary Union (EMU) walking on its two legs (the Monetary Union and the Economic Union) instead of limping along.
The economic policy of each Member State is now recognised as a matter that should concern all Member States and all European institutions.
Not only do we have ex ante coordination, but we can do it in parallel with the economic policy and budgetary policy.
The first European Semester kicked off earlier in January with the Commission's Annual Growth Survey, which presents 10 priorities for this year, all firmly anchored in the Europe 2020 Strategy for growth and jobs.
This is the principle of 11 March 2011.
I think it is a very important political principle that can be added to the important legislative decisions that have been taken, and also some that you are now preparing.
In close cooperation with the Commission, Member States are now finalising their National Reform Programmes as well as their Stability or Convergence Programmes.
I would again like to thank the Hungarian Presidency for all its efforts which led to a successful compromise.
I know that the Commission can count on strong support from this House, and I hope we will have a final agreement by June.
Finally, with the current European Financial Stability Fund, and by 2013 the permanent European Stability Mechanism (ESM), we will have a backstop tool to guarantee the stability of the Euro area as a whole, if needed.
Following our proposals, the agreement for the future ESM clearly states the central role of the Commission in the process, as well as the implication of the European Parliament.
It will be for the Commission to assess, in liaison with the European Central Bank (ECB), the existence of a risk to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and to undertake analysis of the sustainability of the public debt of the Member State concerned.
The Council and the Commission will inform the European Parliament on a regular basis about the establishment and the operations of the ESM.
I think at the end we have an agreement that is fully compatible with a Community approach and I want once again to thank Parliament for its interest and commitment to that approach.
We have mobilised EUR 30 million to provide assistance to refugees and migrants and, as you know, we have several teams on the ground and we maintain close contact with countries of origin and donors.
The no-fly zone military actions, implemented pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1973, brought about new circumstances that need to be factored in when delivering humanitarian assistance in a secure and efficient way to those in need, either at the borders or inside Libya.
Honourable Members, as you see, we have a very full agenda for the next European Council and the Commission has been working hard to develop this comprehensive European response to the crisis outside our borders, but also regarding the economic situation.
We will, together with the European Parliament, play a central role in the implementation of the comprehensive response to the economic crisis.
These events should certainly be taken on board by all countries that have nuclear power plants and it is good that this Parliament is organising a debate on nuclear safety, though we should not lose sight of the fact that in Europe we need to be increasing and not reducing our energy independence.
I would like to highlight the fact that European States have taken the initiative in these operations and were the first to intervene within the framework of the UN mandate, which itself was the initiative of several European States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following last week's euro area summit, at which the groundwork was done, the Council's flagship measures this week will relate to strengthening the euro and making progress on economic governance.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is in favour of increasing the funds available to support the euro and of making the ad hoc instrument we adopted last year to help Greece and Ireland more permanent.
This political will reflects the responsible attitude that Member States have taken in managing this unprecedented crisis in our single currency's history.
The Community method must remain the rule and the intergovernmental method the exception.
A very strong majority within Parliament supports this principle and the Barroso Commission also supports us in this approach, quite simply because it is vital for the future of the European Union.
Europe must get back on the path of growth and employment, and the measures that are taking shape are a step in this direction.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, firstly I would like to give the President of the Commission good wishes on his birthday today.
I hope so and we support you in it, Mr Barroso.
It is also the expression of the economic might of the euro area in competition with other continents.
He is an Aries like me and like Marielle de Sarnez and Joseph Daul.
But carry on the fight with us and do not accept this procedure or the proposal that is on the table for the time being, as it will not do the job and will not stabilise the euro in the coming months or years.
Now, in the Libyan affair we have demonstrated the European Union's lack of unity.
I find it appalling that all the EU Member States did not adopt the same position in the UN Security Council: three voted in favour and one abstained.
Some outrageous decisions have been made within the EU institutions.
What we have also seen in the last few days is an attempt by some Member States to interfere in the fiscal and tax sovereignty of others.
Turning to Libya, developments in Libya have reminded us once again that we should not expect too much from the so-called EU Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Prime Minister Cameron and President Sarkozy have made and pushed through decisions - not the EU representatives.
They also know that this will require profound and radical change on the part of governments, businesses and themselves.
Indeed, when people talk about rebalancing flexibility and security, we know full well that this means more flexibility and less security.
What we want from the Council, therefore - in addition to everything that is on the table today of course - is a bold initiative designed to provide Member States and the European Union with stable, fair tax revenue.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, economic and monetary union without effective coordination of economic policy will not work.
Let me remind you that the stability pact's 3% limit has been breached 73 times since 1999, 46 times in a way that is barely tolerable under the Treaty - yet in not one single case has a penalty been imposed.
However, I fear that in the forthcoming decisions on economic governance and on the European Stability Mechanism it will be all about cuts.
That is not the same as a sustainable budget.
This means speeding up the policy of economic governance in Europe.
This new economic governance comes after a crisis, a rude crisis in the form of the Member States' public debt.
Introducing monetary union, without an overall strategy of economic governance and coordination between the Member States, was a risk which was tested in practice and operated along general lines.
However, we must ensure not only that we achieve the objective of stability in the euro area, but also that we achieve a high level of growth and competitiveness in Europe and that we increase and maintain jobs for European citizens, especially young people.
I would also like to take this opportunity to reject in no uncertain terms the way that Mr Schulz conducts himself in this House with respect to me. (ES) Madam President, the crisis in North Africa is putting the mechanisms established in the Treaty of Lisbon to the test.
Yesterday, in the High Representative's appearance before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we stressed the positive aspects of European Union action: Baroness Ashton's communication that distinguishes between the short, medium and long terms; rapid application of Resolution 1970 of the United Nations Security Council; the ability to negotiate with the Arab League; and the European Council meeting.
However, it is only fair to say here today that there are still certain questions being asked by European public opinion and, therefore, by our citizens.
It is clear that we still have much to improve as regards our capacity for coordination, and much to improve too in the decision-making process.
If it had not been for France's courage, determination and consistency - and that is how it must be put - in recognising the rebels, in sending the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to the Security Council, in calling the Elysée summit and in applying the resolution, Lady Ashton, Colonel Gaddafi's troops would already have entered Benghazi. (BG) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus slightly more on one of the hot topics which will be debated tomorrow, namely, the situation in Libya.
The pact for the euro involves too little Community method.
The Council has supported resolution 1973.
I agree with Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra when he says that France has played a very good role.
Moreover, I hope that the newly appointed head of the transitional government in Libya will soon be visiting us here in Europe. (PL) Madam President, all the objectives which the Euro Group has set itself, and which are sometimes completely reasonable, can be achieved successfully with the help of the economic, social and taxation policies of the Member States.
At least, that is what I see happens on Europe's roads. (PT) Madam President, the Portuguese Parliament will today vote against the fourth stability programme tabled by the government in 12 months.
The majority of Members of the Portuguese Parliament will vote against this document because of the package's content, but also because it was presented in Brussels before it was known about, negotiated or approved in Portugal.
Do not, moreover, say that it is a matter for the Portuguese, because if austerity is ours, it is ours because the decisions are yours too. (NL) Madam President, the High Representative indicated yesterday afternoon, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that he wanted to offer concrete support to what we have begun to refer to as 'the new Egypt' in addressing the large-scale housing shortage.
We do not know what will happen after the conflict in Libya, but we can be sure that nothing will ever be the same.
Thank you. (PT) Madam President, it has already been said that, regrettably, at this moment in the Portuguese Parliament, the government could be collapsing.
We had an opportunity to strengthen the pact, with automatic penalties, in particular, but what happens?
Therefore the workers and the peoples are opposing such measures, as happened on Saturday in Portugal at a demonstration involving more than 300 000 people, and is happening today in the Portuguese Parliament, where the majority of its Members will surely do the same to the fourth austerity package.
However, Mr President, we also want to say 'no' here to the bombing being carried out by the international force in Libya, just as we said 'no' to the repression of the struggling peoples in every country in the region, including Libya, Bahrain and Yemen. - (SK) Mr President, the responsible management of financial resources is a basic precondition for the good and stable functioning of households, manufacturing or trading firms, regions, nation states and also federations of states.
The Competitiveness Pact defines certain parameters which eurozone countries in particular should adhere to.
Unfortunately the pact will be half open because the amendment to Article 136, as debated and voted in our Committee on Constitutional Affairs has fallen.
What unites us is the single market, much more so than the euro.
It is not a euro crisis; it is a crisis in some euro Member States.
A few words on Libya and the southern Mediterranean.
It is also an alarm call to redesign and reform and strengthen the common security and defence policy so as to equip the Union with common command capacities and military capacities. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 24 March, will be a symbolic day.
Well, 24 March sees the birth of the 'Brussels consensus'.
The Pact for the euro unfortunately proposes to make wage austerity a permanent fixture.
Reagan was right all along. (EL) Mr President, exactly a year ago, the leaders of the European Union and the Greek Prime Minister decided that Greece should play the part of economic and social guinea pig.
The leaders of the European Union have the same fate in store for other Member States that take recourse to the pact for the euro, which is the European version of the Greek memorandum.
We are against this pact, because we do not want to exterminate workers, pensioners and the unemployed.
I would like to reiterate the words of Konrad Adenauer, the first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said: 'We are on the side of freedom'.
This is our task as this great change takes place in the Arab world: to make our contribution as the European Union and to so in a united and resolute manner. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the measures that have been announced, I wonder if European policy is doing enough.
I wonder if beyond the humanitarian effort, we really know what to do if the application of Resolution 1973 is not enough and if some countries go beyond their mandate.
On the contrary, the common currency is an important part of the solution, and that is the point as far as a country like Sweden is concerned, too.
Next, I should like to say to all my fellow Members, at a time when Portugal is experiencing a political crisis, that the Portuguese Social Democratic Party (PSD), which is part of the PPE Group, is ready to govern following elections.
The PS government was a spectacular failure.
Therefore, we are now here to say that we give every guarantee to the European Union and, in particular, to our partners in the euro area, that we will fulfill every criteria, which will be demanding and will force the Portuguese people to make sacrifices.
The solution is new elections, new government, new credibility for Portugal, and also for Europe and the euro area. (MT) Mr President, two weeks ago, this Parliament adopted a brave political resolution, appealing - amongst other things - for the creation of a no-fly zone over Libya.
Mr President, I think it is important that we continue to implement this resolution and carry on supporting the Libyan people, while at the same time protecting them from further massacres and helping them in their transition towards democracy.
As for the European Council, I welcome the new text of the stability mechanism, as well as the euro area reform package.
Therefore, while deciding on new steps, let us prove our political will and credibility by completing the four freedoms on which European cooperation is based, including the internal market, and implementing in full the Services Directive. (NL) Mr President, first of all, I would just like to express my sympathy and condolences to the people of Japan.
I would like to congratulate the French President on having ensured, at the very last minute, that the European Union was actually able to do something in consultation with NATO, but the suffering of the people is not over yet and it would be wise of us to be modest about our role.
Mr President, like Mr Barroso I would also like to concentrate on the economic situation, particularly as my country is the recipient of an EU and IMF bailout at this particular time.
However, we have a new government and new hope in Ireland.
However, there are two things we need in particular to do that.
However, it cannot be denied that we also have to talk about internal challenges - challenges concerning the way the European Union and its institutions operate; challenges for internal function, common foreign policy and common security and defence policy.
However, I would also like to have seen the EU rather than NATO remembering its own decisions as regards capacity and capability, and being able to implement the arms embargo using its Member States' naval forces.
I believe that Paragraph 8 of UN Security Council Resolution 1973 provides an irrefutable legal basis for ensuring, by every means possible, respect for the no-fly zone established with the precise aim of protecting civilians.
Lastly, coordination with the Arab League is very important, because ongoing regional support will be an essential aspect of our actions in Libya.
Finally, we need to be clear in our resolve to end the violence against civilians.
The next EU summit can further strengthen this process.
The weekend Council meeting may bring a breakthrough in European politics, elevating European solidarity to a new level.
An important element of the package of measures proposed for adoption is the macroeconomic coordination cycle, namely the European Semester, the first phase of which is concluded by the synthesis report prepared by the Hungarian Presidency.
This report is also important because it gives us an opportunity of sketching an economic picture of a post-crisis, competitive European Union.
Everything is set for a final agreement on the European Union's new economic policy framework to be reached at the forthcoming European Council meeting in the second half of the week.
In the renewed framework for economic governance our responsibility, and the responsibility of the European Parliament, is very great, because it would be good to adopt these six legislative proposals at first reading.
It is essential that the pricing of the EU financial assistance mechanism is affordable and that it is fair.
The external value of a country's currency should reflect the demand for, and supply of, its currency which of course should then reflect the demand for its exports, visible and invisible, and the demand for its imports, visible and invisible, as well as capital movements.
It is vital to maintain a large proportion of the post-2013 EU budget for the cohesion policy to ensure that the European Union meets its ambitious targets and provides appropriate support for the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
We showed solidarity by agreeing with the amendment of the treaty and by understanding that we are in a difficult economic and financial situation and that we must take very specific actions regarding economic coordination and surveillance.
This mechanism and the Guarantee Fund are only intended for euro area members, while countries not in the euro area will be sidelined, risking fragmentation of the European Union and rejection of the Community method.
Instead of undemocratic and restrictive policies, Commissioner, I would like to express the ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, the bad news today was that the Portuguese conservatives are rejecting this package in the hope of new elections being held.
The markets are also watching to see if the European Union can take decisions.
Regrettably, the reputation of this whole project was tarnished by Sarkozy's and Merkel's neoliberal... (The President cut off the speaker) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me first of all thank the honourable Members for a very responsible debate on next week's European Council.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to comment on several speeches concerning Libya and Japan before commenting on economic issues.
The no-fly-zone military action implemented according to UN Security Council Resolution 1973 brought new circumstances which need to be taken into account when delivering humanitarian assistance in a secure and efficient way to those in need, either at the borders or inside Libya.
Although the events in Japan have no immediate health consequences for citizens in the European Union, it is important to take stock of EU nuclear safety policies, as well as contingency plans and safety measures in place.
As President Barroso said in his opening remarks, we will respond to the challenge with a comprehensive strategy which builds on the strengths, values and institutions of the European Union.
Secondly, both the Council and the Parliament are delivering on your commitment to conclude the Commission's legislative package on economic governance by this summer.
We shall in due course propose a regulation based on Article 136 of the Treaty clarifying the steps to define policy conditionality and to ensure consistency with the EU framework for country surveillance.
To conclude, once the European Council confirms its full commitment to all of these elements of our comprehensive economic strategy to overcome the crisis, the European Union will be well on track for turning the economic tide this year, 2011.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, honourable Members, first, I thank you for this debate.
However, we live in a single Union, and we have a common monetary policy and a common currency.
Therefore, I think it is also important to say that, as President Barroso also mentioned, we have tools in our hands: further developing the single market, removing still existing obstacles, and the Europe 2020 Strategy.
I would like to say a few words on the Portuguese and Irish situations.
As regards Portugal, I merely wish to point out that Portugal's announced package of measures was welcomed by the Heads of State and Government at the EU Summit on 11 March, and it was also welcomed by the President of the European Central Bank.
On 4 February, a good number of Member States and many Members of the European Parliament with whom I spoke at the time were worried about where we were heading and what would become of the European Union if we outsourced important matters.
The Hungarian Prime Minister suggested and requested as early as 4 February that a reference be made in the conclusions of the European Council with regard to also implementing what was then called the Competitiveness Pact in accordance with the Treaties.
The European Commission, one of our most Community-oriented bodies, has an important duty in every element of our comprehensive economic answer of the six laws, and therefore the European Parliament has also been given guarantees that it will have access to the information.
The Pact for the eis also open and Member States, such as my own country, will be able to join if they want to.
Finally, as a last request, I repeat my wish that we pursue the debate on the package of six legislative proposals on economic governance in the most constructive spirit possible.
I think that it is fair to say, and I believe in plain speaking, that Parliament was quicker in deciding this than the Council.
As to the question of how united we are and how effective the European Union's common foreign and security policy is, here again I will speak plainly.
Then, on 21 March, the Foreign Ministers, the trustees of the areas of the common foreign and security policy, and common security and defence policy, reiterated their commitment.
By then, UN Security Council Resolution 1973 was available.
The common foreign and security policy may not work perfectly but I believe that some very important decisions have been made, albeit at the last minute.
Thank you very much, Madam President.
Here, we will be laying the foundation for a stable euro and a thorough strengthening of economic cooperation in Europe.
The Pact for the euro which is now before us is, fortunately, much more balanced than the original options.
It is now time that we took the important next step, because the European project cannot be limited to a pure, bald financial-monetary project.
It will be a shot in the arm for our economy, for employment and the environment, of course, and entirely feasible, on the basis of the Commission's Roadmap 2050 calculations.
in writing. - The upcoming Council meeting is indeed a very important one.
President Herman Van Rompuy, in his public invitation letter, notes that 'as an important step in the new framework of the European semester, we should give guidance for national economic policies with a view to implementing our Europe 2020 Strategy'.
The Europe 2020 Strategy aims at an employment rate of 75% among men and women aged between 20-64.
in writing. - (RO) I think that it is absolutely imperative for the investments in education, research and innovation to be made immediately with the support of all Member States so as to achieve the Europe 2020 strategy's targets, thereby making the economic recovery a reality.
The European Union needs a skilled workforce in every area, people with the appropriate expertise and higher productivity in all its sectors.
In conclusion, we need new incentives for the Member States of the European Union to develop exclusive economic zones.
However, our citizens cannot be burdened with a further structural crisis.
I would welcome an initiative in which the 143 nuclear power plants in Europe were immediately taken out of the grid and sustainable energy sources were used instead.
However, I also share the idea that, in terms of budgetary sustainability and responsibility, the agencies system could be improved.
To conclude, during the last discharge procedure, Parliament also sought to draw attention to the Commission's and Parliament's control over the decentralised agencies; this must be strengthened, as experience has shown.
However, nuclear safety is defined by European legislation, which must be reviewed, taking into account the nuclear plant safety tests proposed recently by the Commission.
The EU needs a common energy policy which must be based on striking the ideal balance between renewable energy, new technologies for conventional energy resources and the need to produce nuclear energy in safe conditions.
Furthermore, the European Commission must submit as soon as possible a plan for managing the migrant flows, which will take into account the solidarity between Member States and strengthen Frontex's technical and operational capabilities.
However, this plan must not detract from the EU's focus on the Eastern Partnership.
The central role of the European Commission in the process of evaluating the financial situation of Member States augurs well for the future of cooperation, because this protects it from the instability which would threaten it if the intergovernmental approach were chosen.
At tomorrow's meeting, the Council is also going to accept the Pact for the euro, which was adopted at the meeting of euro area Member States on 17 March.
Faced with this, the struggling Portuguese workers gave the necessary response to this in Portugal on Saturday in a great national demonstration.
