Conclusions of the European Council meeting (25-26 March 2010) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission: Conclusions of the European Council held on 25-26 March 2010.
President of the European Council. - Mr President, honourable Members, dear colleagues, today I report back to you on the first formal meeting of the European Council that I have had the honour to chair.
That agenda was supplemented by having to deal urgently - for the second time in two months - with the situation in Greece and related questions concerning the eurozone.
How, in what circumstances and by whom financial support should be provided, if needed, to the Greek Government, was the subject of much debate in the run-up to the European Council.
In the event, a large number of bilateral contacts between Member States and myself, the conclusions of the meeting of the eurozone ministers on 15 March, proposals by the Commission on loans by the Member States and intense negotiations between France and Germany helped pave the way to finding a compromise acceptable to all.
In the statement, we reaffirm that all euro-area members must conduct sound policies in line with the agreed rules and should be aware of their shared responsibility for the economic and financial stability of the area.
Those measures were requested by the informal European Council of 11 February.
On the basis of the mechanism of solidarity we put in place, we stand ready, should market financing prove insufficient, to step in and provide support through a European-led operation of bilateral loans from the euro area Member States, in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund.
It will present its conclusions before the end of this year.
The European Council will take the final political decisions.
The Greek case highlighted the limitations of the current fiscal surveillance mechanism in the euro area.
The Task Force has to deal with two aspects of the problem, revealed by the recent crisis: responsibility - how to prevent such budgetary indiscipline happening again - and solidarity - how to avoid improvisation, if a financial crisis eventually happens again in a Member State.
The second item giving rise to comments was the paragraph in which we stated that 'we commit to promote a strong coordination of economic policies in Europe.
We want to make full use of the European Council as the body in which we can coordinate both Union and national instruments to improve our economic performance.
The European Council is neither the executive nor the legislative power of the Union.
The last two of these five targets - education and social inclusion - gave rise to some comment.
As regards social inclusion and the reduction of poverty, some have said that this is an outcome, not a means.
Besides identifying these five targets - on which further work will be necessary - the European Council underlined that rapid progress is required on strengthening financial regulation and supervision, both within the Union, where the European Parliament has important work before it concerning financial regulation, and in international fora such as the G20, to ensure a level playing field at the global level.
The European Council went on to have a discussion on climate change and on how to refocus our efforts after Copenhagen.
A global and comprehensive legal agreement remains the only effective way to reach the agreed objective of staying below a 2°C increase in global temperatures.
The next meeting, in Bonn, should set the road map for taking the negotiations forward.
The Union and its Member States will implement their commitment to provide EUR 2.4 billion annually over the 2010-2012 period for fast-start financing, and we remain committed to jointly mobilise USD 100 billion per year by 2020 to help developing countries fight climate change.
The permanent President of the European Council has to be a facilitator and a builder of consensus in an institution that can only work by finding the necessary and sufficiently ambitious compromises.
I had hoped that my start as permanent President of the European Council would have been easier.
Let me explain briefly how the solution has been achieved and what this means from the Commission's point of view.
I will start with the financial stability mechanism and then move on to the Europe 2020 strategy.
This is why the Commission, and more specifically President Barroso and Commissioner Rehn, took the initiative, through a mixture of consensus-building work and public advocacy, to help Member States come together around our shared interests.
On the other hand, in the 10 days before the European Council, the Commission repeatedly pressed for a decision for such a mechanism based on two key principles: stability on the one hand and solidarity on the other.
If you remember our debate before the European Council: these are the two principles all of you have been calling for.
With this we now have a workable mechanism in place and ready to use.
The Commission knows that Parliament shares its view that it is much better to anticipate the need for coordination ahead of time and to have the right mechanisms already in place when needed.
Let me now turn to the discussion of the Europe 2020 strategy.
We have already discussed here the urgency with which we should action, the need to galvanise society to change our approach, and the essential role of the EU in obtaining a successful transformation of our economy.
We know that, if we collectively manage to achieve them, Europe will boost its competitive edge, Europe will preserve its way of life, and Europe will strengthen its position as a global player.
I would like to say a word about the target that was most intensively discussed, meaning the one on action against poverty.
Therefore I can assure you that the Commission will be keeping up the pressure to keep a target against poverty as a top priority.
I would like to ask you to participate fully in this debate, explaining that this is not about a centrally imposed diktat.
Over dinner, the European Council discussed the forthcoming G20 summit on the basis of introductory comments by President Barroso.
Now, as the immediate impact of the financial crisis fades, the G20 faces the challenge of keeping up its momentum for a joint approach to the policy issues that need to be addressed if the world wants to come out of the crisis in a better shape.
The Commission acknowledges that Parliament is already engaged in this effort.
As you know my colleague Commissioner Connie Hedegaard has already embarked on a programme of outreach.
We must be consistent in our commitment to an effective international agreement, if the other most important players are ready to take part.
In summary, the Commission has provided strong input into this European Council, the first formal meeting under the successful chairmanship of the permanent President of the European Council, Herman van Rompuy.
Mr President, President Van Rompuy, Commission Vice-President Šefčovič, the European Council was dominated by the problems in the euro area and the EU 2020 strategy that aims to put Europe back on the path of growth and jobs for our citizens.
All the Heads of State or Government agreed to strengthen the European economic governance structure and commit themselves to much stronger coordination of economic policy in Europe.
After all, as far as our citizens in the European Union are concerned, promises do not count.
The only things that matter to our citizens are the results.
You have got off to a strong start as the first permanent President of the European Council, and it is you who has the important task of further transforming the European Council into a body with actual political commitment to economic management of the European Union.
We expect you both to fully respect our institutional role and to involve us actively in matters, and not only after the event but also beforehand, in the development of the proposals.
We also expect the European Commission to play a very active role in the further development of the EU 2020 strategy.
Solidarity and responsibility rightly take centre stage in this plan.
Yet the situation is still worrying, and so I wish to reiterate once more that solidarity works both ways.
This will be crucial to resolving the crisis.
The Council must find solutions.
It is not your fault, it is the fault of the Heads of State or Government, who are not prepared to get to work on these solutions and who are not prepared to seize upon new ideas - like those, for example, that have been put on the table by Europe's social democrats - that are based on both pillars, which is to say on stability, but also on solidarity.
Of course, solidarity does not simply start when something has gone wrong - real friends warn each other in good time when something is going wrong.
It is therefore also unfair to treat Greece in this way now, after having stood by and watched it for years, actually well aware that something was wrong, and to say now, after the event, 'You cannot count on our solidarity now'.
That is really important to us in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament. (Applause) Mr Van Rompuy, you mentioned that this was your first formal European Council meeting.
You will have a second European Council in June.
It will not be easy, given that certain elections are taking place, associated with which is a very real fear that perhaps parties will be coming into power that are even less inclined towards close cooperation in Europe.
I wish you all the best, though, and I hope that the Heads of State or Government do not leave you hanging as they did at your first formal European Council.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to make two remarks on last month's Council.
I hope that I am wrong, but I do not think that it can work for the simple reason that it is a system of bilateral loans and not a system - a European solution - under which a single loan is made by the European Commission to Greece, which was the initial idea. (Applause) If you look at the markets, it is very apparent at the moment that they do not believe in this system.
That is 300 base points higher than the lowest interest rate in the European Union, which is 3%.
Since there is now a discussion inside the European Union between different Member States about what the interest rate applicable to the bilateral loans should be, that even increased yesterday to 400 base points, which is 4%.
It is absolutely necessary that the European Commission return as fast as possible to its initial idea of a European loan, issued by the European Commission.
That is the only way to help the Greek Government achieve its targets.
My second point is that what we need now is more than merely a mechanism for Greece or other countries.
What we need now is a courageous European Commission coming forward with a package of economic reforms and monetary reforms, and we need those as fast as possible.
What we need now is a package of the magnitude which we had in the past from Jacques Delors, who at a certain moment came forward with a package of European economic and monetary union, or the internal market, to solve the problems.
Only the European Commission can do this.
The Council cannot do it - not even the President of the Council.
The second thing we need, as soon as possible, is for the European bond market to lower interest rates for all the countries in the European Union.
I fully support what Mrs Wortmann-Kool said a few moments ago about our needing a stronger governance method.
Colleagues, we have to think about something: if the Council does not in the coming months do what is necessary in terms of a bolder 2020 Strategy, then what can we as the European Parliament do?
What we can do is: in the coming weeks Parliament has to agree to the broad economic guidelines and to give an opinion on them.
First of all, there must be a bold proposal, which I hope will be on the table in June, and then we can do our job and approve this bolder approach and the broad economic guidelines.
I say this because, in my view, the only positive that resulted from the most recent summit was the fact that an end was put to the very ignoble bickering between Paris, Berlin and Brussels - also involving the ECB - in connection with the questions of whether there would be any help granted to Greece at all, how Greece could be helped, whether there was a need for a European Monetary Fund and whether or not the IMF should be called in.
I also do not understand how you can say that what was agreed at the summit is already helping Greece, as the interest rate that Greece has to pay today - I have just checked this again - is not 6%, but 7%.
I also think that a very strange, subliminal signal was sent to Greece there, as what was described during and after the Council meeting, during and after the summit, as a safety net really is no safety net at all.
We get the impression that this is more a case of teaching a harsh lesson, but we do not get the impression that teaching harsh lessons is what could help the European Union at the moment. (Applause) This very negative energy towards Greece goes hand in hand with the decision not to get involved in solving the problems in Greece.
It is inescapable that we must coordinate our economic policy, our tax policy, how we draw up our public budgets, how we ensure competitiveness, with each other much more and that we must assume joint responsibility.
I have read that many Members found themselves wishing that they had Helmut Kohl back when this was happening.
Mr Verhofstadt, I am happy to accept your call for more work on Europe 2020.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the crisis in Greece of course dominated the headlines following the European Council but the meeting itself also took important first steps in the Europe 2020 initiative.
However, in seeking to address these problems, the crisis must not be used as a pretext for extending further the powers of the European Union.
Greece needs our support and encouragement but asking foreign taxpayers, especially in countries outside the eurozone, to pick up the bill is difficult.
Ultimately of course only the Greeks themselves can sort out the problems of the Greek public sector debt and we wish them well in their efforts to find their way out of the crisis.
We must never forget, as we deal with the current economic and financial crisis, that we were facing enormous economic challenges even before the crisis struck, such as the growth of China and the Far East and our increasing energy insecurity.
The Commission needs to avoid making proposals which will be a burden on industry and we in this Parliament must show responsibility and exercise self-restraint.
Let me close today by expressing my hope that support in the European Council for economic freedom and reform will be substantially reinforced in the weeks ahead - I hope also, perhaps, helped by a new Conservative Government in the United Kingdom.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, we are in the presence of a great man today - the President of Europe.
You have come back to us today and now, with the approval of Mr Sarkozy and Angela Merkel, you are the head of a new economic government for 500 million people and you have launched your 10-year plan - your wish list.
It was launched in this Parliament to much acclaim and it was a total and utter crippling failure, even before the global recession hit.
You were not able to come up with a plan at that Summit, and you cannot bail out Greece without the International Monetary Fund coming in to save, at least for the moment, your euro dream.
Most working Europeans can only dream of such things; indeed, the Dutch Government is even looking to increase this age from 65 to 67 years.
Greek workers are taking retirement at 63 and we have to foot the bill.
The Greek Government has taken some measures, some courageous measures that I applaud.
They were laid down in the informal Council statement of 11 February.
The Greek Government is convinced that the famous spreads will narrow only if the results of this entire policy of budgetary discipline are visible.
The basic truth, therefore, is that we must start by tackling the very root of the problems in order to solve them; in other words, the budgetary problems of one country and of other countries.
Secondly, the Greek Government has shown itself to be in complete agreement with the conclusions of the European Council.
Next - and it is Mrs Wortmann-Kool who requested this - we will, along with the President of Parliament and others, ascertain how we can work with Parliament during the period in which the task force is operational.
This important task force must be very ambitious.
However, we can be preventative in a way that does not endanger the single currency - the euro - or the common market, the internal market.
As I have just said, we will ascertain how we can work with Parliament in the period during which the task force is operational.
As regards the 2020 strategy, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European Commission has really grasped the essence of our European social model.
The excellent concept of a socially and environmentally corrected market economy is, therefore, one of our objectives, our targets.
We have decided on social inclusion and, amongst other things, the fight against poverty.
There have been disagreements of course, but I believe that we have convinced our colleagues - in the Ecofin Council, which I attended, in the General Affairs Council and in the European Council - that this balance between the social, the economic and the environmental should be maintained in the approach to the 2020 strategy.
If it has not already been refined, I can assure you that it will be in June.
There is a tendency to forget very quickly.
Parliament has a major role to play in terms of financial regulation.
The G20 worked hard at the start of the crisis.
However, as I said in my introductory address, it is far harder to reach agreements when things are going a little better than when we are in the midst of the storm, surrounded by problems.
The G20, aided by its creator, the European Union, therefore has a very important programme in June in Toronto and, in the second half of the year, in South Korea.
We have decided on an economic strategy with five objectives; not sixty, but five.
So I would like to thank you once again, Mr Van Rompuy, for a quick answer to some of these matters.
The task forces will, of course, discuss these issues systematically with the three European institutions, so that we can develop a common strategy.
The European Parliament is fully ready for this.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I also want to react to the initial discussion.
I would like to thank Parliament for its many excellent ideas, for its very good proposals and also for the constructive criticism we receive in this House, because it helps us further in our work.
Both the President of the European Council and I have been very open in describing how difficult the situation was at the European Council.
We have been very open about the differences and divergences of opinion in looking for solutions to Greece's situation and on the EU 2020 strategy, and we have both said that we might have wished for better solutions.
I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their support for the EU 2020 Strategy.
I can only agree with the President of the European Council that we are very optimistic about the future of this strategy and about reaching a political agreement on the targets.
This is because the leaders in the European Union know that those targets are very important for the preservation of the European way of life.
Therefore, the discussion we are having at this point is how to better motivate the Member States and how to better calculate the targets so they are more precise and better monitored in the future.
I am sure that with the help of Parliament we can achieve those goals, and can achieve a positive outcome at the June European Council.
We can coordinate, and do better within our European framework.
However, it is very clear that if we want to move out of the crisis and to live in a better world in the future, then we need global coordination, especially when it comes to such important matters as macroeconomic stability, economic policy and measures in the very sensitive financial field.
One of the big lessons to be learnt from this crisis is that we should never have allowed the deficits to emerge as we have let them do.
When there is talk about action I note that the Commission and sometimes the Council talk about what Member States should do rather than what we could do together in the European Union.
I welcome a task force, but we should not waste too much time because we know a number of the concrete actions that we should take: decrease and eliminate red tape; ensure that we invest more at European level on research and science; change the budget so that it allows for more growth and innovation; ensure that we can advance further with the knowledge economy by implementing the Services Directive and expanding the Services Directive to new areas; ensure that we have mobility in the labour market; ensure that we develop the financial markets to make them more stable, but not protectionist - because I would like to say to the Commission that creating new protectionism regarding financial markets does not help the European economy.
It would be good to have a task force but it would be even better without it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to the introduction by the President of the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission, and I have to say that I am not convinced by the conclusions.
Therefore, we call on the European Commission, on the Vice-President, who is standing in here for the President, and on the President of the Council, to adopt a strong political initiative, a legislative initiative: the Commission must set the agenda, and the Council must ensure that we do not trail in the wake of governments whose power and incisiveness is too often curbed by imminent electoral issues - yesterday in France and Italy, tomorrow in the United Kingdom and Germany - which paralyse the action of governments.
We also know that those who violated the Growth and Stability Pact are eurozone countries.
Therefore, I would ask you to look outwards and to include this aspect, too, in the EU 2020 strategy, as that is the only thing that can save us.
If not, we shall become the Bruges of the globalised world. (EL) Mr President, the value of the decision by the European Council which we are debating was seen yesterday: following a statement by an unnamed member of the Greek Government, a news agency stated that Greece did not want any involvement on the part of the International Monetary Fund.
With this decision, you are making the International Monetary Fund the guardian of the European Union, the guardian of the eurozone.
Apart from Greece, Spain and Portugal are taking harsh anti-grassroots measures so as to avoid the same fate and, as a result of this, poverty is increasing, unemployment is increasing, growth is slowing and the recession is getting worse.
Social dumping has become the only competitive tool in the European Union.
This is not the Europe of solidarity and cohesion. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, economic policy coordination, growth, employment, innovation, social inclusion: those are the slogans of the new 2020 strategy, that is, the one which, after the Lisbon Strategy, is supposed to guide Europe towards the end of the crisis that is weakening Europeans' spending power and spirits.
The 2020 strategy is disastrous because of the disastrous modus operandi of this Europe, which wants to imitate the planning-driven dirigisme and the statism that for a long time dominated national policies and which penalised spontaneously productive forces and local entities.
The problem is that, under pressure from the banks and the lobbyists, politicians have left these solutions full of as many holes as a Swiss cheese.
Secondly, I do not believe that the 2020 document instils enough ambition in the European Union as a global actor, especially when it comes to international trade.
We had a discussion on the same day about the crisis in Greece and some other points.
We have been trying to find out for 10 years, but the time has come to clarify this point, and if we concentrate too much on crisis management, we will overlook the crucial debate, which is to know how, with a single currency, we can carry out intelligent joint action.
New tools therefore have to be invented; this is how you must approach the mandate.
As regards the European Parliament's role in this whole affair, my proposal to you, and my proposal to my fellow Members here in the European Parliament, is that, in a spirit of healthy competition among institutions, we set up our own group of wise men with high-quality, expert, independent individuals who can make an important intellectual contribution to this debate, which is a critical one for the future of the euro area and, hence, of the European Union.
Let us compete together, but for heaven's sake let us get to grips with something on which we can really deliver, instead of having a whole lot of vague targets, which is what I see in this proposal. (EL) Mr President, the decisions by the European Council highlight once again the fact that the European Union is an imperialist, transnational union of capital.
Approval of the guidelines for the Europe 2020 strategy and the 'alleged' Community economic support mechanism are two sides of the same coin.
All possible means are being used to reduce the price of labour and increase the degree of exploitation, in a bid to increase the profitability of capital.
The decisions by the European Union and the bourgeois governments of its Member States move in this direction.
The opposing positions developing within the European Union and between the European Union and other imperialist centres and unions, such as the International Monetary Fund, are connected to the escalating competition between the capital which they represent.
The working and grassroots classes are setting their own single fighting front against the single EU strategy of capital and of the bourgeois governments of its Member States, in order to achieve radical change and satisfy the modern needs of the working, grassroots family. (NL) Mr President, it is stating the obvious to say that the 2020 objectives do indeed merit consideration; most of them, at least.
I should like to ask the President of the European Council to show the Dutch language rather more respect than he has done up to now. (EL) Mr President, it is a fact that economic union did not follow monetary union.
In the present case, the decision taken on Greece in terms of the involvement of the International Monetary Fund was, of course, accepted by the Greek Government, but it raises underlying questions.
The European Union should take appropriate steps here.
The European Commission and the European Council should pass more general decisions in order to prevent the same thing happening again in future.
However, we need to look at all this, especially research and competitiveness, in light of the decisions taken in 2000 and in light of the failure of the European Union as regards the Lisbon guidelines, which are obviously a failure on the part of the Member States to apply that policy.
At the same time, on the other side of the Atlantic, and in China and Japan, the issues of research and the knowledge and information society are rapidly taking centre stage.
However, the conclusions of the task force will help us to take definitive, final and purely European decisions, because that it is the only way we can move forward and address any new international crisis. (NL) President Van Rompuy, you will not be surprised that both I and my whole group are very disappointed with the results the Council has produced.
Modesty in that you are absolutely not presumptuous in the role of President of the European Council, and ambition in that you say your role mainly consists in developing a long-term strategy and rolling that out over the coming years.
First of all, as an Austrian MEP, I would like to offer my truly heartfelt thanks for the fact that you paid a visit to Austria over the last two days and also engaged with the national parliamentarians, who have already had the opportunity to discuss this project.
The criteria when it comes to money are clear.
It must be an instrument to achieve our objectives, including as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis.
This Europe 2020 lacks the projects, the clear instruments and, at the moment, the political will to have these objectives become reality.
My third point, Mr Van Rompuy, is that the Treaty of Lisbon is not enough, and that more intergovernmental collaboration is needed.
However, we do not want intergovernmental collaboration based around President Sarkozy and Chancellor Merkel, without the European Parliament and without the citizens.
There is a high risk that the financial and real economic crisis might turn into a public-debt crisis.
That is why there is nothing more urgent today than to find a new source of economic, social and political energy to start growing in a sustainable way.
Its tasks are shared between the European, national, regional and local levels of governance, and I believe that we can re-energise Europe by taking seriously its multi-level governance system to provide EU 2020 delivery mechanisms.
The regional and local levels of European governance are important co-owners of Europe's future.
Engaging local and regional Europe into the pursuit of common European objectives within the EU 2020 framework enlarges Europe's potential and our chances for growth. (EL) Mr President, a fortnight ago, the Heads of State or Government decided to set up a new European solidarity mechanism to support economies with serious economic difficulties, such as Greece, and to safeguard the stability of the eurozone.
However, over and above the uncontested political significance of the decision, speculative attacks have, unfortunately, continued - and even increased - over the last 24 hours, fed by certain ambiguities surrounding the support mechanism - which, Mr President of the Council, must be cleared up post-haste - and by rumours of unknown origin and purpose, of which various versions are circulating, the most recent version, which appeared in Greece the other day, being that there has been a call for the agreement of 25 March to be renegotiated.
However, you too should expressly and categorically state here in this House if the question of renegotiation of the agreement of 25 March has been raised by the Greek side over the past two weeks.
You must also have the will and strength to ask those Heads of State or Government who had the key roles and final word in formatting the final agreement to respect the letter and spirit of it, instead of making unfortunate statements about the rate of borrowing which will be imposed on Greece if it asks - which it has not done and does not intend to do - for the support mechanism to be activated. (ES) Mr President, I am going to try to say two new things on the subjects with which the European Council has been dealing: the 2020 strategy and the regulation of the financial markets.
Now the Commission and the European Council are coming to us with a proposal that is more of the same: a weak agreement that makes reference to Articles 121 and 136 of the Treaty.
I would like to see the Council taking these two ideas up again, because then we will be much closer to playing ball.
Finally, I wish to express my delight that the cohesion policy will at last be put forward as well, as an important area linked to the 2020 strategy.
I would have one suggestion in this regard, however: in any event, quantitative objectives ought to be set - as this was indicated in relation to the fight against poverty - and some sort of index should be developed in order to enable us to track progress or, for that matter, delays. (GA) Mr President, there is much that I would like to say on this subject but I do not have the time.
Mr Van Rompuy said that the Council discussed the moral crisis, but he did not elaborate; I would like him to so do.
Two weeks ago the management of the Anglo-Irish Bank got an increase in wages while taxpayers had EUR 40 billion and growing added to their bill over the next number of years.
Unless the perpetrators of these bad deeds are brought to heel, both individually and institutionally, not only will history repeat itself, Mr Van Rompuy, but it will repeat itself in exactly the same way as it occurred in the first place. (GA) I would like him to speak a little about this crisis. (EL) Mr President, many people are saying that it is not Greece, it is not the eurozone, it is the European Union that will ultimately be judged on these developments in times to come.
Following the Council decision in March, no European country is at risk of bankruptcy.
Greece is not asking for help, it is taking measures: the deficit has been reduced by 4% thanks to harsh measures which the people of Greece are heroically enduring, because they want to change the situation in Greece once and for all.
We forget that, as a form of political governance, this may be one of the causes of the moral crisis which we are all talking about, underlying the economic crisis.
President Van Rompuy, you spoke about budgetary discipline.
I believe that we could be much more flexible and could review the Stability Pact, because we do not have a vision of the future European model.
It fails to take account of the reality and demographic situation which we are facing and about which we have heard no mention in the EU 2020 agenda.
I believe that this matter will have to give us some food for thought because we should not allow a new design for the European social model to fail like the Lisbon Agenda has done.
Apart from the fact that we were a long way from achieving these goals even with the Lisbon Strategy - for example in the research and development rate - the question must be raised of whether many of these goals make sense.
The Europe 2020 strategy, for example, aims to increase the number of academics considerably.
The Commission must report to Parliament in detail about the macroeconomic information received from Greece, as well as the methodology applied and the exact time when the Commission was provided with each category of information and statistical data.
The Comission must clearly indicate where institutional and personal responsibility rests.
Secondly, as recognised by the Greek Prime Minister and emphasised by the public perception recorded in Eurobarometer in 2009, corruption was a key factor leading to Greece's economic situation.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to thank the honourable Members for their speeches, questions and proposals.
I would like to answer telegraphically some of those questions.
When it comes to the division of labour - what the Commission and what the Member States should do under the EU 2020 strategy - we now have a quite detailed description of the level on which the EU should act, and on what level the Member States should act.
When it comes to economic governance and better economic coordination, we intend to use fully the Lisbon Treaty provisions and will be coming forward with initial proposals in this area this spring.
When it comes to governance and EU 2020, we are looking for an adequate balance in how to motivate the Member States in a positive way, and at the same time how to ask for better, stronger, efforts from their side.
When it comes to another argument that I have heard, which is that EU 2020 is too much on the side of dirigisme, I cannot agree.
When it comes to SMEs, the heart of the strategy, and what we are hearing from them, is that they are asking us for is a level playing field across Europe and for a reduction in the administrative burden.
When it comes to the agriculture, this has certainly been present in the European 2020 strategy from the outset, but we should not view EU 2020 as an exhaustive list of everything we should do in the future or an exhaustive list of how we should treat agriculture in the future.
Having demanded that the Greek Government assume responsibility - which it has done, and it has taken some measures - we must invent a financial aid mechanism that respects the letter and the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
As Belgian Prime Minister, I contributed on behalf of my country something in the region of EUR 5 billion, and thus certain members - their parliaments and governments - have questioned why we cannot draw on these financial resources that have been made available to the International Monetary Fund in order to help a European country, after the effort made by the European countries.
Therefore, something had to be found, an exchange in kind, something creative that respects the Treaty.
The mechanism is, of course, a compromise mechanism, and it is one that had to be found because other mechanisms were not provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon.
He hopes that once the results of his efforts are visible, the spreads will decrease.
As for economic governance, Mr Šefčovič spoke about this; let us be very clear, the European Council works within its remit laid down in Article 15 of the Treaty.
As well as the climate challenge, there is the challenge for international trade and the challenge for international financial regulation; some of you rightly spoke about this.
Indeed, the internal market is an instrument, and it must be regulated via a large number of these objectives.
In the area of research and development and in others, we must use all the resources of the internal market.
Some of you have asked, 'What is the point of all this?' Well, the point is to have sufficient economic growth so that we can finance our social model properly, and it is also to serve a European Union that wants to play a role in the world but which cannot do so without being a greater economic force.
We cannot play a role in our world if we are not really a great, a very great, economic force. (NL) Since Mrs Van Brempt asked me this question, I should like to reply in Dutch.
It is the very first time the fight against poverty has been included in five key objectives, and yet we are told that it is a disgrace, that we have not gone far enough and that we must take a resit.
It is the very first time.
In any case, I thank you for your important and interesting contribution to this debate on a subject that is crucial for the European Union, namely this strategy relating to what we call 'employment and growth', the 2020 strategy.
I am quite sure that not only Ms Van Brempt but also at least 300 other colleagues are listening in their rooms, because there is the opportunity to listen to the debate there.
This is a very important discussion for all of us.
Particular attention was focused, among the topics discussed, on the 'Europe 2020' economic strategy, as well as on the preparation for the international climate change negotiations.
I think that we are all affected by the problems in the euro area, as the euro's stability is of paramount importance to the whole of the European Union.
The European Council will play a more important role in coordinating at national and European level instruments intended to boost Member States' economic performance.
Against this background, solutions relating only to budgetary problems are inadequate, as these problems are closely linked to economic problems.
Realistic objectives must be set not only in this area, but also when it comes to setting climate change targets.
The Spring European Council summit has been so dominated by Greece's economic problems that, if conclusions had not been documented in writing after the meeting, many of us would not have even known that the Europe 2020 strategy and many other topics were discussed as well.
Without being cynical, we can say that this whole global crisis during the last two years has produced one cloud with a silver lining at European Community level: a strategy and future vision which will avert any huge economic slump in the future, set out a new direction for the EU27's development and, by implication, make Europe more competitive.
However, it is vital that the Spring Council's noble conclusions on the Europe 2020 strategy go beyond good intentions.
However, they respond in different measures to the guidelines set out by the European Union's Council.
I welcome the fact that at the most recent meeting of the European Council a compromise was outlined regarding the European Union's economic programme covering the period to 2020 and on providing aid to Greece.
The economic growth set as a target in the strategy is at the same time a prerequisite for emerging from the labour market and social crisis.
Abuses are damaging in particular to those actors who are making true efforts to mitigate environmental damage.
With a view to all these goals, it would be useful to strengthen the EU's supervisory procedures as well.
The conclusions from the European Council meeting which took place on 25 and 26 March 2010 certainly highlight the major ambitions which Member States have for the forthcoming period up until 2020.
On the other hand, I would like to condemn the postponement of setting quantifiable targets for reducing the school dropout level and increasing the number of university graduates, as well as for reducing social exclusion, all the more so as 2010 is actually the European year dedicated to this issue.
In view of processes which are taking place in Europe, such as the demographic decline in the indigenous population and the economic crisis, a well-thought-out strategic action plan has my full support.
I am counting on a good information campaign among the citizens of Member States, to help them use the powers conferred on them by the Treaty of Lisbon and influence first the planning, and later the realisation, of the strategy by involvement at regional and lower levels and in smaller local communities.
I also think this should be followed by the speedy development of mechanisms for putting these priorities into practice and the establishment of a timetable for this.
I am counting on good and comprehensive cooperation in this area.
I would like to stress that the Europe 2020 strategy must take account of the huge differences in the level of development and in the potential of different regions.
The European Union needs a new, medium-term strategic vision for growth and development, combined with the prudent collection and redistribution of financial resources.
Increasing employment, boosting competitiveness and productivity, along with exceptionally productive investments in research and innovation are the main measures for halting the decline and kick-starting sustainable growth, which are key objectives in the Europe 2020 strategy.
I would like to welcome the fact that the text detailing the European Council's final conclusions referred to the particularly important role played by the cohesion policy and common agricultural policy in ensuring the EU's competitiveness.
It is not only more than 12 million European farmers but consumers as well who are expecting specific results after the CAP has been reformed, which will have a positive impact on their standard of living and the quality of food being eaten, on the one hand, and on the competitiveness of Europe's agriculture and food industry, on the other hand.
The European Union is duty-bound to take into account the hopes which its citizens have pinned on the future CAP when implementing its future policies.
The EU 2020 strategy must be based on expanded coordination of economic and environmental policies in order to generate eco-efficient economic growth and higher employment.
The 2020 strategy which has been adopted by the European Council is not acceptable to me as a socialist.
According to a report of the European Commission published in 2008, one in five (19%) Poles lives below the poverty line, with 26% of children living in poverty (the highest level in the Union).
We need a long-term strategy for fighting poverty as an integral part of EU policy.
In accordance with the proposals of my political group, the strategy should be assisted by reform of the common agricultural policy.
It is essential to ensure food security to all EU citizens in all of its aspects (physical and economic access to food which meets high health and quality standards).
The 2020 strategy will be a valuable document for EU citizens only on condition that social objectives are included.
On 25 and 26 March decisions were made in the European Council on issues that will have a considerable impact on the lives of thousands of Europeans, especially those who share the euro.
Even at a time of economic crisis, which is becoming much more serious in countries such as Greece, the Heads of State or Government of the euro area have reached agreement regarding financial assistance for that country.
These Member States have demonstrated solidarity with Greece and determination to reinforce the stability of the currency by undertaking to provide bilateral loans in the event that the country is unable to resolve the problems with its public finances by other means, specifically intervention by the International Monetary Fund.
In addition, over the next 10 years the new Europe 2020 strategy will have to capitalise on the previous Lisbon Strategy, showing the public tangible results especially as regards the promotion of employment without further putting off structural reforms.
Territorial cohesion must be an integral part of this strategy, along with other key issues such as a continued commitment to knowledge and innovation, sustainable economic progress and social inclusion.
The European Union has formalised its support for this strategy and the Member States' commitment to it must be absolute.
I welcome that during the European Council meeting held on 25 and 26 March the EU made a firm commitment for the first time to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, while also reaffirming its commitment to cut polluting emissions by 20%, compared with the 1990 level.
The fall in the number of employees and companies has a powerful impact on the budgets allocated for public expenditure, as well as on European citizens' quality of life.
The European Union must invest in education, research and in an ambitious, sustainable industrial policy, enabling it to remain competitive globally.
I call on the Commission to table a legislative initiative for setting up a European fund for developing the transport infrastructure.
Ladies and gentlemen, the last European summit was an attempt to develop a new strategy for the euro area and for coming out of the economic crisis.
European leaders were agreed that it is necessary to strengthen economic policy in Europe by defining future common guidelines and developing an early-warning system for Member States facing economic difficulties.
The consequences of the world financial crisis are a good opportunity for Europe to strengthen its internal integration and cooperation.
However, we need to be careful that this attempt to develop another economic strategy for Europe does not end up like the Lisbon Strategy, which was supposed to transform Europe into the most dynamic knowledge-based economy, but was a spectacular failure.
in writing. - (HU) In half a year, the European Union has moved from a hopeful situation to almost complete disunity.
I am convinced that the Member States that are in difficult situations do not need cynical advice.
Our reaction to the crisis in Greece must be a clear signal to other Member States which are struggling with similar problems that robust internal reforms are the route they must take to lift themselves out of the crisis.
The conclusions of the European Council meeting on 25-26 March 2010 contain a decision which talks about an intention to strengthen the coordination of Member States' economic policy by better use of the instruments provided for in Article 121 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
