One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. (RO) On 8 February 2010, Romania accepted the invitation extended by the President of the United States to participate in the development of the US anti-missile defence system.
In my question to the Commission on 17 February 2010, I proposed that a European Monetary Fund be set up.
Castro has ended up like Franco and all other enemies of freedom who become entrenched in power.
Until recently in France and throughout Europe today, coastal areas and flood zones are being developed in spite of and in violation of current European, and indeed national, legislation.
The EU 2020 strategy is a unique opportunity to redefine our relationship with the environment. (The President cut off the speaker) (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, important Czech media reported last week that the German transport police have introduced much stricter checks for Czech drivers on the German side of the border.
They are fully-fledged, equal and sovereign citizens of a Member State of the European Union and they must be treated as such.
Its objective is to establish 22 May as the annual European Obesity Day, raise awareness of the need for action at European level and ensure that the voices of overweight and obese patients are heard.
Each Member State should face the challenge and provide efficient support to this population group.
If no action is taken, there will be an estimated 150 million obese adults - 20% of the population - and 15 million obese children and adolescents - 10% of the population - in the region by 2020.
Most of the 85 million people living in poverty within the European Union are women.
I hope the Portuguese authorities will assess the amount of damage as soon as possible and also that no formal administrative obstacles will be placed in the way of providing financial assistance from the European Union Solidarity Fund.
This saw ethnic cleansing carried out also in the name of Bandera.
Romania, too, is part of this trend, as a result of the economic crisis which has hit the business sectors in which men are predominantly employed.
This legislative package must also feature in the European Union's 2020 strategy. (DE) Mr President, recent events in Turkey have once again confirmed that there are still insufficient guarantees for the rights of trade unions as well as workers.
It is to be feared that the Loya Jirga will modify the Constitution and that the articles protecting women's rights will disappear; in particular, Article 22 of Chapter 2.
Today, 8 March 2010, I solemnly request that the European Union act as guarantor of the future of Afghanistan's women, as the re-emergence of the most femicidal regime in history cannot be countenanced. (MT) The diplomatic incident between Switzerland and Libya has escalated and is having very serious consequences for many European Union citizens who want to travel to Libya but who are being denied entry.
I therefore appeal to the European Union to take all possible measures to solve this issue as soon as possible. (ES) Mr President, the government of Spain has asked the government of Venezuela for an explanation following a court ruling referring to alleged cooperation between the government of Venezuela and ETA.
There is obviously pressure from the property lobby, but it is also true that a few months ago, President Sarkozy was calling for construction in flood zones to be permitted.
It is the Union that is under attack and it should respond in solidarity; the same solidarity that was valuable for Eastern Europe and that was valuable for Germany in its reunification.
The Commission declared 2010 European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
Formentera is one of the Balearic Islands.
By way of example, I could mention the Hotel Rocabella, which was the first hotel on the island, or the bar and restaurant known as the Blue Bar, which is internationally renowned and has helped to promote the island abroad.
Mr President, you are staying so much in line that I think that, for these one-minute speeches, at least today on International Women's Day, Parliament should have made a gesture of generosity to women. (RO) I would like to draw your attention today to a number of cases of discrimination against Romanians in Europe which, unfortunately, are steadily on the increase lately.
However, branding a whole nation like this is unacceptable.
The 2020 strategy has outlined very clearly that no country can go it alone, and certainly countries along the Atlantic seaboard such as Ireland, Great Britain, France, Portugal and Spain can make an awful lot of progress in many areas, particularly offshore energy, marine research, fishing, maritime and naval construction, ports and biodiversity.
I would call on the Spanish Presidency to make this a priority in the coming months. (GA) If they succeed in doing that, they will have accomplished something great by the time the term of their Presidency is over. (PT) In the last three months, six very serious sea accidents have occurred in Portugal, in which 13 fishermen have lost their lives.
The fishing communities of Castelo de Neive, Matosinhos, Setúbal, Areosa, Peniche and Caminha are in mourning; I would like to join with them with my speech here today.
Kosovo has been recognised as an independent state, so far, by 65 countries of the world, including 24 out of 28 NATO countries and 22 out of 27 EU countries.
The European Union's embrace of global capitalism is an embrace that will smother us all.
I would like to give the floor to all of you but, unfortunately, we do not have the time. (HU) Mr President, I have the same complaint.
Mr Tőkés, I personally gave you the floor on at least one occasion.
