Report: Zver - Youth on the Move: - a framework for improving Europe's education and training systems - Report: Honeyball - Early years learning - Report: Schaake - Cultural dimensions of EU external actions - Report: Sanchez-Schmid - Unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries - Sarajevo as a European Capital of Culture in 2014 (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Zver, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on Youth on the Move - a framework for improving Europe's education and training systems, the report by Mrs Honeyball, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on Early Years Learning in the European Union, the report by Mrs Schaake, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions, the report by Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries, and the oral question to the Commission on Sarajevo as a European Capital of Culture in 2014 by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education - B7-0215/2011).
Mr President, first of all, may I say that, during the sitting this morning, we will see real evidence of the work of our Committee on Culture, Education and Young People.
At this point, I would like to thank my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to prepare this report and I would also like to thank the European Commission, which has prepared this report and which has included the problems faced by young people amongst the fundamental priorities of the EU's 10-year development plan.
When drawing up this report, I worked with many stakeholders, especially representatives of young people, both from Member States and the rest of Europe, for example, with the European Youth Forum.
I also worked with the Committee on the Regions and the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs, so the report is a product of many exchanges of opinion during the period of its preparation.
I would like to point out that, according to various studies, young people who avail themselves of the opportunity to study or work abroad perform better in school, they are more successful and more competitive in terms of job hunting, and, moreover, in terms of their integration into society.
However, politics alone cannot guarantee good schools, good education or good jobs for young people.
Therefore, vocational education and training remains one of the priorities of our policy, as well as of the policies of Member States.
European universities will become more competitive when they pay even greater attention to the needs of the market, the economy, and when they also manage to find additional sources of funding.
The European countries, Member States of the European Union, are underinvesting in students, and this is quite a big problem.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am very pleased indeed to have the opportunity to present my report on early years learning in the European Union, which is an extremely important aspect of education that we have not really given much attention to before now.
I would particularly like to thank Commissioner Vassiliou and her cabinet with whom we have worked very closely on this, and also the Hungarian Presidency, which had early years learning as one of its priorities.
I would also like to thank all the shadows from the other political groups.
The research which has been done, most of which I am afraid is not within the EU, shows that, if you give children support and what they need when they are young, it helps them in later life: it cuts down on crime, improves health and cuts down on unemployment, therefore benefiting all of us.
So we have everything to do on this and it is all beneficial.
Each Member State does it differently, because early years has grown up within their own systems.
In order to do that, we have, of course, started with the child.
We have drawn on research from around the world, and my report looks at the following issues: engagement with parents, which is very important for early years for young children; staff and the quality of services and qualifications required; and integrating early years services with the rest of the education systems in Member States.
So we have covered these key areas, and these are what we should be focusing on in future.
Staff qualifications are extremely important and they are very lacking in this area.
We also need to look at access, so that all of those who need early years education services can get hold of them.
rapporteur. - Mr President, before highlighting a few elements of this elaborate report on the role of culture in the EU's external actions, I want to sincerely thank my colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Education for their constructive collaboration and for unanimously adopting our joint work in the committee vote.
Of course, civil society and other stakeholders have also provided very helpful input.
These European values, such as respect for human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms, are also represented by our cultural products.
Cultural identity, values and the EU's position on the global stage are intertwined.
The EU has a number of best practices from the Member States, as well as from different cultural institutions such as the Alliance française and the British Council.
Another aspect that is very prominent in our 21st century is the ever-larger role played by the new technologies, both in culture and in international relations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following on from Mrs Schaake, I would like to begin with a few words about the important report that she has drawn up.
Cultural diplomacy has an important role to play when it comes to building successful relations with third countries and, in many countries, there is a network of national institutes for culture, EUNIC, that we can make use of.
This flagship initiative is designed to encourage actors in the field of training and education to give more attention to these policy areas.
We need to unlock the potential of our young people with the aid of our successful programmes.
When it comes to lifelong learning, our existing Comenius, Erasmus, Leonardo and Grundtvig programmes have given many people wonderful opportunities to discover Europe in its diversity, gain experience for themselves and improve their language skills.
Moreover, in this context, the significance of the Youth in Action programme and of the European Voluntary Service should not be underestimated.
Today's debate must also send a signal to the Commission that we must continue these popularly well-received programmes and opportunities in the next generation of education and youth programmes, too, and that they must be well funded in keeping with their significance.
Sarajevo has a special place in European history and culture.
By naming the city a European Capital of Culture in 2014, we could send an important signal for the multi-ethnic character of the city and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which could also give the political class in that country cause to rethink their ideas.
During the Bosnian war, between 1992 and 1996, Sarajevo suffered the longest siege of a capital city in modern warfare history.
The cellist, Vedran Smajovic, clad in black, was playing Tomaso Albinoni's Adagio.
For 22 days, he played in various locations in the ruins of Sarajevo.
We all know well that, if we adopt our proposal today, we will be asking for a derogation from the decision of the European Parliament and the Council.
Particularly at this point, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the city of Sarajevo need a sign that all is not lost and that Europe also supports their efforts. (Applause) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our debate this morning, the issue is not simply about an economic model or a legal system.
With the Internet and digital media, what do we want Europe to be moving towards?
The European Union has a cultural heritage and cultural assets, as well as an extremely dynamic and lively film industry.
The MEDIA programme is celebrating 20 years at the Cannes Festival this year and is supporting 20 of the competing films as well as festivals, performing arts and large exhibitions, which are taking place throughout the year and across Europe.
In 2003, this sector generated a turnover of EUR 654 billion.
In 2008, it already represented EUR 860 billion, 14 million jobs and nearly 7% of GDP.
The dual nature of these industries, which are, at the same time, economic and cultural, makes them important levers for sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth for Europe - in short, the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
On the one hand, Europe must encourage creative talents from a very young age, raise young people's awareness of culture, and develop partnerships between universities and companies.
The third vital component of our strategy should be the protection of creativeness.
The European Union must work to introduce a European status so that they can enjoy fair working conditions and social protection.
As the report makes clear, the key objective of Youth on the Move is to help young people in Europe to gain the skills and experience they need to succeed in today's increasingly internationalised knowledge-based economy.
This is why the Commission has launched actions to support Member States in improving the quality and relevance of education and training from early childhood through to higher education.
This is why we have set out measures to strengthen further the mobility opportunities available to young people and it is why my Commission colleague László Andor and I have placed so much emphasis on improving conditions for young people moving into the labour market.
I want to take this opportunity to respond directly to two points in the report.
Secondly, in the light of the call in the report for steps to remove barriers to mobility, I would highlight the fact that a Council recommendation designed to encourage Member States to do precisely this is due to be adopted by the Council in the coming days.
Besides the number of places available, we must also address the question of quality at European and national level.
I am thinking, for example, of staffing and staff quality, the integration of care and education, and active engagement with parents, who are the first educators of their children.
We also welcome the strong emphasis on the need to identify and exchange good practices at European level.
Turning to the Schaake report on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions, I congratulate Ms Schaake for this excellent own-initiative document.
It rightly underlines the role of culture not only as a bridge between peoples but also as a fundamental element in promoting our values in the world.
At the same time, it calls for a more strategic approach to cultural cooperation between the EU and third countries.
The creation of such postings would allow increased coordination both between the present cultural attachés of Member States' embassies and between those national institutes of culture with a local presence, particularly via the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNICs) network.
I had the pleasure of meeting EUNICs in both China and Brazil recently and I heard from them how much they need cooperation and coordination in order to promote our culture in the countries where they serve.
I now come to the Sanchez-Schmid report on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries.
I would like to thank Parliament and, in particular, Ms Sanchez-Schmid, for this very good report.
As you rightly say in the report, these industries have a vital contribution to make to the Europe 2020 strategy and must be given a more prominent place in the EU for the years to come.
If we want these industries to develop fully, we have to make progress on various fronts: skills adaptation and capacity building, access to funding, improving the business environment, support for cross-border circulation and new distribution models, maximising these industries' potential for regional and local development, promoting their spillover effects in terms of innovation, and promoting a creative Europe on the world stage.
This conclusion also emerges from the consultation launched by our Green Paper, which prompted reactions from 350 public authorities, the general public, civil society bodies and companies active in the field of culture across Europe.
I am pleased to see that our Green Paper has sparked, in Europe and within the European institutions, a very rich debate on the right environment to put in place to meet the specific needs of creating entrepreneurship in order to seize the new opportunities offered by globalisation, digitisation and cultural diversity.
I am firmly convinced that our joint efforts will help to create a better environment in which these vital industries can play an important role in the discussions on EU funding mechanisms post-2013 and implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Finally, I am very happy to see Parliament's enthusiasm - and, in particular, that of my good friend Doris Pack - for the European capitals of culture and Sarajevo's interest in holding the title.
The Commission, of course, shares your view of the historic and cultural importance of Sarajevo.
The city symbolises some of the darkest episodes in recent European history but also carries our hopes for a better future.
Let me say a few words about the rules governing the European capitals of culture.
In 2006, Parliament and the Council adopted the decision on which the initiative is based.
The decision states that the initiative is open exclusively to the 27 Member States of the European Union.
As an integral part of the decision, a chronological list indicates, for every year until 2019, the two Member States which are entitled to hold the title.
I believe it would be particularly difficult to justify an exception so soon after we have all agreed the rules of the initiative.
Parliament and the Council adopted the current decision less than five years ago.
As part of our preparatory work, the Commission is exploring the idea of candidate countries joining the initiative after 2019.
While the capitals of culture action is not available, the EU can offer other types of support for Sarajevo, in 2014 and beyond, through our cultural programme.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - Mr President, I have abandoned my prepared text because I have to say something about the proposal to have EU cultural attachés.
As rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to thank everyone who worked on this report.
In the committee, all the groups pursued the unanimous objective of making education and training possible for every young person in Europe and supporting their entry into a career, while no young person should fall by the wayside.
In some cases, I was unable to support the positions taken in the report.
In the view of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, one important aspect is the transition from school to career.
This transition must take place without time spent waiting around.
We also found it important that young people's entry into their careers should not be associated with social dumping and that it must not take place under conditions of dumping.
They are important and they are necessary, but their abuse must be avoided and forbidden.
I will close with a request of Parliament and the Commission to ensure that the Youth in Action programme does not suffer financial cuts or even abolition in favour of the Youth on the Move programme.
The work of youth associations is important for social engagement and helps young people progress, both in terms of substance and personally.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I wish to highlight the important role that culture and creativity play in the European economy and in reaching the targets of the Europe 2020 strategy, for a society based on knowledge and innovation, as well as the potential new jobs they represent.
In this report, particular attention is paid to the working conditions in the sector, in particular, irregular income and insecure working relations, which call for an in-depth debate in order to take account of specific aspects, for instance, by fighting against discrimination in terms of remuneration, and to improve the match between job held and level of qualification.
We want to make it easier for young people and the most vulnerable to access culture and creative content, and we want to encourage mobility and promote cultural diversity as well as the use and spread of free software and open standards.
Today, mobility essentially concerns students, but it should be encouraged for everyone, young workers and young people who are doing vocational training.
It would be regrettable to categorise young Europeans as either an educated elite, multilingual and confident in the future, or as young people left behind on the grounds that they do not have a Masters degree or because they are only doing manual work.
I am especially delighted that in this text, we called for abolition of the discriminations linked to age, regarding access to the social protection scheme.
I am asking for it here and, of course, I think that the minimum income scheme is a key element in guaranteeing young people's autonomy.
Commissioner, where necessary, that answer can and must also come from the cultural sector.
We must definitely invest a lot more in the creation of a common European public space.
Education, as has already been pointed out in this debate, could make a very important, if not crucial, contribution to that end.
We firmly believe that we can make much better use of the cooperation between entrepreneurs in the cultural sector, on the one hand, and academia, both higher education - universities and higher education colleges - and secondary education, on the other, and that they offer a lot more opportunities than we are currently utilising.
Furthermore, entrepreneurs, managers of small and medium-sized enterprises in the creative sector, need better access to financing opportunities, because we currently have too little know-how and too little access to bank finance.
This report puts forward very specific proposals in that respect and, Commissioner, we are counting on both the Commission and the competent national and regional authorities to pick up the gauntlet and start implementing this proposal.
Mr President, the position of the cultural and creative industry forms part of the European strategy for innovation and the EU 2020 strategy, and is closely connected with measures aimed at the more effective use of monuments, museums and gallery collections, or urban and rural units in tourism and related activities.
The digitisation of historical and cultural content represents the main opportunity in this regard.
Digitisation should increase the access of the general public to materials that are essential for study, cognition and education, and strengthening cultural identity.
Investment in these areas brings an almost guaranteed return, not only in the area of tourism, which is surely a significant component of many regional economies, but also in foreign policy.
It pays to develop awareness of the deep cultural traditions of European countries and, at the same time, to promote individual villages, towns, regions, Member States and the EU itself in a global context.
In the new programming period after 2013, we should therefore continue the funding of cultural projects from the European structural funds, strengthen the twinning programme for cooperation between local authorities and retain the independence of the community programme for projects in this area with the title of 'Culture'.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, for her excellent work on this report.
I am very pleased and very proud of the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs submitted our opinion on which we were in total agreement and I find it gratifying that the majority of our views are included in your report.
We are at a point in time when digital technology and the Internet are creating both huge opportunities and enormous challenges for Europe's cultural and creative sectors.
Europe's cultural practitioners, technical innovators and, above all, Europe's citizens deserve a well-functioning internal market, where creative content can flow freely and generously across our borders and where cultural practitioners are secure in the knowledge that they will receive remuneration for their work.
The freedom of speech must be available for everyone.
I believe this matter should be taken into consideration at least by Parliament's Bureau, because we cannot allow some of the things we have heard here today to be said on behalf of committees representing so many members of Parliament. (Applause) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), all the rapporteurs who presented reports this morning, as I believe that these reports allow us to lay the foundations for the Europe of the future.
This morning, we are working on future generations, from children to our young people, whom we must guide into the world of work by means of the important flagship initiative entitled Youth on the Move.
We would like culture to play a part in the external actions of the European Union, and not only, Lord Dartmouth and Mr Kuhn, through well paid officials, but rather by constructing a better process for peace, stability and understanding between different cultures.
Today, though, we must also seek to strengthen our programmes for culture, education and young people.
We need to invest in all these programmes but, above all, we need to believe in them.
Education is one of the key issues in a time of crisis, and we must not forget that educated young people are our future.
I welcome the Commission's Youth on the Move initiative and the fact that it has not forgotten about young people.
Investing in education is the solution to the perennial problems of the EU, even in a time of belt-tightening.
As you all know, however, I was very critical of the original Commission initiative, and I would therefore like to emphasise several points which we have managed to include in this report.
This is surely one of the ways in which we can achieve the objectives we have set in our Europe 2020 strategy.
I would definitely like to emphasise equal opportunities for all, not only in terms of gender equality, but also for disabled or otherwise disadvantaged people.
It is surely important to recognise informal education as another very important means for improving skills which young people can use in their future lives.
The dialogue between Member States and between regions is also very important, and I am delighted that we have managed to include a number of comments from the Committee of the Regions as well as other organisations, such as the European Youth Forum, for example.
There are so many of these that I could carry on speaking not just for two minutes but for 10 minutes, but I would like to end with one sentence.
I would also be delighted to support - as one of the original authors - the initiative on Sarajevo, as it is very important for us to show the people of this region that the EU is here for them.
It is something of a challenge to bundle all these reports together and give evaluations of them, but perhaps I can express a few views on them.
I believe that it could lead to many success stories being documented in European history and on the subject of youth in the future.
It is also very important to consider what Mrs Honeyball says in her report on early childhood education and care (ECEC).
Obviously, the home has a crucial role here, but, as the report points out so well, it is also vital to ensure that those working in the ECEC field have a role to play and that there is a process of mediation, something which children and young people particularly need today.
That is very important.
There are many unfortunate examples of situations where ignorance of cultural backgrounds and the cultural context has led to failures in foreign policy, and that is why it is very important to make culture an integral part of the European External Action Service.
Culture is the basis of everything, the basis of the future for the European Union as a whole, and that is why it is important to ensure that it is acknowledged, not just in the light of GDP, but as a value in itself, both for people and societies, and, ultimately, for the entire European Union.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, in recent years, academic and political focus on culture and education has increased dramatically, with analysis consistently highlighting these areas to be crucial not only in encouraging economic growth and social cohesion, but also in facilitating mobility for young people across Europe.
Unfortunately, in the current economic climate, with many Member States adopting austerity measures and budget reductions necessary to reduce deficits, these areas can often appear neglected and I wish this were not the case.
Investment in education and culture helps Member States to compete globally, equipping our young people for the challenges of tomorrow, and encourages creativity, innovation and mutual understanding.
However, it is precisely in these areas where the Member States, rather than the EU as a whole, can act, and where they know how best to respond to the educational challenges they face.
In terms of culture, the EU can assist Member States in getting the best out of their policy priorities through exchanges of best practice and highlighting areas of importance, such as early years learning, the reduction of early school leaving and the promotion of vocational training.
Another key to helping our young people secure opportunities is to allow flexibility in labour markets so that people can learn on the job.
It goes without saying that, the more we educate our young people across Europe, the more the future begins to look brighter in a challenging global environment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur of the Youth on the Move report, and in view of the various amendments that have been tabled to the reports on the cultural and creative industries and on early years learning, I should like to share the following thought.
The economic crisis is being particularly harsh on young people.
We need young people to take an active part in the economy.
We need young people to develop their full potential because they, too, have an essential role to play if we are to emerge from the crisis.
In the case of the creative industries, I believe that it is very clear that Europe has probably the highest concentration of potential for the creative industries.
In other words, in some peripheral regions of Europe, there is talent, there is history, and there are cities that could play a major role in relaunching the European economy, but they cannot get there without aid, whether at Union level or at Member State level.
As regards external action policy, and since I am already almost out of time, I should like to say that the European Union has a unique opportunity to develop a completely different type of foreign policy from those of the Member States.
Europe could, instead, position itself very well to use culture in external action as a two-way street, whereby we teach but also learn, and whereby we maintain fruitful dialogue with other great regional blocs such as Mercosur or the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
That is how best to benefit the rest of the world with the example of European democracy, but it also benefits the European Union, because we will be able to learn from others.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer my contribution by stating the need for a new methodological approach, particularly in the heritage and cultural heritage sector, linked to the intelligent use of new technology.
An awareness of the massive potential for improvement that new technologies can offer us, both in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, necessarily involves abandoning the ways we worked in the past.
I believe especially in the need to train new people and in professional, young and highly qualified individuals, who are able to rise to the challenges posed by the new global market. (BG) Mr President, I will restrict what I have to say to the 'Youth on the Move' report.
Firstly, with regard to points 24 and 25 in the report concerning children staying at school and increasing their attendance at school, I would like to ask the following question.
I am still waiting for this reply, but I am taking this opportunity to mention this problem which I have been raising for a long time.
I wonder whether it is the parents, who are exploiting their children, or the children, who are losing, as a result, any opportunity to become integrated because they do not have any education, although, as you know, economic integration through work and resources provides a basis for any other integration.
Regarding point 27 of the report, this point again makes a very precise reference to a real problem.
A leading university lecturer recently shared his view with me that, in actual fact, Bulgarian universities are not aware that there is also an Erasmus programme for teachers.
Finally, on the subject of youth unemployment, which is mentioned under letters F and G of the report, this is also a significant problem.
The problem to which I am referring is that when young people apply for a job, they already need to have had a traineeship.
For that matter, one measure which can be taken in the public sector in particular is to impose strict rules for people to retire who have reached retirement age so as to free up jobs for young people. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, we have to thank Mrs Sanchez-Schmid for the report.
This is an important task, because better industry terms would allow the EU to become a global market leader in this area.
Cultural and creative industries are already important motivators and influencers of the economy, even though their situation is not always favourable.
At the same time, it may promote a certain degree of opportunity balance amongst Member States, allowing us to experience the presence of an industry with five million workers, as well as the growth of their numbers in every Member State.
In this area, we intend to assign an important role to small and medium-sized enterprises as well.
Central Europe has a considerable number of bright citizens with a desire to create.
We must find solutions that make artistic creation attractive within the European Union and, at the same time, secure a playing field in international competition.
In summary, it is of vital importance that we concern ourselves with cultural and creative industries, which is why we must create as soon as possible - for artists and creative minds alike - adequate conditions that take into consideration unique characteristics, in the areas of mobility, intellectual property rights and social protection. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through its report on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions, Parliament clarifies its aspiration to also put our own stamps on this developing policy field.
The fact - and I want to put this carefully - that I do not see a representative of the External Action Service here today shows how necessary this report is.
The report quite rightly urges that, in future, cultural aspects should play a more significant role in external policy, into which they should be more systematically incorporated.
For my group, it was important to call for a coherent strategy that more effectively coordinates existing EU external policy programmes with cultural components, thereby taking account of cultural diversity in the EU.
Mrs Pack has already made reference to this, saying that the existing structures in the Member States and between them, such as the EUNIC network of national institutes for culture, must be incorporated and that civil society must be seen as part of European external cultural policy.
The EU's motto of 'United in diversity' should also come to bear on the image that the Union projects to the outside world.
It is our cultural values that characterise our European Community.
I feel sure that we can achieve much more in this way, including in the debate about human rights and democracy, than through many cases of sabre-rattling, sometimes with absolutely nothing to back it up, in this House. (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a fight, which is also reflected in the debate here today - a fight between the forces in Europe that want to weaken the European project and those of us who - in the midst of the crisis that we find ourselves in right now - want us to reef the sails and actually strengthen the European project.
As time will not allow me to go into too much detail, I will just concentrate on two aspects.
I believe that in this time of crisis, it is necessary for us to really focus, both politically and financially, on actually implementing and supporting this mobility for young people.
This is a small but tangible detail that it is important to promote so that young people do not experience problems in this regard.
Secondly, I would like to highlight what we are referring to as the Mobility Scoreboard, in which we indicate the barriers to mobility in the Member States.
In specific terms, this is where we need to work to strengthen the opportunities for young people and, in so doing, invest in our young people.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and to wish the Commissioner luck with the huge task - as I know - of making the other Commissioners in the Commission College aware of the importance of culture and young people. (PL) Mr President, I would like to focus my attention on the cultural dimensions of external actions and the report drafted by Mrs Schaake.
I would like to say that in several aspects, the report is worthy of support and congratulations.
In paragraph 17, it condemns totalitarian regimes which use censorship.
It encourages the involvement of civil society in paragraph 39, and stresses the importance of democratic freedoms and fundamental human rights.
By the way, during the work of the Committee on Culture and Education, we were able to remove from the report the proposal to appoint a special EU ambassador solely for cultural affairs.
Furthermore, I would like to come back to a point that has not been expanded on in these reports, concerning the mobility of artists and of professionals in the cultural sector.
Secondly, the removal - as has already been said - of the regulatory and administrative barriers which impede the free movement, within the Schengen area, of those in the cultural sector, in particular, for third-country nationals, by introducing, for instance, common accelerated procedures within the European Union for short and long-term visas, as well as a single procedure for obtaining work permits in the Union.
Finally, in the context of a rise in power of a largely American global mainstream as regards cultural leisure, it is urgent to remind the European Union and Member States of the importance of providing themselves with tools enabling them to defend and promote the diversity of European cultures and of third countries.
Yet they are vital for our future, the future of Europe, the future of our youth.
The 'Youth on the Move' report submitted to us is a step in the right direction on certain points and conveys a number of messages to the Commission and to Member States.
Soon, we will have the opportunity to work on the issues involved in the Bologna process and I welcome that.
I would like to add a few words to thank Mrs Honeyball for her report and the work we have been able to do on the issues around childcare.
Finally, I would like to offer my resolute support to Mrs Pack for choosing Sarajevo as European capital of culture. (LT) Mr President, I wanted to say a few words about the Youth on the Move initiative.
This initiative has a very fine objective - to increase the education and training of youth through mobility and ease the transition of young people from education into the labour market.
This is particularly important today for young people who are one of the social groups hit hardest by the global financial crisis.
It is vital for young people to be able to develop the competences, skills and knowledge that will allow them to actively contribute to the growth and sustainable future of the European Union over the coming years.
It is also important to ensure that Europe's young people are not deprived of the opportunity to develop themselves and to contribute to the prosperity of the European Union.
Therefore, a country such as Lithuania, which faces a tough economic situation, risks losing, for some time, educated people, who are the basis for the country's growth, and not just in an economic sense.
True, this is our own internal problem and we will solve it ourselves.
This mobility will guarantee continued health and prosperity for Europe.
In conclusion, mobility is a horizontal issue, and I therefore urge my colleagues, on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, and also on other committees, not to lose sight of the mobility dimension in their work in all areas. (IT) Mr President, in an ageing Europe that is struggling to find answers to the global challenges of the future, the European Union and its Member States must seize this strong stimulus from Parliament to demonstrate that they can be more courageous, investing in future generations, in education and in culture.
With these four reports and the Sarajevo proposal, Parliament calls for these issues to be placed at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy.
In particular, the economic advantages, as well as those in employment and innovation, are highlighted by the report on cultural and creative industries, which already account for almost 3% of Europe's gross product and employ 5 million people - a figure which rises to 7% if ancillary industries are taken into account.
We also hope that the Commission - and I am sure that Mrs Vassiliou will take action to ensure this happens - will submit a White Paper on cultural and creative industries as soon as possible in order to strengthen this cross-sectoral strategy throughout Europe and the Member States.
Cutting funds for culture and education at times of crisis - as my country is doing, on the grounds that culture is not essential to survival - means failing to invest in the future and in smart, inclusive growth; it means failing to understand that culture is essential for life.
The report states that the European status of artists and of those engaged in creative professions should be officially recognised, and that in cultural industry, small and medium-sized enterprises should be fully recognised as such for the purposes of access to credit and support when starting up, especially for young people under the age of 35.
It also promises to protect jobs, and to introduce specific training and innovative financial instruments, bearing in mind that capital in the creative sector often consists of values that are intangible but nonetheless crucial for innovation in all sectors.
University programmes must be brought closer to the demands of the labour market.
In particular, it is necessary to improve opportunities for young people in vocational education and training to facilitate their mobility in the European Union and allow for apprenticeships abroad, thus expanding their skill set and employability.
In order for this to continue, the most important thing we must now do is to provide the support that our creative industries need to continue to grow.
We must focus on reducing the administrative hurdles that all small businesses face and look at ways to get real added value from the Single Market via cooperation on intellectual property rights, a European patent and realising the full potential of the Digital Agenda and, of course, eliminating inconsistencies in existing EU legislation, such as in the field of VAT.
Our EU budget should be used productively to develop the huge amount of creative energy around us into true wealth-creating businesses, providing sustainable jobs and a prosperous and rich future for our people in Wales and beyond. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, in reality, we are holding a debate this morning about the significance of culture in the various policy areas - in foreign policy, in economic policy, in education policy and in social policy - and we all know that all of us benefit from culture being taken more seriously.
Creative industries are an important part of economic policy.
In my home country, Germany, there are more jobs in the creative sector than in the automotive sector.
That is something we must take note of.
The point I want to make, however, is that, if we want to bolster the creative industries, we have work to do, in particular, on digital development.
On the one hand, therefore, we have a major interest in cultural diversity, bolstering creative people and easy access to creative content online.
Yet, at the same time, we want artists to be fairly paid, something that is not always the case in today's digital world.
We therefore need to amend contract law in order to strengthen the bargaining position of our artists.
We need to develop new social models in order to find a fair balance between easy access for users and proper payment for those who create new content.
It would be of major symbolic value and a major historic success for Europe if Sarajevo were to be a European Capital of Culture for 2014. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the report on Youth on the Move contains some good ideas, like the demand that the crisis must not be used as an excuse to cut education spending.
The rapporteur referred to the fact that universities are underfunded, and therefore called for them to look for more funding from private sources.
Surely the answer to underfunding is not to invite in the private sector with all the distorting effect that has on education, or to impose fees that block access to hundreds of thousands across Europe, but for state investment to provide free well-funded education at all levels.
Furthermore, as a result of the brutal austerity, in many countries, it is virtually impossible for young people to get a decent job after finishing education.
A quarter of young people in Ireland are now unemployed and 1 000 people emigrate every week, so for many Irish families, the very notion of Youth on the Move has a very different meaning.
Naturally, I firmly believe in the richness and diversity of European culture, but I am talking today from a perspective of competitiveness to condemn a piece of nonsense and an absurdity.
First of all, there is a VAT distortion depending on the countries where the activity is based.
Secondly, there is a discrimination in VAT rates which penalises digital goods in relation to physical goods.
I believe that this issue is absolutely connected to youth unemployment, with the very high percentage of unemployment that we have in our Union.
We must provide answers for the future of these young people, who are the future of the European Union.
Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Sarajevo as its capital, belongs to one of the black holes on the European map, and this is due to our history.
The next generation suffers from the wounds of history, and we have an important responsibility as Europeans to look to the future with them and to include them in the European horizon.
I fully support Ms Pack's initiative and I want to ask Parliament to support it and to do everything we can to include Sarajevo as a European cultural capital.
I believe that, if we all want this, it absolutely can be possible, because it would be very disappointing if our ideas and common sense were to be blocked by bureaucracy. (PL) Mr President, the parts of Mrs Schaake's report which speak about the need to increase the mobility of young people from European neighbouring countries are very important.
While, on the one hand, it seems to me that over-involvement of the European Union in cultural activity in the Member States is not necessary, I think, on the other, that in view of what is happening today in Tunisia, but also in view of the events of two months ago in Belarus, it is important that the European Union, with its cultural message and its message about democracy and the rule of law, addresses itself to the young elite of neighbouring countries, and that money is found for youth exchanges, joint courses of study, travel, the establishment of universities and support for teaching programmes.
Such programmes do exist in the Member States - at the Centre for East European Studies in the University of Warsaw in Poland, for example.
This should be seen as an example, and it is to be welcomed that Mrs Schaake is pointing us in this direction today.
I would like to characterise the flagship Youth on the Move initiative, part of the Europe 2020 programme, as an excellent objective for the greatest possible improvement of the entry of young people into the labour market, with two main emphases.
As a result, to a not inconsiderable degree, of the setbacks caused by the economic crisis, but also, and above all, as a result of structural deficiencies in many - almost all - Member States in other areas, the Member States of the EU have completely different prerequisites.
Allow me to cite my own home country as an example: Austria has a school drop-out rate of just 8.7%, as compared to the EU average of around 14%, and it would certainly be worth examining Austria's dual system of vocational training, which is supported by the social partners.
There are considerably higher numbers of qualified academics in other Member States, and we should study their systems.
There is much that we can learn from each other in these areas.
In closing, however, I would just like to offer my sincere thanks to Mrs Pack and to support her when I say that having Sarajevo as a European Capital of Culture is not a derogation, it is a must!
I hope that in the future, the allotted time can be adhered to but, in any case, I wish you great success in your work as a Member among us. (RO) Mr President, there are countries in the European Union which have a national unemployment rate of 20%, but a youth unemployment rate of 40%.
If we are talking about European integration or the future of these programmes and projects which we have in mind here, all these young people must feel European.
All these young people must also find their future within the European Union's borders.
This is why I strongly feel that we ought to talk much more about providing young people with access to jobs and about the future these young people have in the European Union when we mention the 'Youth on the Move' programme.
I believe that the solutions we are providing to these issues are not good enough and that we should focus much greater attention on the way in which Member States implement the projects and programmes which we have in mind here.
I believe that the European Commission's role is to encourage more Member States to implement these programmes properly and meet young people's needs. (SL) Mr President, at a time when cultural differences between nations are leading bureaucrats to close borders - as most recently demonstrated by the Danes - and build high walls, they prefer to leave conflicts to be resolved with arms rather than with understanding and compassion.
The report talks us through the ways in which our common cultural image and the artistic achievements of small nations and Member States of the European Union in contact with the cultures of other nations can raise the standard of our public debate and even ease our diplomats' and strategists' burden in finding solutions to innumerable crises, at home and around us.
By refusing to observe borders, new media and new technologies are opening up immense opportunities in the process.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, let us give Sarajevo a chance! (PL) Mr President, the process of early childhood education is one of the most important duties both of parents and the state.
Therefore, it is unacceptable that in schools for indigenous national minorities, instruction in a language other than the mother tongue should be introduced from the first and second years, something which was recently decided by the Lithuanian Parliament.
The responsibility of parents is also mentioned in the General Declaration of Human Rights - parents have a preferential right to choose the type of education for their children.
There is evidence that children already develop the foundations of responsibility, understanding and social behaviour in their early years.
I go into these factors in greater depth in the report prepared on the contribution made to the fight against juvenile criminality by policies on gender equality and parental responsibility.
They do not have the freedom to choose, however, as society places little if any value on the work of women in the home and in caring for children.
The submitted report contains no proposals for states to place a financial value on the work of mothers in raising and educating children, at least in proportion to the contributions states make to the running of pre-school facilities.
The report as a whole is a step in the right direction, and future social developments will oblige us to pay more attention to this topic. (EL) Mr President, the 'Youth on the Move' initiative focuses on strengthening the mobility of young people, mainly for the purpose of employment.
With conservative trends threatening the unity of the European Union, and we heard some of them this morning, the mobility of young people can be used as an important instrument for strengthening European cohesion.
On the contrary, they should aim to create new standards of social cohesion and collectivity which the humanities and a European system of university classification based on them can develop in the right direction. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, visitors, the cultural diversity of Europe is an important commodity that we need to preserve and even develop in future.
In order to make that possible, we need to face the challenges of the digital age not only in the information and knowledge society, but also, above all, in the cultural and creative sector.
Cultural diversity is not just an ideal; it is also a significant economic factor.
The cultural sector is a growth sector that is developing faster than many other areas in the economy.
The cultural and creative sector is a driver for Europe.
However, we also need to improve the business skills of our creative artists and to give them a sound media grounding in new technologies.
We therefore need to work intensively on the issues of copyright, social security and intellectual property, but also on open access to information and content, in order to ensure the continued development of the creative and cultural sector in the future in a digital environment and in order to enable us to retain cultural diversity and the cultural heritage of Europe as a significant distinguishing feature of the European Union.
These first lines of a simple poem show how great life is, and remind us that we are responsible for the world we are building for our children.
In the report presented, Mrs Honeyball offers a timely reminder that the future of our children is shaped right from the very first years of their life, years in which institutions must take on a key role if our children are to grow up as we wish.
I agree with all the points made by the report: it is important that the Member States and the Union should shoulder responsibility for measures to support children's early learning, but they must claim a role that cannot be solely delegated to parents, or to those who work in the education sector.
Children have the right to receive help and services from Member States and from the Union.
All children must be able to access education, regardless of social background, and we must ensure that this opportunity is also available to the children of asylum seekers, refugees and all those who have permission, even if only temporary, to reside within the Union.
I see it, however, as an important contribution to the debate on common European aims and values in pre-school education.
It seems that pre-school education has a positive effect also on the further education of the child, and that investing in early years learning in the broadest sense of the word is more effective than any later intervention.
It is therefore in our interest to support this type of education, also with a view to achieving, among other things, the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy and increasing the number of inhabitants with a high quality university education, while at the same time reducing the proportion of people who do not complete their studies.
High quality pre-school education can bring us much closer to these objectives, perhaps more than we are willing to admit at the moment. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Honeyball for the work she has done.
Ensuring that all children have access to education and support structures in their earliest childhood must become a right both for parents, especially for mothers, but, above all, for children themselves, because it means that they can lay solid foundations for their education, be supported in their social integration and personal development, and have a better chance of finding a job once they become adults.
Investing in the quality of education, right from the first years of life, represents not only an essential starting point for a child's cognitive, sensory and motor development, but is also a prerequisite for building an inclusive society that offers a wealth of opportunities for future generations.
In addition, the improvement in the quality and number of nursery schools and structures for early childhood - as provided for in the objectives set out in the conclusions of the European Council meeting in Barcelona - allows working parents to balance home life and work.
In 2010, EU countries achieved just one out of five benchmarks set for education, and that does not augur well for Europe 2020.
We want to give outstanding and wide-ranging abilities to all our children, starting from the earliest years until they are in tertiary education.
As for the cultural dimension, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the information that the European External Action Service is going to have ambassadors and cultural attachés in all the countries of the world.
I would like to thank Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, because support for culture means, above all, support for the business connected with culture, but, in particular, it means support for the inner aspect of culture.
This is why cultural undertakings must have administrative support and need a reduction of bureaucracy in administrative systems, but they also need support with raising capital, which may also come from Union funds.
We share this mission together, and this is why, as I close, I would like to ask the Commissioner to relate this serious and important discussion to the Council, which is absent today, so that in the forum of the Council, too, it will be possible to discuss these important tasks for Europe. (SK) Mr President, as the shadow rapporteur in the Committee on Regional Development for the report on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries, I consider it important that the cultural and creative industries have been recognised as an instrument for local and regional development.
It is important for Member States, regions and local authorities to make the best possible use of EU programmes supporting culture and creativity, political cohesion, structural policy and others.
It is therefore also important for private capital and public/private partnerships to be brought into culture and the creative industries, as the rapporteur requests, and to emphasise the importance of sponsorship.
I also want to emphasise the importance of intellectual property rights (IPR), in particular, for actors.
I also want to put on my sporting hat and say that sport is a very important part of culture and education as well.
If we do that, then we can contribute greatly to sport as part of our culture.
In order to recognise this, it would be a strong symbolic gesture to name Sarajevo European Capital of Culture 2014, to reaffirm Europe's message of peace and stability.
There are places where nowadays, we see exactly opposing tendencies: a decrease in the age limit for compulsory education and a reduction in the number of state-funded higher education places.
In this debate about education, I want to reiterate an important point: the need to include in secondary school studies a specific subject covering the history, aims and workings of the European Union.
Fortunately, last year in this House, the Løkkegaard report on journalism and new media, approved in September, supported the introduction of this subject in paragraph 13.
It is an initiative that other regions and countries should follow.
We must give the right support to children and young people.
Foreign language instruction, sports and cultural activities, voluntary work and youth exchanges - these are programmes which should be accessible to children and young people in all regions of the European Union.
In the opinion of Professor Jacek Kochanowicz, a lack of the ability to cooperate is one of the greatest problems for the development of Poland and the European Union - we must change this, too.
Human capital comes from education, and social capital comes from trust between people.
Investing in educational and cultural programmes ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Mr President, first of all, we should look at the context in which we are having this debate.
The irrefutable reality is of a sharp divestment in these areas; a retreat of the state that threatens its social role and has the result of exacerbating inequalities in access to education, to knowledge and to culture.
The 'Youth on the Move' report is one of the most important initiatives included in the EU 2020 strategy for promoting and providing more opportunities for education and training for young people and helping them to make the transition from education to the labour market.
There is a Greek proverb which says that heads make capital, not the other way round, which is why we must identify, highlight and develop the skills and abilities of our young people, which we can do if we ensure that they can find employment in keeping with their qualifications and skills. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, these reports are at best bestrewn with paradoxes and at worst are full of hypocrisy.
However, I believe that we have to go beyond this 'Youth on the Move' programme and, above all, avoid the trap of wanting every young person to go to university.
We need to be relevant to all groups of young people, including those who are the furthest removed from the European Union and especially, of course, apprentices.
It is with this in mind, I believe, that we should urgently introduce a genuine mobility programme for these target groups, in addition to the Leonardo programme.
We must put in the resources because, as many of you have pointed out, youth and education should be the top priority for the Union's future. (PT) Mr President, this is an opportunity for an extraordinary commitment to the social mobility of young people and a decisive commitment to training a generation with an open worldview; a generation with skills that, because it has global vision and thinking, is capable of contributing to its regions' development and to Europe's progress.
This is because, if all young Europeans have the experience of study, of a work placement or of employment in a different country, they will not just acquire more skills, greater independence and better vision, but they will, above all, gain enormous added value from contact with other young Europeans and exchanging experiences with them.
Therefore, allow everyone from Fajã Grande in the Azores, Europe's westernmost point, to participate.
It is therefore very important for Member States to create specific conditions for access to early years learning for children whose families do not, for various reasons, provide them with the sort of material and family support that would enable them to take part in the standard education system without major problems.
Special care for children from the more at-risk groups, however, must be provided in a very sensitive way, in order to avoid stigmatising these children or families, which might increase the risk of their social exclusion.
We must therefore systematically modify and improve the special care mechanisms for these children, so that we can successfully integrate as many children as possible from at-risk groups into our society. (DE) Mr President, the first three years of a child's life are crucial for the development of the brain and for language learning.
The report observes that most immigrant children in the EU are educated without adequate linguistic knowledge.
These changes are meant to create favourable conditions for the proper development of children.
The variety of educational possibilities allows this development to be assisted and stimulated in all areas while making use of the child's own natural potential.
Opening workplace nurseries will make it easier for parents to return to the labour market after a longer break. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, when referring to Youth on the Move, we are talking about money, but first of all we are talking about the future.
Innovation, creativity, employability are topics that are really important for all of us in the European Union.
We cannot accept that one in seven of our young people leaves school without the skills and qualifications that he or she needs in order to find employment and have a fulfilling life.
We have to really give our full attention to our education systems.
Once again, I plead with the Member States and governments not to do that, especially in times of crisis, because this will have very negative repercussions in the future.
Cultural and creative industries are important - as many of you have mentioned - as a motor for development and for job creation.
Regarding the external dimension of culture - culture in our external relations - I think we have a responsibility to do this.
Let me stress that such cultural exchanges with the outside world will be beneficial not only for them, but also for us, because we are enriching our culture, our knowledge, and our values in the world.
The debate has, above all, been a high quality one and it has focused on the following: we want to strengthen and maintain our current mobility programmes which are part of the lifelong learning and Youth on the Move programmes.
The Youth on the Move dossier does not focus very much on the importance of the market; we actually wanted to avoid that question altogether, but we have emphasised in several places that education systems need to adapt to the needs of society and the economy, and that this large gulf, this large gap, should be reduced as much as possible and that young people should be enabled to enter the labour market with as few obstacles as possible.
By way of conclusion, I would briefly like to emphasise the following: let us make use of all this positive energy that we have here in the European Parliament, the temple of European democracy, as well as in the European Commission, and let us do everything to ensure this report does not remain merely a dead letter.
The overwhelming majority of you, with only one or two notable exceptions, were very much in favour of my report on early years learning and the other reports we debated today.
It is not only important for children, for the very young children I have been talking about and the young people that my colleague has been talking about, but it is also important for the future of Europe.
I therefore strongly support what the Commissioner has said, that Member States should now continue to invest in education and should not be using the economic climate to make cuts, because making cuts in education would be the worse possible thing to do.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am coming back to you with some concrete next steps on the report on the role of culture in the EU's external actions that we talked about this morning.
We need an Internet freedom strategy to facilitate free expression, press freedom, access to information and access to cultural and educational content.
The External Action Service should coordinate the work of different Directorates-General and create a Directorate-General for cultural and digital diplomacy.
We ask the Commission to adopt a Green Paper in 2011, followed by a communication on a strategy for cultural cooperation in the EU's external actions.
We also call for capacity-building through the funding of initiatives independent of government, and we want to promote EU cultural activities in the rest of the world on line also.
We also need to protect and promote cultural heritage, such as through the Blue Shield programme, and we need to engage in cultural policy dialogues with third countries.
I think that this debate shows that we need many more discussions on culture in the EU.
We are asking the European Commission to draw up a White Paper, following on from its Green Paper, so as to perform a review leading to a genuine strategy for the creative and cultural industries.
The vote will take place today at noon.
Written statements (Rule 149) The future of the European Union rests on its young people, on their potential and ability to embrace the current EU project and take it to a new dimension of inclusion and cooperation between Member States.
With this in mind, I think that lifelong learning programmes, such as Erasmus or Leonardo da Vinci, must receive more substantial financial support from the authorities in the coming years.
I believe that the mobility programmes aimed at young people will successfully bring about a real change in the attitude of Europe's young people and create a shared vision for them about what Europe stands for, in areas from education, science and research to culture and our common values.
This report sends a clear message: the European Union must incorporate a consistent and coordinated cultural strategy into its foreign policy.
Ever since the 1990s, the European Union has seen an exponential increase in cultural and creative industries (CCIs), in terms of the number of jobs they have created and their contribution to gross domestic product.
The nature of these industries is twofold: from an economic perspective, they help generate jobs and growth, and from a cultural perspective, they facilitate the social integration of citizens.
The Commission's Green Paper officially recognises the economic and social importance of this sector of the economy.
However, whereas some of our international partners are already making extensive use of the many resources offered by CCIs, the European Union has not yet developed a strategy based on cultural activities.
I also believe that the stronger safeguarding of intellectual property rights is an essential condition for protecting cultural diversity in Europe.
Furthermore, I would like to highlight the close link between socio-economic disadvantage and opportunities to educate and teach children from an early age, because families on low incomes are much less likely to use ECEC services.
Consequently, later on, some of these young people are neither employed nor in education or training.
This would promote data collection and benchmarking in all European Union Member States, because data collection is particularly important for observing progress and measuring outcomes.
This measure will lead, particularly with young people, to a strengthening of work habits, to greater competitiveness and to greater motivation in seeking work.
In my opinion, it is no less important to have a permanent link between the requirements of the labour market and professional education, a link that has to be highly flexible in this regard, so that future graduates can be best placed on the labour market, bringing about a gradual reduction in unemployment among young people.
I would like to emphasise my strong support for the 'Youth on the Move' framework, aimed at improving education systems and vocational training in Europe.
I think that this is of paramount importance with a view to developing specific policies supporting youth mobility and facilitating a stable transition for them from the education system to employment.
An important factor which needs to be considered is that young people are one of the social groups hit hard by the global economic crisis.
We have a duty to support young people entering the labour market, both for their sakes and to support the European economy.
We must lay the foundations for concrete policies which will support young people and provide them with greater mobility and opportunities to study abroad.
The role of this mobility is not only to support the economy but, at the same time, to make an extremely important contribution to creating cultural cohesion at European level.
At the same time, in knowing each other's language, generations growing up would develop a much more positive attitude towards each other, allowing them to create relationships with their peers of the same age more easily, which would be decisive with regard to the future of these regions.
Young people are the driving force of any society and its future.
Their education, vocational training, qualifications and integration into the labour market provide the basis for achieving the Europe 2020 objectives aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
This is why I firmly believe that Europe must continue to invest in their development and initiatives like Erasmus, Leonardo and 'Youth on the Move' should be constantly developed further and made popular.
Unfortunately, Europe still has regions and social groups where there are limited conditions for this.
It is also important for education and training programmes to be more closely linked to business needs and to stimulate young people's potential and creativity so as to make them more competitive on the labour market.
The fact that we try to spread our ideals, for example, in the field of human rights, follows simply from a moral imperative.
I would like to congratulate Mr Honeyball on his excellent work, and for having noticed critical items that may not have received sufficient attention in the past.
The work carried out by Mrs Honeyball and, in particular, the adoption of a child-centred approach, will be an excellent reference base in the future.
The draft report 'draws attention to the general importance of studies before entering school, with particular emphasis on language learning as well as multilingualism and linguistic diversity', which I support joyfully and enthusiastically.
It is also important that in order to develop the linguistic competence of deaf children, they must first learn their mother tongue (sign language), which will allow them to become truly multilingual in the future.
The processes of democratic transformation which are currently beginning in Egypt and Tunisia can be strengthened thanks to the EU's efforts to educate the citizens of these countries in the spirit of democracy and respect for the rule of law and human rights.
The experiences of EU Member States can be used when organising such programmes.
The EU should support the initiatives of young and talented people to promote particular political strategies.
The adoption in June last year of a new EU strategy, Europe 2020, is intended to help bring us out of the economic crisis and contribute to further development of the European Union.
One of the priorities of the Europe 2020 strategy is the Youth on the Move initiative, the aim of which is to improve the results of our systems of education and make it easier for young people to enter the labour market.
Therefore, one of the most important challenges facing the European Union is the need to give particular attention and financial support to these two problems.
However, the situation will not improve if both the Commission and the Member States do not follow the guidelines contained in the Europe 2020 strategy.
Youth mobility is a key to the further development of Europe, and if we aspire to the status of the world's most innovative economy, we must not neglect to invest in human capital, and particularly in young people.
In the context of the current economic crisis, the EU needs a global strategy based on innovation and creativity, which will contribute to economic growth and job creation.
Consequently, I think that we need to ensure at the moment in Europe that there is a greater distribution of creative works and free access is provided to them online without, however, ignoring the fact that the artists and their works must be protected and receive fair remuneration.
With this in mind, we must set up a legislative framework capable of supporting the development of these industries and of instilling confidence in consumers and those operating in the digital market, as this sector may facilitate the creation of new jobs, thereby capitalising on the European Union's cultural diversity and its innovative potential.
I am pleased that, as part of the Europe 2020 strategy, we are focusing particular attention on young people, given the demographic challenges which our continent has to face.
Against this background, 'Youth on the Move', a flagship initiative from the European Commission, offers concrete measures for raising the level of education and vocational training, including through mobility and facilitating access to employment.
Apart from reducing the incidence of early school leaving and increasing the proportion of university graduates by 2020, I would like to highlight some aspects which may provide support to young people.
The first aspect is the importance of devising more flexible educational programmes which will be compatible with holding down a job at the same time.
The second aspect is the benefit of having a virtual mobility system to supplement geographical mobility.
Support is also just as important for private youth initiatives, which can lead to job creation and, by extension, social integration.
Youth unemployment caused by the economic crisis is a considerable challenge across the EU, and so far, neither the EU nor the Member States have handled it properly.
The employment situation of young people depends on general economic policy; Member States, therefore, should move towards investments and job creation.
The success and effectiveness of the 'Youth on the Move' initiative depends, to a large extent, on the attitude and key activities of Member States and the financial support they provide for the implementation of these programmes at a national level, which could contribute to the social integration of young people.
The role played by local education institutions, as well as local and regional authorities in the area of education and mobility, is also very important, which is why I believe it is important to support the mobility of teachers and youth and education workers, since they are the ones who can motivate youth.
In order to achieve these EU targets, a partnership approach should be created with local and regional authorities as well.
The Europe 2020 strategy puts the education of young people at the heart of its objectives and proposes targets for 2020: a reduction of early school leaving from 15% to 10% and an increase in the percentage of those having a higher education qualification from 31% to 40%.
The task of the EU is to create a framework for the processes and prevent Member States from losing track of the original goal while, at the same time, encouraging and motivating them to implement reforms that are difficult in the short term but certainly profitable in the long run.
At a time of economic crisis, when some Member States are reducing investment in education and training, I am pleased that Parliament has today adopted the report on Youth on the Move.
The rate of unemployment among young people in the EU has exceeded 20%, which is twice as high as the rate for adults, and in some Member States, it has reached 40%.
This initiative enables young people to acquire knowledge, skills and competences which are essential for work and life.
These priorities and objectives will not be fully realised and achieved if the EU does not ensure long-term financial support in its budget.
Moreover, a fair level of social security protection, with adequate insurance against unemployment, sickness and for old age, must be standard practice also for those working in the creative sector.
I am very pleased to see that the rapporteur followed the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in this regard and included it in the report.
It is now time for the Commission and the Member States to remedy these social deficiencies and to promise the many creative minds of Europe that creative artists in Europe need not live as an underclass.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his fine work and beneficial cooperation on this report.
It is gratifying that even in the current circumstances, this sector is one of the most dynamic and innovative in Europe.
I think that this is extremely important for the support and development of the cultural and creative industries because, as they are not quite commercial activities, they need soft financing, which banks cannot provide nowadays in the normal way for other industries.
For it is possible to create synergy between Union programmes for the support of culture, such as Culture 2007-2013, for example, with existing Union research programmes (such as the Eighth Framework Programme, which supports the EU's technological development), or to extend the possibilities for spending money from existing funds (such as the European Social Fund, for example).
Among other things, we propose strengthening cooperation between the cultural and creative sectors and European universities, increasing the number of specialist training courses for young people, and improving the mobility of all creators and people of culture.
To this end, we intend to create a multilingual Internet platform which would be used for the exchange of experiences between creators and, as a consequence, for the creation of a still closer network of contacts between all those for whom the development of the creative industry in Europe is important.
