Madam President, the starting point for this resolution is the almost mezza voce dissolution of the party led by Aung San Suu Kyi, who is a recipient of the Sakharov Prize and has been under house arrest for years.
The junta continues its abuses of power, large multinational companies continue to benefit from their contracts with that junta, and the Commission has reduced aid for refugees who have fled to the border with Thailand.
Madam President, in 1990, the Burmese human rights activist, Aung San Suu Kyi, was awarded the Sakharov prize by the European Parliament.
The concerns we expressed on 10 March this year, with regard to the so-called electoral process initiated by the Burmese junta, have merely been confirmed.
The conditions imposed by the electoral law have led to the National League for Democracy refusing to participate in the process.
Personally, I would like us to go further and, as President Obama and the United States have done, for the European Union to ban any investment in euro in Burma.
author. - Madam President, what more can we say about Burma that has not already been said, including calling again for the release of political prisoners like Aung San Suu Kyi who has become a global icon in the struggle for freedom?
The human rights situation in Burma is giving particular cause for concern.
The main opposition party led by Aung San Suu Kyi, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize and Sakharov Prize, will not take part in the elections.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, in organising farcical elections and refusing a national dialogue involving all political and ethnic groups, the Junta shows that the 'pragmatic' engagement with it is not working at all.
The UN special rapporteur on the human rights situation in Burma concluded last March that 'human rights violations are the result of a state policy that involves authorities in the executive, military and judiciary at all levels' and that these human rights violations 'may entail categories of crimes against humanity or war crimes under the terms of the [Rome] Statute of the International Criminal Court'.
This also includes the situation of Aung San Suu Kyi, who is in prison.
We have to welcome the European Union's support for the global arms embargo, and, once again, we have to urge the European Member States to have a clear coalition on a consensus for such a ban.
Another leader of the National League for Democracy also said that he is unable to serve his country after spending 20 years in prison for his convictions, simply because the military in Burma ban people, who have served such sentences which the military have actually passed, from standing as candidates.
The amendment to the constitution in 2008 guarantees that 25% of the seats in its parliament will be for the army.
Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy withdrew from the elections following pressure from the government; it has therefore been dissolved.
Many political prisoners have still not been released, despite appeals from the international community.
Each citizen receives about USD 2.4 on average, in comparison with USD 36 in Laos and USD 60 in Cambodia.
