Oral explanations of vote (ES) Mr President, I abstained because, on 14 January, the European Council renewed the measures against Côte d'Ivoire, in view of the seriousness of the situation following the holding of the presidential elections late last year.
The initiative's goal is development and the promotion of international trade in order to foster development.
I would also point out that you can always put an explanation of vote in writing if you wish. (HU) Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order.
That is a very serious point that you are making and the Bureau will look into it. (IT) Mr President, in order to go further along the road on which we set out in 2006, to make the European Union's external assistance more effective and transparent, we could not fail to eliminate the inconsistencies that have emerged regarding exceptions to the principle of non-eligibility for Union financing of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges.
The amendment to the regulation is, in that sense, necessary and timely.
The Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of strategy papers, as those strategy papers supplement Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 and are of general application.
I hope not only that appropriate consultations will be held during the preparatory work, but above all that the amendments adopted succeed in equipping Parliament with suitable instruments so that it can monitor and influence the measures adopted by the Commission.
Only in that way can we ensure that the EU's external assistance policy operates legitimately and democratically. (ES) Mr President, I should like to say that I think it is in the European Union's interests to establish agreements of this sort using financing instruments for cooperation with industrialised countries.
I therefore agree with the proposal to examine the impact of this agreement on the regions affected, in order to establish appropriate measures for mitigating the undesirable effects. (FI) (Beginning of speech missing) the banana war that almost become larger than life, that it is excellent that it has come to an end.
Of course it is quite true that it is important to ensure that the rules of fair play are preserved in the markets, but we must adhere to our principle whereby we treat all producers in the same way.
On the other hand, since 1993 the countries in the import regime have enjoyed an immense advantage and in that time have had the chance to sort themselves out and develop their own banana production.
This means that they are also better able to cope in the midst of genuine competition and are not merely reliant on special aid.
Its policy has been to favour producers in some former colonies at the expense of the principles of free trade which are, of course, enshrined notionally in the Treaty of Rome.
It is important for the financial obligations of industry to be concentrated on developing an effective electrical waste collection system, and not on the payment of penalties for failing to achieve set objectives for collection, where there is insufficiently developed infrastructure for waste collection in a given region. (PL) Mr President, the dynamic development and technological progress of the countries of Europe is also, unfortunately, accompanied by less desirable consequences.
Therefore, it is essential that the provisions for waste disposal and recycling are harmonised across and within the Member States of the European Union and, most importantly, that the export of waste without provision being made for certified and environmentally sound disposal is stopped.
However, as far as the current objective is concerned, I would like to say that this objective fails to take account of the very different economic conditions in the various Member States.
In my opinion, a percentage share based on market volumes over a certain period of time would be a better way of taking into account the particular circumstances of the Member States and their specific situation on the electrical goods market. (ES) Mr President, we have voted and I have voted in favour of this initiative on electronic waste.
Mr Florenz's report on the reuse of electrical and electronic equipment, on which we are voting today, is important not only for the future of environmental sustainability in Europe, but also for another aspect: the loss of raw materials.
In fact, the efficient and innovative use of materials and resources is a key issue in the globalised economy.
Our common Parliament and our common Union are the result of our endeavours never again to have to experience the horrors that totalitarian systems bring.
With this motion for a resolution, we want to accept our share of the responsibility for this and show that we are willing to support the fight for democracy and freedom in the Middle East.
To achieve that, the delegation has to go and monitor this process of full democratisation, as indeed it has gone to Tunisia today, but at the same time we need to give Tunisia a real chance through constant, ongoing support for full democracy. (DE) Mr President, I would like to take the floor again as part of the explanations of vote, because yesterday I unfortunately did not have the opportunity to speak.
We have underestimated the power of the people, if I can express it like that, and we should take this opportunity to ensure that we analyse situations better in future and, if necessary, react appropriately to events of this kind. (PL) Mr President, the recent events both in Tunisia and now in Egypt have caught the attention of the whole world.
The demonstrations by the citizens of these countries against the ossified regimes which hold power have, however, brought hope for permanent political change.
Cooperation and the development of mutual and equal relations with Tunisia lie in the interests both of the citizens of Europe and of Tunisians.
It is too easy to criticise these people after they have fallen.
All across the Middle East and the world, people are aware today that the West does not support its friends, and rest assured that there will be few candidates for our friendship from now on.
I believe that, once again, we have arrived too late, because the European Union did not come out strongly in favour of the people of Tunisia, who wanted to do away with a dictatorship that had been in place for so many years, and to win themselves freedoms and democracy.
I would therefore ask Baroness Ashton for greater European Union involvement, and for her to establish the taskforce mentioned in this resolution, in which the European Parliament should be involved, so that Tunisians can hold their democratic elections, can create institutions for their country and can get their freedoms back.
Moreover, I believe that we should make ourselves reflect on the issue of whether we in the European Union really treat all countries equally when we include clauses relating to respect for human rights.
However, we should encourage transition to constitutional democracy and promote an open economy, investment and economic growth, because it is economic growth - trading with the rest of the world - that will bring jobs and relieve poverty, which is actually the root cause of much of the dissatisfaction in the Arab world. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have of course voted in favour of this resolution, because I believe all the Member States need to make a greater effort in the fight against endemic diseases.
With the adoption of this text, the Member States must now make an effort to fulfil their own financial commitments, particularly with regard to developing countries, so that the right to health can also mean a right to preventive care. (NL) Mr President, last September, Parliament refused to close the accounts of the European Police College because of serious mismanagement and structural problems.
The delegation of the Dutch Freedom Party (PVV) has therefore voted against this proposal and wants the costs of all undue losses to be borne by those concerned.
We have worked very well without the EU in the county of Hampshire, where the EPC is situated.
It is an important turning point and a warning to the Berlusconi Government and the regional government run by Stefano Caldoro, which so far have done nothing but talk and bolster up their cliques and the Mafia establishment. (DE) Mr President, I hope that the citizens of Campania will see the resolution that we have adopted today as encouragement for them.
Written explanations of vote The unanimous vote on the request for waiver of the immunity of Hungarian MEP Tamás Deutsch highlights the benefit of the protection guaranteed at EU level to all members of the legislative.
Indeed, the case involving Tamás Deutsch demonstrates its direct benefit.
The very attempt to prevent MEPs from expressing their opinions on matters of public interest and concern by instituting legal proceedings is unacceptable in a democratic society.
Defending the independence of the mandate of Members of this House is the responsibility of Parliament, and that independence cannot be jeopardised.
The Member is accused of defamation allegedly committed as a result of statements made about the accuser, a Hungarian citizen, in the course of a radio programme broadcast on 25 March 2010, to which he was invited in his capacity as a politician and a Member of the European Parliament.
in writing. - All this mess surrounding the immunity of Tamás Deutsch MEP is just a method of political struggle.
In the given case I voted against the waiver of the immunity of Thomas Deutsch.
The comments were clearly made in his capacity as a Member of the European Parliament, which means that under EU rules he is covered by parliamentary immunity.
The waiver of an MEP's immunity is always a sensitive issue to address, but in some cases requests for waivers should be analysed in the context of an MEP's duties.
The rules on immunity also show that the accusations made against Tamás Deutsch refer to opinions expressed in the course of his duties as a Member of the European Parliament.
I voted in favour because I advocate freedom of expression for Members when performing their duties, and in order to defend the interests of the European Parliament as an institution.
Nonetheless, I would add that I believe those in positions of political responsibility in general - Members of this House included - must always keep their discourse truthful and respectful of other involved parties, which has not always happened.
in writing. - At the sitting of 8 July 2010 the President announced, under Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that he had received a letter sent by the Hungarian judicial authorities on 9 June 2010 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Tamás Deutsch.
The Court of the 2nd and 3rd Districts of Budapest asked the European Parliament to waive the immunity of its Member, Tamás Deutsch, against whom criminal proceedings are being brought in that court.
Tamás Deutsch is accused in the proceedings pending in the Budapest Court of the criminal offence of defamation under Section 179(2)(b-c) of the Hungarian Criminal Code.
The case against Tamás Deutsch is that during a radio programme 'Let's discuss it' (Megbeszéljük) broadcast on the 'Klubradio' radio station on 25 March 2010 Tamás Deutsch expressed a number of allegedly untrue statements concerning the past of the accuser and considered by him to be defamatory.
In view of the absence of any alternative proposal from the colegislator, and in view of the need to act quickly in the interests of the beneficiaries, I think that Parliament must confirm its first-reading position with regard to the proper procedure for the purposes of democratic control and application of delegated acts without entering into a new debate on individual changes at this stage.
At the same time, I agree that the Council must respond as quickly as possible to Parliament's second-reading position so that we can find a solution and all the funds can be released.
in writing. - The UK Independence Party feels that trade, not aid, is the best way to support developing countries' economies.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the Regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation.
It supports the efforts of African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries to reduce poverty and ensure sustainable economic and social development.
The main ACP banana-exporting countries may face challenges in the context of changing trade arrangements, notably liberalisation of the Most Favoured Nation (MFN) tariff in the framework of the World Trade Organisation and the bilateral and regional agreements concluded, or in the process of being concluded, between the Union and Latin American countries.
The financial assistance measures to be adopted under the programme should aim at improving the living standards and living conditions of people in banana-growing areas and in banana value chains, specifically small farmers and small entities, as well as ensuring compliance with labour and occupational health and safety standards, and environmental standards, notably those regarding the use of and exposure to pesticides.
The measures should therefore also support the adaptation, including, when relevant, the reorganisation, of areas dependent upon banana exports through sector-specific budget support or project-specific interventions.
I welcome the EU's commitment to supporting the efforts of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries to achieve sustainable economic and social development.
By integrating a trade dimension into development strategies and by promoting international trade, the EU has made a significant contribution to reducing and eradicating poverty in these countries.
It is important to promote the economic diversification of these regions and make them more competitive, whilst taking into account these countries' policies and adaptation strategies, as well as their regional environment.
It is essential to support ACP countries' adjustment to the liberalisation of the Union's market within the framework of the World Trade Organisation.
I call for the issues central to EU aid to be improving people's living standards and living conditions and, where relevant, those of small entities, not least by respecting labour, safety and environmental standards.
The refusal of the Council to grant Parliament its proper role in implementing the financing instruments according to Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not appear legitimate to me.
In the case of delegated acts, it must keep intact its powers to revoke that delegation.
One year on since the interinstitutional negotiations were initiated on the horizontal issue of delegated acts within the scope of external action financial instruments, the Council has officially refused to grant Parliament its proper role in the operation of the financing instruments, including for development cooperation, as stipulated in Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
After rejecting all the amendments from first reading attempting to introduce delegated acts into the instruments, without proposing any alternative procedure, the Council called for Parliament to adopt its position without leaving any scope for negotiations.
These negotiations are intended primarily to ensure respect for the Treaty of Lisbon by all institutions and not only effective parliamentary control and, therefore, democratic control over the implementation of EU legislation.
Indeed, the outcome of the negotiations will establish an important precedent for future legislative negotiations on all financing instruments.
I voted in favour of the report on establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation.
I think that such a financial instrument is a necessity in the context where developing countries have become strategic partners of the EU.
I hope that the financing instrument is able to support the necessary adjustment arising from the reduction in preferential tariffs for the producing countries.
We need to remember here that the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, which will be significantly affected by this agreement and were not duly involved in its discussion, estimate the amount of aid necessary to maintain their banana sector at EUR 500 million.
Therefore, the amount proposed by the Commission, EUR 190 million, is well below the estimated impact of this agreement.
On the African continent alone, approximately 500 000 people depend on the banana sector for their living.
Lastly, I would mention that the amendments that we have adopted follow on from a mid-term review of the programme and are aimed at more effective intervention and greater monitoring by the European Union.
This draft legislative resolution is aimed at establishing a financing instrument that helps protect ACP countries affected by the reduction of tariff preferences.
I voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the financing instrument for development cooperation.
Moreover, I should like to emphasise that the European Parliament has always been in favour of granting financing measures for the banana sector to the 10 ACP banana-producing countries.
The only stumbling block in this matter remains the horizontal issue of delegated acts.
I hope that we can quickly reach an agreement at institutional level on this last point.
As in the case of the other reports concerning the financial instruments for development cooperation, this report strengthens the rights of the European Parliament in relation to the delegated acts adopted by the Commission, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - (DE) The report grants the European Parliament more powers in the area of conferred competences.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
On the subject of development cooperation, I voted in favour of establishing a financing instrument to encourage that process, because the European Union's development policy aims to reduce poverty over the long term.
I believe the financial assistance measures to be adopted in such a context should aim at improving the living conditions of the groups most at risk, and should therefore facilitate adaptation and inclusion through sectoral support and specific actions.
I am also of the opinion that EU policy should focus more on substantive integration with developing countries through the establishment of a specific, appropriate financing instrument.
It is therefore necessary to promote targeted actions in that direction in order to achieve a stable level of cooperation with regard to countries at risk.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the amendments to Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation at second reading.
These amendments are aimed at supporting the main banana-exporting countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific using Banana Accompanying Measures (BAMs), which are intended to last four years (2010-2013).
These and other concerns, which have been well highlighted in the final text, such as environmental, health and labour standards associated with the fulfilment of specific criteria for allocating funds, were the reason why I voted in favour.
Under the terms of this proposal for a regulation, which amends Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the main ACP banana-supplying countries will benefit from Banana Accompanying Measures (BAMs), aimed at assisting their process of adjustment to this new import regime.
With specific regard to this recommendation for a second reading, what it at stake is the issue of implementing the financing instrument for development cooperation on the procedure relating to delegated acts, as outlined in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which would concern both strategic planning documents and the BAMs.
I voted in favour because I agree that in its capacity as a co-legislator, Parliament should be able to monitor the adoption of strategic decisions about where and how development aid is spent, on an equal footing with the Council.
in writing. - Under the influence of the European Parliament's Legal Service, the DEVE, AFET (DROI) and INTA Committees have started a fight to gain co-decision rights on the strategic programming level of the financial instruments in external relations.
Parliament has decided to raise the bargaining level by treating all instruments in a package approach.
This is a four-year plan, running from 2010 to 2013 and, according to the document, the measures must be geared to the objectives of development and the eradication of poverty, taking into account environmental, health and labour standards, and the specific criteria applicable to the allocation of funds must be formulated.
in writing. - (PT) Bearing in mind that the new framework for governing the planning and performance of aid activities, established in 2006 in order to make Community aid more effective and transparent, has revealed some inconsistencies in its implementation, namely with regard to the exceptions to the principle of non-eligibility for EU financing of costs related to tariffs, taxes and other charges, I approve the adoption of a second reading of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006, which grants greater legitimacy to the other institutions (Parliament and the Council) in the adoption of strategic documents by the Commission within the scope of delegated acts.
in writing. - The UK Independence Party fully supports the cause of genuine human rights.
Democracy and human rights are fundamental values for the European Union, which should be strongly promoted worldwide as an integral part of the ongoing actions aimed at reducing poverty and settling conflicts, while providing, at the same time, a valuable starting point in the fight against terrorism.
I therefore welcome the European Union's specific intention to incorporate the promotion of democracy and human rights in its external policies.
The financing instrument for the promotion of human rights worldwide increases the effectiveness and transparency of EU external assistance and enhances respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the countries and regions where they are most at risk.
I am in favour of action to increase civil society's role in promoting human rights and democratic reform, in supporting the peaceful conciliation of group interests and in boosting political participation and representation.
Furthermore, I support the actions carried out in the areas which come under the European Union's guidelines, relating specifically to the promotion of democracy, human rights, the death penalty, torture, children's rights, violence against women and armed conflict.
I voted for this report which supports and strengthens the international and regional framework for protecting human rights, justice, the rule of law and promotion of democracy.
The EU finances many projects in developing countries with the aim of promoting development cooperation, democracy and human rights.
I fully endorse the decision to resubmit the same amendments as were adopted at first reading but rejected by the Council.
The aim of the proposal, which fits into the broader context of interinstitutional negotiations on the use of delegated acts for the financing of the Union's external action, is in fact to protect Parliament's prerogatives as laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, while also ensuring effective control over the implementation of EU legislation.
The Council has shown its reluctance to accept that the procedure under Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies to the instruments in question.
That not only demonstrates the Council's unjustifiable refusal to grant Parliament its due role as colegislator in making strategic decisions on the management of financing instruments, but also ends up legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of EU legislation.
This refusal by the Council goes against the letter and the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore believe that it is crucial to insist that the proposed amendments are accepted, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, in order to strengthen Parliament's role and ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the Council in terms of respecting each other's powers and the legislative changes introduced by the Treaty.
The Commission and the Council are opposing each other on the application to the financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and also to all the strategy papers and the multiannual indicative programmes.
Like the resolution resulting from the Mitchell report voted on today, the present resolution also accepts the need to perform a mainly technical clarification in the same vein in an attempt to guarantee the position of the European Parliament in the legislative process and in the control and monitoring of the acts of the Commission.
As I advocate compliance with and respect for the Treaty of Lisbon, I am voting in favour of Parliament having a clear position on the assertion of its powers and responsibilities, and taking an active role in promoting EU policies which are capable of ensuring effective support for democracy, freedom and respect for human rights worldwide.
In view of this, it is crucial that Parliament have an effective opportunity to evaluate this instrument and ensure that it is being used correctly in supporting people and institutions working in their respective countries, under very adverse conditions, to counter oppressive regimes or trends.
These people are promoters of the development of democratic structures, of freedom of the press and speech, and of the fight against corruption and other problems that undermine full respect for human rights, and which are at the root of crises such as those currently occurring in the countries of North Africa.
Let us also look at the contradiction that exists in the signing, by the authorities that are, de facto, the result of the coup in Honduras, of a so-called 'EU-Central America Association Agreement', which includes a clause demanding respect for human rights and democracy.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because there are still too many human rights violations in the world.
The financial and economic crisis, climate change, the introduction of new information technologies and the war on terror further exacerbate human rights issues and new forms of human rights violations emerge.
Development cooperation represents a very important part of EU external relations.
It is the most important instrument reducing poverty in developing countries, and developing the economies of the poorest nations, as well as social policies, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
The promotion of democracy and human rights should be the most important priority of a coherent EU foreign policy.
In December 2006, the European Parliament and the Council enacted Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide.
It is for this reason in particular that I believe that, thanks to its vote, Parliament has today provided that extra something to ensure that its financial assistance has the effect of safeguarding democracy and fundamental human rights, because achieving those things is what it was designed for.
I voted for this report on the European instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide.
The problems which have emerged due to the implementation of these regulations lead to inconsistencies regarding exceptions to the principle of non-eligibility for EU financing of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges.
An amendment is therefore proposed to the relevant provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 in order to align them with other instruments, and so that they can play their part in the fight for human rights worldwide.
This motion is primarily about empowering the Commission to adopt delegated acts.
This and the possibility of raising objections to the delegated acts or even of revoking them completely, together with the proposed measures for increasing efficiency, have prompted me to vote in favour of the report.
For this reason, I voted in favour of this report.
The European Parliament should acquire the same powers as the European Council in deciding when, where and how much of the instrument should be used.
It would therefore be appropriate to establish a financing instrument in order to facilitate and support the promotion of human rights and democracy.
A regulatory framework for planning and delivering assistance was established in 2006 in order to make the Community's external assistance more effective and transparent.
According to the reports submitted to Parliament, the implementation of this framework has revealed profound inconsistencies regarding exceptions to the principle of non-eligibility for Union financing of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges.
In view of this, it is important to amend certain provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 in order to align them with the provisions of other instruments pertaining to the aforementioned regulatory framework.
With specific regard to this recommendation for a second reading, what is at stake is the issue of applying the procedure relating to delegated acts, as outlined in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to the financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights.
in writing. - Under the influence of the European Parliament's Legal Service, the DEVE, AFET (DROI) and INTA Committees have started a fight to gain co-decision rights on the strategic programming level of the financial instruments in external relations.
Parliament has decided to raise the bargaining level by treating all instruments in a package approach.
As it turned out after the first reading in October 2010, negotiations on the 'delegated acts' are completely blocked.
I supported this text because I think it can help to make the European Union's external assistance procedures more effective and transparent.
in writing. - (LT) Democracy is not just free and fair elections.
In order for there to be a democratic society, it is necessary to support and defend human rights.
The EU has often rushed to be the first to condemn human rights violations outside the EU, such as when it approved the application of sanctions against President Lukashenko's regime on Monday, or when it criticised human rights violations in Egypt and Tunisia.
However, the EU should focus attention on strengthening the rule of law within its borders, as well as increasing transparency and accountability in public services.
It is important for the EU to have a good reputation in the field of human rights if it wants to take full advantage of its financial instruments for external action.
It is therefore necessary to amend the relevant provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 in order to align it with the other instruments.
By supporting this legislative recommendation for second reading, I want to guarantee that the legislative role that the Treaty of Lisbon has given the European Parliament is not devalued through the intransigence of the Council.
The refusal of the Council to grant Parliament its proper role in implementing the financing instruments according to Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not appear legitimate to me.
In the case of delegated acts, it must keep intact its powers to revoke that delegation.
I fully endorse the decision to resubmit the same amendments as were adopted at first reading but rejected by the Council.
The aim of the proposal, which fits into the broader context of interinstitutional negotiations on the use of delegated acts for the financing of the Union's external action, is in fact to protect Parliament's prerogatives as laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, while also ensuring effective control over the implementation of EU legislation.
The Council has shown its reluctance to accept that the procedure under Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies to the instruments in question.
That not only demonstrates the Council's unjustifiable refusal to grant Parliament its due role as co-legislator in making strategic decisions on the management of financing instruments, but also ends up legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of EU legislation.
This refusal by the Council goes against the letter and the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore believe that it is crucial to insist that the proposed amendments are accepted, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, in order to strengthen Parliament's role and ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the Council in terms of respecting each other's powers and the legislative changes introduced by the Treaty.
I voted in favour of this resolution since I believe that the European Parliament, in its capacity as colegislator, must be able to control the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is dispensed on an equal footing with the Council, as provided in the Treaty of Lisbon.
The amendment concerned is apparently technical and arises from the difference in interpretation of the Council and of the Commission on the one hand and Parliament on the other with regard to the applicability of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to multiannual indicative programmes.
Delegated acts (Article 290 TFEU) give both arms of the legislative authority the power to block proposals by the Commission or revoke the delegation.
Given the acceptance of Parliament's recommendation for a second reading on the financing instrument for development cooperation, I agree with the need to proceed to the amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 as a matter of urgency, so as to avoid interinstitutional conflicts which do nothing to improve the image of the European institutions and only delay the allocation of funds in the respective processes of development cooperation.
At this second reading, the discussion has been dominated by the possibility of delegating to the Commission the adoption of non-legislative acts that supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act, in other words, what are known as 'delegated acts'.
Another concern is the guarantee that the Commission acts within the strict limits of the delegation attributed to it (which, according to the terms provided, can be revoked), without exceeding its competences, and the guarantee that the competences of Parliament and of the Council are therefore duly safeguarded.
Therefore, we have to condemn the way in which the Commission has sought to impose free trade agreements on developing countries, in spite of their considerable resistance, since it is explicitly or implicitly making part of the aid conditional on these agreements in an act of unacceptable blackmail.
The interinstitutional negotiations on the external financing instruments are about the need to ensure democratic control by Parliament over the implementation of EU legislation.
Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union grants Parliament the power to object to or revoke certain decisions proposed by the Commission on where and how money is spent..
The funds in question will serve purposes such as organising civil society in Belarus or supporting human rights in Tunisia.
The different ways in which Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is interpreted by Parliament and the Council has led me to support this legislative recommendation.
We cannot forget the legislative role of Parliament, as enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, but it seems to have been overlooked by the Council.
This intransigence is blocking a series of legislative processes, and this is doing nothing to benefit the EU.
Development cooperation with countries that have so-called 'emerging economies' is very important for the EU.
As in the case of the Gál/Lochbihler report, this proposed amendment to the regulation on establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation concerns improvements to efficiency by means of the delegated acts adopted by the Commission.
I have voted in favour of this report, because the amendments would increase the European Parliament's powers of control.
I voted in favour of amending the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation because I believe that cooperation is an important aspect of EU external action and relations policy.
Development and economic growth currently underpin the proper functioning of a country.
It is therefore necessary to promote targeted actions in that direction in order to achieve a stable level of cooperation with regard to countries at risk.
The financial aid to be allocated and devoted to those countries should be intended for serious and practical support so as to make them financially independent from international assistance.
I voted in favour of this report,, for similar reasons as I did for the preceding report,.
To this end, the rapporteur believes that in technical terms a number of decisions, which are normally taken by the Commission for the execution of the basic act, fulfil the criteria for being considered 'delegated acts', pursuant to Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I feel I must emphasise here that the financial assistance measures to be adopted under the programme should aim at improving the living standards and living conditions of people in banana-growing areas and in banana value chains, specifically small farmers and small entities, as well as ensuring compliance with labour and occupational health and safety standards, and environmental standards, notably those regarding the use of and exposure to pesticides.
The measures should therefore support the adaptation and include, when relevant, the reorganisation of areas dependent upon banana exports through sector-specific budget support or project-specific interventions.
With specific regard to this recommendation for a second reading, what it at stake is the issue of implementing the financing instrument for development cooperation through the procedure relating to delegated acts, as outlined in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I voted in favour because I agree that, in its capacity as co-legislator, Parliament should be able to monitor the adoption of strategic decisions about where and how development aid is spent on an equal footing with the Council.
in writing. - (IT) Improving democratic control over the funds intended for supporting human rights is a concrete objective that we have to achieve.
Granting this House power over what are known as 'delegated acts' would help to shrink the democratic deficit in the decision-making process of the European Union.
The outcome of the negotiations on the use of these instruments will establish a strong precedent.
The European Commission has proposed a technical review of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) with the aim of increasing flexibility, efficiency of implementation and coordination with other financial mechanisms.
The turbulence affecting many Arab countries, in particular Tunisia and Egypt, demonstrates the need to support projects that have an impact on the pursuit of democratic values and human rights.
However, I regret having to point out the Council's refusal to apply Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which delegates to the Commission 'the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act'.
The introduction of the regulatory procedure with control over strategy documents and multiannual cooperation programmes within the framework of the EIDHR would give the European Parliament greater power in this respect, as enshrined in the TFEU.
The intention is to advance and promote the political and foreign policy agenda of the European Commission.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the recommendation establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories.
The primary objective of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 is the eradication of poverty through the pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals.
The scope of cooperation for the geographic programmes with developing countries and regions established under that Regulation is furthermore limited materially to financing measures designed to fulfil the criteria for Official Development Assistance ('ODA criteria') established by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ('OECD/DAC').
It is in the European Union's interests to further deepen its relations with the developing countries concerned, which are important bilateral partners and players in multilateral fora and in global governance.
It therefore needs a financial instrument that allows the financing of such measures which, in principle, do not qualify as ODA under the ODA criteria, but which are crucially important in terms of consolidating relations and which make an important contribution to promoting the progress of the developing countries concerned.
The Council has shown its reluctance to accept that the procedure under Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies to the instruments in question.
That not only demonstrates the Council's unjustifiable refusal to grant Parliament its due role as co-legislator in making strategic decisions on the management of financing instruments, but also ends up legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of EU legislation.
This refusal by the Council goes against the letter and the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore believe that it is crucial to insist that the proposed amendments are accepted, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, in order to strengthen Parliament's role and ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the Council in terms of respecting each other's powers and the legislative changes introduced by the Treaty.
in writing. - (PT) I regard it as fundamental that Europe establishes strong relations with certain regional and global players by supporting them and establishing strong political and economic links.
Knowing that the principal general objective of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 is to eradicate poverty through the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, cooperation is essentially limited to the financing of measures aimed at satisfying the criteria applicable to public development aid as established.
Very often, this excludes other types of action that are not included within the scope of public development aid, but which are nevertheless essential as part of EU external policy.
Parliament has a duty and obligation to defend the conditions necessary for the exercise of its powers and responsibilities under the Treaty of Lisbon.
In addition to the importance of this instrument in supporting emerging countries - especially in Africa and Latin America - so as to assert the EU's role as a promoter of social development and peace in global terms, I would like to highlight the need for Parliament to be given better information to ensure the proper implementation of such resources aiming to promote development cooperation in third countries.
I would also like to point out the acknowledgement of the strategies at the level of renewable energy, environmental-protection policy, culture, and small- and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the importance of taking measures to prevent crises in terms of food and raw materials.
I voted in favour of the establishment of a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries, to complement European development aid.
The financing is intended to support economic, financial, technical, cultural and academic cooperation with partner countries and to strengthen economic links and bilateral agreements with those countries.
In this text we also ask to be better informed about the measures financed, but also to be involved upstream, when programmes are developed, and downstream, when they are assessed, after several years of implementation in some cases.
The different ways in which Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is interpreted by Parliament and the Council has led me to support this legislative recommendation.
We cannot forget the legislative role of Parliament, as enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, but it seems to have been overlooked by the Council.
This intransigence is blocking a series of legislative processes, and is doing nothing to benefit the EU.
On the contrary, governments have been made dependent on aid and, what is even worse, millions of euros of development aid often disappear because of corruption or are siphoned off into the bank accounts of third-world dictators.
On the one hand, giving money to small African farmers, while, on the other hand, bringing them to the brink of ruin with our subsidised agricultural products, means that we are throwing European taxpayers' money down the drain.
My decision to vote for the establishment of a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in this House, fully supports the common line of applying Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the criteria of Article 290 cannot be the matter of political bargains or any special arrangements.
Since 2007, the EU has been streamlining its geographical cooperation with developing countries in Asia, Central Asia and Latin America, and with Iraq, Iran, Yemen and South Africa under Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 of 18 December 2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation.
The primary and overarching objective of this regulation is the eradication of poverty through the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
In the light of the new powers granted to Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon, the rapporteur explains the need to amend Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 by extending its geographical scope, while at the same time putting Parliament at the heart of the decision-making process, alongside the Council.
With specific regard to this recommendation for a second reading, what is at issue here is the implementation of the procedure relating to delegated acts, as outlined in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries.
I voted in favour because I believe that it is vital to ensure that Parliament is treated on an equal footing with the Council, and that the programming structure for the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries is harmonised with the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because I believe it contains recommendations to the Commission and to the Council that are fundamental for fair compensation for the negative effects of the agreements established, namely their effects on the regions of Europe.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of an Agreement on Trade in Bananas.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on the Agreement on Trade in Bananas because this agreement puts an end to a dispute lasting almost two decades and also marks a step in the right direction towards concluding the Doha Round.
The decision has been made in this agreement to reduce the tariffs for Latin American banana exporters, while also guaranteeing financial aid targeted at boosting the competitiveness of banana producers in the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States.
in writing. - (SV) It is important to bring the long drawn-out dispute regarding import tariffs for bananas within the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to an end, and therefore ratification of the 2009 Geneva Agreement concerning tariffs and trade was necessary.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats support the conclusion of the Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas between the EU, the United States and several Latin American countries and the fact that the ACP countries will be guaranteed support through the Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM) programme.
However, we do not support the passages concerning an increase in agricultural aid through POSEI for EU producers affected by the agreement.
We believe that the EU's agricultural aid should be phased out.
The agreement reached on 15 December 2009 between the EU, a group of Latin American countries and the United States regarding customs duties on banana imports appears to have advantages, but does not fully reconcile the legitimate interests of all the parties.
The Geneva Agreement signed on 15 December 2009 between the EU and Latin American banana-supplying countries settled a long dispute within the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
These negotiations, which were conducted in the context of the Doha Round, involve not only the Latin American countries, but also the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP) and the US, which have pledged to end the disputes in the WTO over the EU's banana import regime and with which the EU maintains trade relations.
The aim of this agreement is to introduce a gradual decrease in EU customs duties over seven years.
I therefore welcome the negotiations undertaken by the Commission and hope that these agreements on trade in bananas - the Geneva Agreement and EU-US Agreement - will be concluded as soon as possible.
The end of this dispute benefits the US multinationals in the sector, but penalises European and ACP producers, particularly the small and medium-sized ones.
No principle or value is upheld in the face of the will to impose on all nations the laws of the market and free trade, no matter what the economic and social consequences.
The Members of the European Parliament have voted in favour of a motion for a resolution in support of the 'Geneva Agreement', which is supposed to end the 'banana war'.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution and for Amendments 7 and 11.
Amendment 7 draws attention to the fact that some Latin American countries gained additional benefits after the WTO agreement through negotiating free trade agreements and that these agreements further weaken the position of ACP countries.
Amendment 11 draws attention to human rights concerns in Columbia and Honduras.
This motion for a resolution is idle talk designed to make people forget that Parliament can only accept or reject.
I have to welcome the end of one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially meaningful legal disputes ever brought to the World Trade Organisation.
Under the agreement, the EU will gradually lower its import tariffs on bananas from Latin America from EUR 176 per tonne to EUR 114 per tonne by 2017.
These agreements have strengthened the dominant position of the US multinationals, which already control more than 80% of the world market, and thus act against the interests, in particular, of the ACP countries, the outermost regions and Ecuador.
The financial measures proposed by the European Commission to assist ACP producers (Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM)) and the outermost regions of the European Union (Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity (POSEI)) are insufficient.
The European Union must ensure that an impact assessment is carried out in relation to these agreements, but above all it must amend its legislation accordingly so as to promote sustainable production.
According to the terms of the agreement signed with the countries of Latin America, the EU will gradually reduce the duties applicable to banana exports from the current EUR 176 per tonne to the final value of EUR 114 per tonne by 2017.
The question of EU relations with third countries in the banana sector also includes the treatment directed towards African, Caribbean and Pacific countries through new accompanying measures.
It remains to be seen which measures will be adopted to take into due account the interests of the producers in the outermost regions, allegedly already compensated in the budget of the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity (POSEI).
I voted against this international trade agreement.
The history of international trade proves that the trend for monoculture is not a viable or sustainable economic development model.
What is more, the European Union has a duty, as I see it, to honour its commitments and to provide adequate financial support to the outermost regions.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of an Agreement on Trade in Bananas.
Bananas are the world's fourth most important crop, and make a major contribution to food security.
However, in most banana producing countries, production is exclusively for the domestic and occasionally regional markets, with only 20% of global production being traded internationally.
On 15 December 2009, the EU, a group of Latin American countries and the United States reached an agreement on the EU's tariffs on banana imports, bringing to a close one of the most protracted and bitter disputes in the multilateral trading system's recent history.
The agreement consists of three basic components: an agreed schedule of tariff reductions for most-favoured nation (MFN) banana exporters; agreement on how to deal with 'tropical products' and products subject to 'preference erosion' in the wider WTO negotiations; a financial package, amounting to EUR 190 million, of assistance to ACP banana exporters, to be known as the Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM) programme.
The disputes on bananas have destabilised the climate for production and trade in the countries concerned.
I voted in favour of this report and I congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done.
I agree with the liberalisation process for the trade in bananas following the agreements reached in the World Trade Organisation and the bilateral agreements concluded with Central and South American countries.
I feel, however, that there is also a need to safeguard European producers, who have always been committed to the production and processing of bananas and play a crucial social role in certain EU regions, such as Guadeloupe, Martinique, Madeira and the Azores.
in writing. - (CS) I voted in favour of the agreement on the banana trade, which brings a definitive end to the 16-year commercial dispute over banana imports between the EU and American countries.
We are opposed to increasing EU aid for EU producers affected by the agreement (paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft), and, in general, we believe that EU agricultural aid should be phased out.
I voted in favour of the recommendation relating to the agreements on the banana trade, because I believe that the signing of these agreements will put an end to the disputes within the WTO and contribute to the stability of the world banana market.
However, I do believe it necessary to guarantee respect for the interests and specific needs of the banana producers of the outermost regions, namely by increasing the funds available under the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity (POSEI).
Banana growing represents the fourth biggest market in the world and only a limited number of producer countries are participating in it.
This resolution addresses the conclusion of a Geneva Agreement on trade in bananas between the EU and certain Latin American countries, and on another agreement on trade in bananas between the EU and the US.
I therefore hope that the amounts allocated to the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity are increased so that European banana producers can resist the competition created by the growing liberalisation of this sector as a result of new agreements.
in writing. - I voted to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas with 11 Latin American countries and the United States.
By giving our assent, the European Parliament today put an end to the long-lasting 'banana war'.
We should always take this into account when drafting the common agricultural policy of the EU.
The basis, however, should continue to be an assessment of the impacts on affected countries, together with an estimate of possible development in the longer term.
Bananas are the world's fourth most important crop, after rice, wheat and maize, and so I have to welcome the end of one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially meaningful legal disputes ever brought to the World Trade Organisation.
From now on, the European Union will gradually reduce its import tariffs on bananas from Latin America.
However, bananas from the ACP countries will continue to enjoy duty-free access within the European Union.
Furthermore, the main ACP banana-producing countries will receive aid from the EU budget (up to the sum of EUR 200 million) to help them adapt to tougher competition from Latin America.
The impact of these agreements on producers in developing countries and in the outermost regions of the European Union will have to be assessed.
An agreement has been reached in December 2009 which has brought the long-term dispute over bananas between the EU and the World Trade Organisation to an end.
It consists of three main requirements which the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) states and the Latin American countries that supply bananas must meet.
The aim is to close some alleged loopholes.
In addition, the EU undertakes to apply strictly controlled tariffs to banana imports.
in writing. - (DE) The Geneva Agreement is intended to put an end to the so-called 'banana war'.
Further conflicts are to be expected, however, because the Latin American countries have demanded a significantly greater reduction in customs duties.
For these reasons, I voted against this report.
The draft Council decision on the conclusion of the agreements on trade in bananas between the European Union and countries of the Americas and of Latin America is important from the point of view of making it easier to trade in one of the most common foodstuffs in the world, after rice, wheat and maize.
I voted in favour of Mrs Balzani's text because agreements such as this one allow for more extensive marketing and greater differentiation in the distribution of the product, given that only a small number of producer countries are involved in the trade in bananas, which is limited to a select group of multinationals which control more than 80% of internationally traded bananas.
I voted in favour of the recommendation on the Agreements on Trade in Bananas, since these agreements put an end to the disputes in the World Trade Organisation and contribute to the stability of the world market in bananas.
I believe, however, that it is essential to ensure respect for the interests and specific needs of banana producers in the outermost regions, in particular by increasing the funds available to the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity (POSEI).
The situation in the European Union is very special, since bananas are the world's fourth most important crop and there is only a limited number of banana-producing countries.
On 15 December 2009, the EU, a group of Latin American countries and the United States reached an agreement on the EU's tariffs on banana imports, bringing to a close a protracted dispute over the EU's preferential treatment of banana imports from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries to the detriment of bananas from Latin America.
Under the terms of the deal, the EU will gradually cut its tariffs on imports of Latin American bananas from the current level of EUR 176/tonne to EUR 114/tonne by 2017, which will naturally have a negative impact on banana-producing ACP countries and EU outermost regions.
Nevertheless, only 20% of production is traded internationally.
The trade is concentrated in the hands of just five major multinationals, which alone control more than 80% of all internationally traded bananas.
On 15 December 2009, the EU reached an agreement with the United States and a group of Latin American countries on a new tariff regime, bringing to a close a protracted dispute over the fact that African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries could export bananas to Europe under favourable tariffs, distorting the market to the detriment of South American producers.
Parliament should now ensure that the Commission and the Council put forward specific initiatives to strengthen the commercial position of banana growers; they should provide Parliament as soon as possible with an impact assessment on the agreement's effects on banana-producing developing countries and the outermost regions of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this because the EU has been accused of violating trade rules by importing bananas from Africa, Caribbean and Pacific countries without any levy while imposing heavy taxes on other countries.
To give one's assent to this agreement is to support the Commission in a strategy that is inconsistent with the EU's effort in favour of the ORs and the ACP countries.
Taking into account the positions expressed in my previous declarations of vote and because I disagree with the way in which the process was developed, without impact assessments having been carried out first, when it was known that crops were concerned that were important for some European Union regions, like the ultra-peripheral regions, I am abstaining from this vote to demonstrate my objection.
Bananas are the world's fourth most important crop, after rice, wheat and maize, and make a major contribution to food security.
EU banana import policies had recently been the subject of a decade-long row at the World Trade Organisation, pitting the EU against several Latin American banana producers and the US.
I therefore call on the Commission to ensure that a serious, independent impact assessment is conducted in the coming months to check for any negative effects and the consequences of the entry into force of the agreement for EU banana producers.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal repealing the Council Regulation on the tariff rates for bananas.
The EU's banana import regime allowed 775,000 tonnes of the fruit from ACP countries to enter the EU duty-free each year, with a EUR 176/t tariff on bananas from all other exporters (most-favoured nation (MFN) suppliers).
Under the terms of the deal, the EU will gradually cut its tariffs on Latin American banana exports, until they are reduced to the level of EUR 114/t.
I voted in favour of the report on the customs duties applicable to bananas, which aims to apply the new duties provided for in the Geneva Agreement, the signing of which should contribute to the stability and predictability of the world banana market.
On 15 December 2009, the EU, a group of Latin American countries and the United States reached an agreement regarding customs duties on banana imports.
In this respect, the current Council Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas, which provides for a duty of EUR 176 per tonne, must be revoked.
Although it was not possible to achieve total consensus, I welcome this further advance towards the EU's final commitment on this matter to be included in the next round of negotiations, and I express my full agreement with the revocation of the tariff rate established in Council Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 of 29 November 2005.
With this agreement, the US multinationals, which today already control more than 80% of the world's banana trade - interests that the Commission agrees it was trying to 'tranquillise' with this agreement - will see their market share get even bigger.
In return, the Agreement - as the rapporteur herself admits - will threaten the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized producers, both in African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and in European countries.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution to repeal Council Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas.
This is necessary as a result of the vote to give assent to the agreement on trade in bananas agreed at the WTO.
This means that the European Union will make significant savings on the funds dedicated to relations with developing countries.
In the EU alone 5.4 million tonnes of bananas were sold in 2008.
A dispute between the EU and the World Trade Organisation which has lasted for decades and which concerned preferential treatment given by the EU to banana imports from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries compared with those from Latin America, has finally been brought to an end by an agreement reached in December 2009.
The issue has also been debated within the WTO, since some Latin American countries denounced the discriminatory and illegal nature of the regulation on the EU's import regime, which included tariff rates for the countries of South America and concessions for the ACP countries.
I felt it my duty to vote in favour of repealing a regulation that has caused nothing but disputes at international level and destabilised the production and commercial environment of the countries concerned.
The new agreement will make the global market in bananas more predictable and stable.
European internal legislation will have to be adapted by revoking Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas.
Bananas are the world's fourth most important crop, after rice, wheat and maize, and make a major contribution to food security.
However, in most banana producing countries, production is exclusively for the domestic and occasionally regional markets, with only 20% of global production being traded internationally.
According to the data given in the report, EU consumers bought more than 5.4 million tonnes of bananas in 2008.
I am therefore convinced of the importance of this agreement and confirm my vote in favour of the agreement reached.
On 31 May 2010 the Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas between the European Union and Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela was signed, providing for a gradual reduction in tariff rates on banana imports from those countries.
The signing of the international Geneva Agreement on the banana trade between the EU and Latin American countries, such as Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela, aims to progressively reduce the customs duties on imported bananas by 2017.
The conditions of this Agreement, namely the progressive liberalisation of the sector and opening the European market to banana imports, will inevitably have consequences for European internal production in this sector.
It is urgent for the European Commission to present an impact assessment of the consequences for the outermost regions, such as Madeira, which is where I come from.
I approve the present report, because it takes into account the current need to integrate and increase the functionality and effectiveness of the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
I also approve the idea that implementation of the Directive may increase the rate of waste processed and reported, particularly with regard to the collection rate, responsibility for achieving the collection target and the responsibility of consumers.
Application of the directive will provide clearer rules on collection, processing and recycling standards and also clearer information on the resulting costs of collection and processing.
The recycling of waste in Europe has been accorded an important place in this part-session: with the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment and the resolution on the management of waste in Campania, we have voiced our opinion on a subject that is both technical and political.
The products in question are, in fact, all ones that we use in our everyday lives (telephones, televisions, computers, and so on).
The aim of this directive is to increase this rate and to stop wastage, but it is also a question of making producers more responsible.
I believe that the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a key issue in a globalised economy.
As the report in question points out, waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU.
The WEEE directive currently in force requires the Member States to carry out separated collections of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets.
Experience with the directive has revealed a huge diversity in Member States' interpretation and application of it.
I therefore think it is essential both to work towards better harmonisation of the WEEE Directive and also to reduce the administrative costs to small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, without damaging the level of environmental protection.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
Waste electrical and electronic equipment represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU and we therefore face a range of challenges.
in writing. - (CS) I voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which addresses a very topical issue.
On the other hand, we are tackling the problem of loss of raw materials here, which is one of the key issues in the globalised economy.
According to the available data, 85% of electronic waste is currently recycled, although only 33% of this waste is officially recorded and handled in compliance with the provisions of the EU directive, of course.
The prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) and the reuse and recycling of such waste are essential for sustainable production and consumption.
It is vital to reduce the amount of waste to be disposed of and to contribute to the efficient use of resources.
I call for an improvement in the environmental performance of all operators involved in the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, namely producers, distributors and consumers and, in particular, those operators directly involved in the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
Separate collection is a precondition to ensure specific treatment and recycling of WEEE and is necessary to achieve the chosen level of protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. - (DE) In overall terms, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament supports the waste disposal directive.
However, the subject of photovoltaic modules remains a problem.
For this reason, some of the FDP Members of the European Parliament have abstained from voting on the report.
I also think that disposal costs should be included in a wider system of incentives and penalties, and should also be transparent to those who have to bear them.
Given the objectives and overall structure of the directive, I am in favour of adopting it.
in writing. - (DE) In overall terms, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament supports the waste disposal directive.
However, the subject of photovoltaic modules remains a problem.
in writing. - (RO) I believe that producers too must play an important role at EU level in the process of recovering waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE).
It should be remembered that the recovery of WEEE offers an important source of secondary raw materials, which is a reason why producers should encourage consumers to participate as much as possible in this process.
I voted for this report because I think that electrical and electronic waste management needs to be made more efficient, given the current inappropriate balance in this area and the increasingly rapid growth rate of this waste.
Furthermore, compared with the environmental benefits, this amendment will also have a positive socio-economic impact in terms of creating new jobs in the sector for collecting, treating and recycling used electrical and electronic equipment.
I voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment because it presents proposals that should contribute to reducing administrative charges and strengthen the protection of the environment and human health by preventing or reducing the adverse effects resulting from the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment, with benefits for society.
It is absolutely crucial to establish clear rules and objectives for the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) in order to sustainably consolidate the internal market and improve environmental quality in the European Union, as well as to recover strategic raw materials.
Flows of waste electrical and electronic equipment are increasing in the European Union.
The collection and processing of waste electrical and electronic equipment are important and necessary, bearing in mind not only the potential consequences of this waste for the environment and public health, but also the loss of secondary raw materials if such processes are not performed, which represents a serious problem.
Approximately 85% of the waste electrical and electronic equipment produced is already collected in the EU.
The proposed directive provides for various possible approaches for Member States: from restricting the number of companies authorised to collect waste equipment, through increasing the number of collection points, to forcing producers to create incentive systems for consumers to deliver waste equipment.
Therefore, we voted in favour of this report.
This directive turns over to the Member States the administrative necessity of organising the collection and subsequent processing of very different and complex technical structures which are also very difficult to recycle.
These products are reaching the markets of these countries and they should be subject to the laws of the market there.
Unfortunately, the fact that market mechanisms are not being adequately used in the recycling of waste products means that the draft resolution requires further work.
However, the European Parliament is applying double standards in stipulating that all electrical and electronic equipment, including lamps and small body-care appliances, such as shaving equipment and toothbrushes, should fall within the scope of the directive, when photovoltaic modules are exempted.
Just one third of the 9 million tonnes of electrical and electronic waste produced each year in Europe is collected and treated properly.
The Member States must also ensure that distributors put in place appropriate collection and awareness schemes for certain common types of waste, such as used mobile telephones, not enough of which are recovered today.
We must establish an ambitious electrical and electronic waste management system which involves at the same time public authorities, manufacturers and consumers, all of whom must be reminded of their responsibilities.
in writing. - (DE) In overall terms, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament supports the waste disposal directive.
However, the subject of photovoltaic modules remains a problem.
For this reason, some of the FDP Members of the European Parliament have abstained from voting on the report.
We must consider and promote the appropriate collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment, because decisive measures help to promote balanced economic growth without harming the environment and clean and healthy surroundings for our citizens.
Too many appliances either lie forgotten and unused in drawers or cupboards or end up, illegally, in the domestic waste bin.
The Member States must use all available means to achieve ambitious collection rates, although the objectives outlined will not be easy to achieve.
If we want to maintain a high level of consumption in the future, we must act more responsibly with natural capital that remains and not waste it.
in writing. - (DE) In overall terms, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament supports the waste disposal directive.
However, the subject of photovoltaic modules remains a problem.
For this reason, some of the FDP Members of the European Parliament have abstained from voting on the report.
The proposal for a directive put to the vote today relates to the amendment of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which requires the Member States to carry out separated collections of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets, including a 65% WEEE collection rate to be achieved by 2016.
As we all know, the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a key issue in a globalised economy.
Moreover, it is a responsibility that applies to all market operators, from public authorities to consumers and producers.
Currently, not only in the European Union, but also in the world at large, there is a problem with organising the recycling of waste equipment.
in writing. - (NL) The delegation of the Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) in the European Parliament has today voted against a number of amendments to the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE).
We are against measures which impose obligations on small shops to collect, without limitation, small appliances without the consumer being required to purchase a new, similar appliance in return.
in writing. - I welcome this report which introduces new targets to stop toxic chemicals from discarded electrical items seeping into the environment.
We call for the creation of new targets for the collection, recycling and reuse of waste, part of which is of interest due to its recoverable raw material content.
Consequently, this waste must be treated and not exported to developing countries, often in dangerous conditions.
I voted for this legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast) because I am in favour of implementing measures to make progress with the sustainability of production and consumption of electrical and electronic equipment.
Today, only a third of this waste is collected and treated properly.
The proposed text enables us to tackle several aspects so as to ensure the proper disposal of electrical and electronic waste, whether it be in terms of the collection rate (85% of collected waste), the collection target, the delegation of responsibility to consumers, the equipment type, or collection, treatment and recycling standards.
in writing. - The S&amp;D Group and I voted in favour, because it is obvious that the amount of waste from electronic and electrical equipment is constantly increasing.
In order not to squander EU funds it is necessary to offer countries which supply electrical and electronic devices to the EU either to pay a special fee for utilisation at the moment of selling a device or take on an obligation to accept back old devices meant to be re-used/recycled.
This can significantly harmonise the process of reuse/recycling and delivery of devices, and will allow not a return to this question in future.
The amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment is constantly increasing.
In order to raise awareness of this among the Member States, the business community and individual consumers, the EU has specified collection targets, which the new directive aims to amend.
I have not voted in favour of the report, because, in my opinion, this represents excessive interference in the powers of the individual countries.
The purpose of the report on the revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was to encourage the separated collection, recovery and recycling of this kind of waste.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this directive, because I believe that the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment is another challenge that we have to overcome.
Unfortunately, my country Lithuania currently lags far behind the EU average as regards the disposal of WEEE.
The entry into force of the new directive, which should give us a better system for collecting, re-using and recycling, is still some time away, but I hope that it will both provide new possibilities for businesses and will reduce trouble for the end consumer.
The report on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment is intended to regulate at EU level the collection, treatment and recycling of this type of equipment waste and to lay down quantities and percentages.
in writing. - (DE) I share the concerns of the Member States in respect of this Commission proposal.
Another challenge is to reduce the level of loss of materials - their recovery means that industry regains valuable secondary materials - and the necessity of intensifying the collection and proper treatment of waste.
Therefore, it is difficult not to agree with the rapporteur that it is the Member States which are responsible for correctly implementing the directive and establishing effective control procedures for the storage and processing of waste equipment.
It is clearly incumbent on the Member States, the producers of new equipment and consumers to try to achieve higher collection rates by every conceivable means.
I voted in favour of adopting the report, which is designed to increase the rate of separated collection, to reduce the loss of waste equipment and to prevent illegal shipment, and also to ensure appropriate high-quality treatment of this kind of waste.
Spinning around in this wheel, we face two major problems - resources and waste.
The new EU Member States will need to make a particular effort.
If we want to maintain a high level of consumption in the future, we must act more responsibly with the natural capital that remains and not waste it.
Our basic ambition is for high-level legal treatment (given that, at present, just one-third of electronic waste in the EU is subject to legal collection and treatment), proper collection, recycling and re-use of the valuable substances contained in waste and action to prevent illegal shipments of waste, which is an obligation incumbent primarily upon the Member States.
I voted in favour, having regard to the fact that the Consultative Working Party of the Legal Services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission concluded, in its opinion, that the proposal in question does not comprise any substantive amendments other than those identified as such therein and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier act with those substantive amendments, that the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing text, without any change in its substance.
Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU and we therefore face a range of challenges.
On the one hand we need to address the environmental and health consequences if this equipment is not properly treated and disposed of and, on the other, there is a serious problem of loss of raw materials.
Stepping up the collection and proper treatment of this waste in accordance with the directive thus constitutes a major challenge.
The proposed amendments are designed to increase the rate of separated collection, to reduce loss of waste equipment within the 'WEEE system', while preventing illegal shipment, and also to ensure that WEEE receives appropriate, high-quality treatment.
in writing. - Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU and we therefore face a range of challenges: 9 million tonnes now, growing to 12.3 million by 2020.
I voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive recasting Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE).
WEEE represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the EU, and it is essential to step up the collection and proper treatment of this waste.
Indeed, we need to avoid the serious consequences that improper disposal of WEEE can have in terms of damage to the environment and public health and loss of raw materials.
The changes now proposed are therefore welcome, since they are designed precisely to increase the rate of separated collection, reduce loss of waste equipment within the 'WEEE system', prevent illegal shipment and ensure that WEEE receives appropriate, high-quality treatment.
in writing. - (DE) In general, I support the waste disposal directive.
in writing. - Today's vote is a welcome step to tightening up EU rules on electric waste, notably ensuring more effective collection and treatment of WEEE.
The EP has voted to redress the low collection rates, improper treatment and illegal exports of WEEE to third countries.
With this vote the 2003 directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) is to be updated, addressing such topics as the consistent application of the relevant provisions, the simplification of rules and the reduction of administrative costs.
The aim of the text that has been adopted is not only to recover precious raw materials but also to stop the illegal shipment of electronic waste out of the EU, which carries health and environmental risks when the waste is treated under substandard conditions.
in writing. - (DE) In overall terms, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) in the European Parliament supports the waste disposal directive.
However, the subject of photovoltaic modules remains a problem.
New targets for recycling, reusing and collecting waste include an 85% collection rate for Member States.
The updated directive will also harmonise Member States' reporting and regulation measures, in order to simplify administrative procedures and cut costs for companies.
in writing. - (DE) I naturally support the idea of improving the levels of collection of electrical equipment throughout Europe, not least because it will enable us to reuse scarce raw materials more effectively.
I would like to highlight the fact that my home country of Germany is in a particularly good position in this respect and has put in place balanced recycling solutions for businesses and consumers.
The Commission also did not want to introduce any changes.
For this reason, I have not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (RO) The recent events in Tunisia have raised for discussion again the effectiveness of the EU's neighbourhood policy in the Mediterranean basin.
The European Parliament's resolution sends a powerful signal in this respect.
Unfortunately, the citizens' battle for respect for their rights did not receive European support due to the lack of a specific mechanism in the association agreement.
The Tunisian people need support in developing properly working state institutions.
At EU level, the case of Tunisia urgently necessitates a change of priorities with regard to third countries.
Respect for human rights should form the basis for political dialogue.
The EU must maintain its consistent message so as not to lose its credibility.
It was the only international organisation to introduce clauses relating to respect for human rights and democratic values into its relations with Tunisia.
With this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament is making its contribution to what must be the European position.
The European Union must now meet the legitimate expectations of the Tunisian people.
Europe must prioritise its relations with those entities that respect fundamental freedoms.
The EU and Tunisia were in the process of formulating the Action Plan for the period 2011-2016, and this process will require both partners to commit themselves to achieving greater progress on all the issues involved, in particular that of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The European Parliament condemns the repressive measures and the disproportionate force employed by the security forces, but gives its strong support to the democratic process in the country.
It is therefore very important to create the necessary conditions for the holding of elections, within a time frame which gives all opposition forces and all the media time to organise at national level, for a new parliamentary assembly with the task of drawing up a democratic constitution which strikes a proper balance between the powers of the executive and the legislature and the independence of the judiciary.
Parliament hopes that all democratic forces, which respect freedom of conscience, arrangements for the democratic handover of power and freedom of speech, will be able to take part in that election.
The Egyptian people are out on the streets at the moment to make their voices heard, just a few weeks after a similar scene in Tunisia.
The situation in the Arab countries is being compared by analysts to that in Central and Eastern Europe in the 1990s.
The European Union must express its solidarity with the peoples in the Arab countries who are on the streets now or have been.
With its democratic tradition, the EU must condemn the acts of repression and disproportionate use of force by law enforcement, which has led to fatalities.
The democratic process in these countries where the situation is still uncertain must be supported with conviction.
The EU's High Representative must play an active role in assessing the needs of these countries which are undergoing radical transformations because they do not have the practical experience of democracy.
The Arab world has been shaken for a month and a half, from Tunisia to Yemen, by a shockwave or wind of freedom.
Tunisia actually offers not just a model for those wishing to see the fall of Arab autocrats, but also continues to provide a precedent which can help us understand subsequent developments in a complex eastern equation.
Europe cannot, in my view, remain indifferent to the strength of the intense popular protest movement that is sweeping through several countries in North Africa and the Middle East.
Because I realise that Islamic extremism has emerged as a political - and not religious - response to these problems, fed by and as a response to social exclusion, I hope that these peoples will soon prove that everyone can live together in this region in peace and mutual respect, irrespective of religious faith, political choice or ethnicity.
I voted in favour of this resolution since it expresses solidarity with the people of Tunisia, who, motivated by legitimate aspirations of democracy and improved living conditions, have brought their country to an historic political watershed.
Television companies with global cover, like the CNN and Al-Jazeera, and the social networks point to the first steps of a global civil society capable of following events, such as those in Tunisia and Egypt, in real time.
Therefore, I cannot but welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution on the political situation in Tunisia, in which Parliament extends its solidarity to the Tunisian people.
Despite the repressive measures and the use of force by the security forces, Tunisians have, through their demonstrations, succeeded in putting an end to the dictatorial regime of President Ben Ali.
However, I am disappointed by the European Union's failure to develop a more consistent and effective external policy towards some of its partners, so that it could contribute to bringing down the totalitarian regimes that still persist, like the one that was in power in Tunisia.
In the resolution, we also highlight the need, should the Tunisian people so request, to provide the necessary financial aid both to complete the reforms already introduced and to satisfy the economic and social needs of the people of Tunisia.
It is not for the European Union to say who must or who must not govern these countries.
in writing. - It is sad that the EU has taken so long to address the political and social unrest in the Middle East - that in Tunisia and recently that in Egypt.
Ultimately this issue must be addressed if we want to have any meaningful influence and relevance in international relations, especially in connection with a region as close to us as this one.
in writing. - (DE) I support this motion for a resolution, despite the fact that I believe that the democratic forces in these countries need more regular support at an earlier stage.
Many EU Member States have problems with doing this, often because their economic interests are at stake.
In voting for this motion for a resolution on Tunisia, I am clearly expressing my full support for the Tunisian people and for the historic democratic revolution that they have started.
The Union must now provide all the technical, legal and financial assistance necessary for the smooth organisation of free elections in Tunisia.
We must also urgently review our neighbourhood policy with third countries and make the inclusion of human rights clauses an essential condition of all our trade agreements.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution on Tunisia to express my solidarity with the wish of Tunisian people to achieve freedom of expression and restore free elections.
It is alarming that the EU has been caught by surprise when massive popular demonstrations against the previous authoritarian regime started.
May these events remind us that stability of economic and political relations with our partners can be based only upon genuine democracy and full exercise of civil rights.
In recent months the European Union has examined its neighbourhood policy, emphasising the distinction between the political objectives pursued by the Member States of the Mediterranean and those of Central, Eastern and Northern Europe.
I fully support the objectives contained in the motion for a resolution tabled today in this House; they are objectives which the European Parliament as a whole wishes to pursue with regard to the situation in Tunisia.
Lastly, we call on the High Representative to take the decision to intervene in support of the population via a task force, which Parliament should also be involved in organising.
The European Parliament has quickly adopted a position on the situation in Tunisia in view of the situation in the entire region.
As well as Tunisia, we must keep in mind the development of the situation in Egypt and other countries in the region.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution on Tunisia.
I believe it to be vital that Parliament shows itself unequivocally on the side of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in Tunisia and elsewhere in the Middle East.
I welcome the demonstrations in Tunisia, which have led the Tunisian people to regain their freedom and put an end to the regime established in 1987 by the now deposed president, Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali.
I also believe we must examine ways to help Tunisia, including financially, as well as the support and assistance that European civil society can give to Tunisian civil society, particularly to human rights associations and the social partners.
Consequently, I encourage the interim government in its efforts to organise democratic elections in which all political sides are represented.
We can start the discussion about the financial or other type of support only after Tunis has performed all the recommendations of the OSCE, the European Parliament, the European Union and the European Council.
I voted in favour taking into consideration the fact that financial support to Tunis should take place only after free elections and under the strict control of the institutions responsible for financial support.
I have voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Tunisia, because it expresses the European Parliament's attitude to the events in Tunisia in a clear and balanced way.
It is essential that the transitional government organises elections as soon as possible, so that the country can move from authoritarian rule to stable democratic government.
The resolution also calls on Baroness Ashton to take rapid action and to provide Tunisia with the EU aid it needs.
in writing. - (DE) The European Parliament motion for a resolution on the situation in Tunisia supports the efforts of the Tunisian people to move towards democracy.
In view of the recent events which have taken place in Tunisia, I would like to express my solidarity with the people of that country.
I fully endorse the appeal made by the European Union.
Unfortunately, the events in Tunisia have yet again revealed the weakness of Union foreign policy.
In its joint external actions, the Union should call greater attention to issues related to the protection of human rights and democracy.
in writing. - I express my solidarity with the Tunisian people, who, prompted by a desire for better social conditions and easier access to employment, brought their country to an historic political turning point.
The events in Tunisia also rocked the foundation of undemocratic regimes in other countries.
I hope that all democratic forces which pledge to respect pluralism, freedom of conscience and arrangements for the democratic handover of power will be able to take part in the election of a new parliamentary assembly.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Tunisia so as to express, together with my fellow Members, the European Parliament's position on the 'Jasmine revolution'.
The partnership between Tunisia and the European Union, the relations with the North African countries within the Union for the Mediterranean and all the neighbourhood relations must be effectively brought to the fore so as to enable the people of Tunisia, with whom we stand shoulder to shoulder, to achieve an orderly and peaceful transition towards an effective democratic system.
EU assistance must serve as a warning so as to ensure a proper electoral process and to guarantee respect for human rights, the aim being to support and advise the people of Tunisia in order to prevent any drifts towards fundamentalism.
The EU certainly must not fail to honour its commitment to the cause of democracy and human rights.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on Tunisia, as did all the political groups, in a bid to send a message of support to this country.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the current situation in Tunisia.
I firmly support the necessary democratic process that Tunisia will undergo and stress the importance of creating appropriate conditions for elections to be held, within a time period that will allow all the opposition forces and all the media to organise themselves nationally and create the democratic basis for a new society.
I welcome Parliament's request to the Commission and the European Investment Bank to make provision for support for Tunisia in the form of loans with interest-rate subsidies in order to enable the Tunisian economy to diversify and offer young Tunisians the prospect of skilled jobs, as part of a genuine development contract to foster local and foreign productive investment.
I have given my support to this motion for a resolution, and join in expressing solidarity with the Tunisian people, who, prompted by legitimate democratic aspirations and a desire for better social conditions and easier access to employment, have brought their country to a historic political watershed.
In voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in Tunisia, I want first of all to express my solidarity with the Tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and the will to improve their country's social situation, have brought it to an historic political turning point.
I also urge the European Union to learn from these events and to review its policy of supporting democracy and human rights by making their strict observance an essential condition of EU cooperation with third countries.
The disturbances taking place in Tunisia over recent days have already resulted in at least 35 confirmed deaths.
For their part, all the governments of Europe, including the Swiss, must agree to cooperate with a view to returning the money and property acquired by President Ben Ali's family.
in writing. - (PL) I am in favour of this motion for a resolution, and in particular the provisions regarding the very specific instruments at our disposal for influencing the systemic changes going on in the country.
I also think that access to drinking water and a balanced diet, as well as free access to healthcare services play an important role in improving living conditions and in the battle against poverty and tuberculosis.
In view of these considerations, I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on the tuberculosis vaccine.
The EU must fulfil its responsibility to reach the UN Millennium Goal of combating tuberculosis and of eradicating it before 2015.
I voted in favour of this important motion for a resolution and I agree that combating tuberculosis should be included in the Europe 2020 strategy.
As stated in the resolution, the Commission and the Member States must make every effort to ensure that a proper portion of the money available for health care reaches poor people in developing countries and every effort must be made to ensure that health care services in poor areas are improved and supported.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, because this disease remains one of the main causes of death in the world, with nearly 2 million people dying as a result of it every year.
It would also contribute towards implementing the Europe 2020 objectives and achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
This implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding for the vaccine package.
Therefore, the European Commission and the Member States should stand by their funding commitments and do everything necessary to ensure that funds allocated to health care also reach the most impoverished and vulnerable people in the country.
Vaccinating against TB and investing in research aimed at developing new treatments for this disease are the only solutions to eradicate it by 2050.
According to data from the Romanian authorities, 30 000 new cases of tuberculosis appear in Romania every year.
One possible explanation for detecting this large number of cases every year is precisely the increase in the level of progress through the emergence of new prevention programmes, the majority of which are funded by the EU.
There has also been a downward trend in the mortality figures recorded for tuberculosis in Romania, from 10.7% in 2002 to 7.6% in 2008.
in writing. - (CS) I supported the motion for a resolution on combating tuberculosis for a whole range of reasons.
Personally, I consider this way of combating tuberculosis to be an expression of the solidarity of European citizens and an attempt to limit entirely unnecessary deaths resulting simply from a lack of funding for vaccinations in less developed countries.
Vaccines are the cheapest and most effective public health measure for protecting Europeans from infectious diseases, but it is also important for healthcare to reach developing countries, so as to contribute to increasing life expectancy and to combating poverty.
As I said, there has been some progress and we are on the right track, but the EU must redouble its efforts and call for more coordinated action to integrate European research into fighting poverty-related diseases.
In developing countries in particular, this disease is still fatal in many cases, particularly when associated with HIV/AIDS.
Therefore, it is important for Europe to subscribe to scientific research and support TBVI (the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative) so that large-scale vaccination can have a positive effect towards the elimination of tuberculosis by 2050.
This joint motion for a resolution, replacing the motions by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, is intended to promote the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative (TBVI) with a view to meeting the targets defined by the United Nations in the Millennium Development Goals.
These include reversing the trend in the number of patients with tuberculosis by 2015 and eliminating the disease by 2050.
Improving the state of health of the world population is one of the European Union's major concerns.
Although tuberculosis can be said to be controlled in Europe, it still causes the deaths of millions of people in developing countries, in association with other contagious diseases.
It is essential to pool political and financial efforts in order to put a swift end to this worldwide scourge.
I therefore welcome the approval of this initiative to eradicate this contagious disease, which even in the 21st century is still causing many deaths, especially in developing countries.
I do find it surprising, however, that a text which deplores the inadequate health services in developing countries should choose to overlook one of the greatest scandals of our time: the plundering of doctors from these countries by wealthier countries, which have given up training their own doctors sufficiently in the belief that they can cut back on their social protection.
The presence of tuberculosis in the world continues to be a cause for concern.
However, it appears that only a large-scale vaccine can avert the threat that this disease poses to the health of many people living in developing countries.
Hence I supported this resolution in order to call for a greater long-term investment from the Member States and the European Commission so that they have the means to combat tuberculosis, in particular through research and innovation.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, since we must combat tuberculosis, because this disease kills nearly two million people worldwide each year, and almost a third of the world's population is infected by it.
Tuberculosis is heavily linked to social and economic problems, such as poverty, unemployment, alcoholism, drug addiction and HIV/AIDS, as well as the inadequate and poor state of healthcare systems in poor countries and delays in diagnosis.
I am pleased that the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative model has been drawn up, because all patients suffering from this disease worldwide will be able to benefit from the results of research and work activities.
Tuberculosis is, unfortunately, one of the main causes of death in the world.
Parliament's aim, in tabling this motion for a resolution, was to invite the European Union to pursue the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which provide for halting the increase in the incidence of this serious disease by 2015.
Global TB levels are still unacceptably high and I welcome new means of funding the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative for a large-scale vaccination campaign.
Despite being practically extinct in developed countries, tuberculosis remains a threat in poor and underdeveloped countries, particularly in Africa, where it continues to kill millions of people every year.
Only a vaccination plan at global level can bring an end to this scourge and make the total elimination of this disease by 2050 a reality, as part of achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The cases reported in the United Kingdom and Ireland in summer 2010 also remind us that this disease remains a serious problem for the European Union.
Thanks to the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative (TBVI), it will be possible to create effective vaccines that are affordable for developing countries and adapted to emerging countries and Europe.
The European Commission is the largest donor of official development aid, providing EUR 49 billion per year.
We must find other sources of funding, such as the establishment by the Member States and/or the European Union of a financial guarantee to enable funding to be obtained from the European Investment Bank.
in writing. - The tuberculosis vaccine programme is very important, but what is the European Parliament going to do before 2015?
If a patient stops taking the standard drugs for the normal form of tuberculosis before the end of the six-month period, the result is not only severe side effects, but also resistance.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative.
It is therefore necessary for us to not only take vaccination into account, but also long-term programmes to reduce these factors.
I am convinced that vaccines are an essential means of combating tuberculosis, together with better testing, and that this implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding.
I therefore take the view that tuberculosis vaccination ought to be carried out as a priority in clinics in developing countries and that EU assistance should support developing countries' internal efforts to build human capacity.
This specific motion for a resolution, which was supported by all the political groups, follows the increase in this disease in Europe and the United States of America over the last ten years.
This implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding.
The EU, through the European Commission, should explore innovative funding channels, such as the establishment by the Member States and/or the Union of a financial guarantee to enable funding for the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative to be obtained from the European Investment Bank, with a view to guaranteeing finance and research in this area.
Despite the progress made, the incidence of tuberculosis at global level is still a major cause for concern, as this disease remains one of the main causes of death in the world, especially in developing countries.
Research and funding in this area should therefore be increased.
It is important to mobilise resources for the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, as only a large-scale vaccination campaign can contribute to halting the increase in the incidence of tuberculosis by 2015, reversing the trend and eliminating this disease by 2050, as provided for in the United Nations Milliennium Development Goals and in the World Health Organisation's Stop Tuberculosis programme.
Tuberculosis kills almost 2 million people each year, mainly in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia.
Above all, however, it stresses the need to implement a large-scale vaccination programme, which is the only way of achieving one of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG 6) and eradicating the disease by 2050.
At the same time, it is essential for pharmaceutical research efforts to focus on this neglected and 'uneconomical' disease.
in writing. - With this resolution, the EP firstly underlines the fact that only a vaccination programme involving a large-scale vaccination campaign could have a positive impact in terms of achieving MDG 6 after 2015, and in particular the eradication of tuberculosis by 2050.
Secondly, it considers vaccines to be an essential means of combating tuberculosis, together with better - reliable, low-cost and soundly based - testing, as well as more effective diagnosis and treatment, and that this implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding.
Thirdly, it calls on the Commission to explore innovative funding channels, such as the establishment by the Member States and/or the Union of a financial guarantee to enable funding for the TBVI to be obtained from the European Investment Bank, with a view to securing finance for research in developing countries into neglected diseases and those involving little profit potential.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative.
Health services in the majority of developing countries come nowhere near meeting the needs of local populations.
Governments must fulfil their duty of ensuring public healthcare services for the entire population, since this is an elementary right enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
In my opinion, it is our moral duty as Europeans not only to assume some of the responsibility for research and for seeking new cures, but also to assist poor countries to train health workers and to develop at least a basic healthcare network.
It is in the interests of preserving our humanity that I am unable to support the approved text of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - I voted for the closure of the CEPOL accounts for which I had refused discharge last year because this is the normal procedure that should happen every year immediately there is clarity from the European Court of Auditors' report that there is no need for further adjustment, independent of the fact that discharge has or has not been granted.
Therefore, the present resolution only aims to close the corresponding accounts in accordance with Article 5(2)(b) of Annex VI to the European Parliament Rules of Procedure.
I recall that, on 7 October 2010, Parliament adopted the decision not to discharge the 2008 accounts of the European Police College by 618 votes to 0, with seven abstentions.
This decision to close the 2008 accounts does not equate to their being discharged, but is only a technical measure resulting from Parliament's Rules of Procedure, under which if accounts are not discharged there must be a formal vote on whether to close them in a subsequent sitting.
I therefore voted in favour of this decision.
On 7 October 2010, Parliament adopted by 618 votes to 0, with 7 abstentions, a decision to refuse to grant discharge to the Director of the European Police College for the financial year 2008.
The decision, of which I voted in favour, is a technical measure designed to close the accounts for the financial year in question, not the granting of discharge.
It is being taken during this part-session because I and my colleagues from the Committee on Budgetary Control wished to hold a hearing with the Director of CEPOL, the Chair of the Governing Board and the President of the European Commission in order to obtain more details and clarification, in particular with regard to the accounting corrections made in July 2010 for the year 2008 and to the responsiveness of the Governing Board.
Therefore, this resolution aims only to close these accounts, pursuant to Article 5(2)(b) of Annex VI to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament.
in writing. - Inefficient use by the Police College of funds allocated to it has already led to disruption in financial support for small agencies.
There are cases of inappropriate use of funds which border on financial crimes.
All these transgressions may happen when there is not enough scrutiny from the Commission.
The European Police College (CEPOL) was established in 2000.
CEPOL helps national bodies to work together to prevent and combat crime.
In addition, it works closely with police services from third countries.
The European Police College (CEPOL) brings together senior police officers from across Europe, with the aim of encouraging cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime and maintenance of public safety, law and order.
For the above reasons, and particularly in the light of the positive opinions of the Court of Auditors and the Council, I am voting in favour of the closing of CEPOL's accounts for the financial year 2008.
Following the decision of 7 October 2010 not to discharge the European Police College's accounts for the financial year 2008 because of problems detected with its administration, we have now moved onto closure of the accounts, pursuant to Article 5(2)(b) of Annex VI to the Rules of Procedure.
in writing. - It is crucial that the new authorities and their chairs carry out their functions in the interest of Europe's citizens.
To this end, the Greens pushed for greater transparency as regards the relations between industry representatives and the authorities and their chairs, and we are happy that all three candidates have committed in writing to ensuring this.
Shadowy lobbying relations will undermine the credibility and effectiveness of these authorities and it is important that they carry out their work in the utmost transparency.
in writing. - (LT) As the vote by Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control demonstrated, many people were unhappy with the way the European Police College managed its finances in 2008 and previous years.
However, now it is important to look to the future.
General Banfi, the new head of the European Police College, has taken over a difficult situation and must regain the trust of Parliament and taxpayers.
Furthermore, I believe that the ongoing discussions on the College's ineffective management of the budget and human resources are only diverting our attention from a greater problem - the lack of integrity and professionalism in police and security bodies throughout Europe, including Lithuania.
What happens to the European Police College in future is not important, but all Member States must ensure that these objectives are achieved.
in writing. - I voted to close the accounts for the European Police College as I believe it is important to draw a line under the discharge procedure for 2008.
in writing. - I voted for the motion for a resolution to oppose the appointment of the Chair of the European Banking Authority, not because I found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because I object in principle to the creation of this new authority.
The rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the City of London and will contribute to the loss of jobs in Britain.
However, many other steps need to be taken to prevent truly immoral situations such as those that took place in the recent past - which have damaged economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system - from reoccurring.
I am therefore voting in favour of the choice of Andrea Enria as first Chair of the European Banking Authority, and wish him a term of high quality in all senses.
In the new central European Supervisory Authority, national interests are represented by the bodies that supervise the financial markets, in the case of Austria, for example, the FMA, which are members of the new authority and have voting powers.
Therefore, I support the report, as in my opinion this will result in costly duplicate structures, which is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that the individual supervisory bodies are based in different cities.
In addition, financial supervisory authorities only represent part of the overall solution.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the Chair of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, not because I found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because I object in principle to the creation of this new authority.
The rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the City of London and will contribute to the loss of jobs in Britain.
Naturally, I am pleased that a Portuguese, Gabriel Rodrigo Ribeiro Tavares Bernardino, has been nominated as first Chair of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.
In November 2010, the European Parliament and the Council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious series of legislative proposals to reinforce supervision of the financial markets in Europe.
The candidates have had hearings before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has given its approval.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution to oppose the appointment of the Chair of the European Securities and Markets Authority, not because I found any deficiency in the individual appointed, but because I object in principle to the creation of this new authority.
The rule book they will concoct will undoubtedly not suit the City of London and will contribute to the loss of jobs in Britain.
Maijoor as the first Chair of the European Securities and Markets Authority in the hope of an active, attentive and successful mandate.
The creation of the European Financial Markets Authority is essential to achieving an effective supervision model.
However, many other steps need to be taken to prevent the reoccurrence of the truly immoral situations that have arisen in the recent past.
I am therefore voting in favour of the choice of Steven J.
Maijoor as first Chair of the European Securities and Markets Authority, and wish him a term of high quality in all senses.
The financial supervisory authorities may be more useful than many other EU institutions.
Supervision at a European level should involve, among other things, coordination of the national supervisory bodies.
In addition, an efficient early warning system is needed, together with an appropriate supportive contribution from speculators and a discussion without taboos.
I voted against and so I am very pleased with the outcome of this morning's vote, in which Parliament has given the green light to the appointment of the Chairperson of the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
In November 2010, the European Parliament and the Council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious series of legislative proposals to reinforce supervision of the financial markets in Europe.
The candidates have had hearings before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has given its approval.
There was total confusion during the votes held in plenary today, Thursday 3 February 2011, on the appointment of the chairpersons of the European Supervisory Authorities.
In the name of equality, a fundamental value upheld by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I cannot possibly vote in favour of such appointments.
in writing. - The 2008 financial crisis clearly showed the need for European Supervisory Authorities to coordinate the regulation and supervision of the finance sector in the European Union.
To maintain public confidence and trust in these new Authorities, they must be able to do their job in an independent, fair and objective way.
It is essential to ensure that these fledgling institutions are not bullied into weakening or undermining key rules to reform the finance sector.
I voted against, for the sole reason that I did not know the name of this candidate for high office.
Perhaps something has changed in our world when Members of the European Parliament have no right to know the name and CV of a person who wishes to hold office in the European Union.
If three new EU agencies based in London, Paris and Frankfurt, together with a risk advisory board at the European Central Bank (ECB), are to be established, the result is likely to be confusion regarding the powers of these bodies.
The financial supervisory authorities may be more useful than many other EU institutions, such as the so-called European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
The three new financial supervisory authorities only represent part of the overall solution.
In addition, the Member States need to change their attitudes.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the report and against the candidate for the position of chair of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority.
In November 2010, the European Parliament and the Council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious series of legislative proposals to reinforce supervision of the financial markets in Europe.
The European Parliament has an important role in nominating the heads of these institutions: this House is competent to hold hearings with the chairs nominated by the national supervisors, on the basis of a shortlist compiled by the Commission, and can oppose their nomination.
The candidates have had hearings before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has given its approval.
The Commission and Council share the responsibility for this situation and it is important that lessons are learned for the next round of appointments.
These new authorities must provide rigorous and effective oversight of the financial sector to avoid the mistakes of the past and it is regrettable that the status of candidates was not higher.
The Greens were particularly unhappy with the candidate for the chairmanship of the new insurance and pension authority, Gabriel Bernardino.
Consequently, one can only imagine that there are other issues behind their choices which demonstrate the lack of sensitivities to this European project.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in the province of Campania, because I believe that, in the context of the waste management crisis, it is essential to implement the derogation from the regulations and controls, which includes, for example, exemption from conducting environmental impact assessments and the non-application of legislation on public contracts.
I also believe it essential that fulfilling EU waste legislation in Campania and in other regions of Europe demands a major effort to reduce the volume of waste and tip the balance towards the prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling of waste by providing adequate infrastructure, and that greater emphasis must be placed on the recycling of organic waste, particularly in this markedly agricultural region.
We understand the Commission's reasons, but the waste crisis in Campania will not be solved by imposing financial penalties and nor will it be solved by suspending the payment of EUR 135 million in contributions for the period 2006-2013, plus a further EUR 10.5 million for the period 2000-2006, which was intended for the funding of waste-related projects.
The new regional government, which was only installed in June last year, has unfortunately inherited 15 years of neglect and delays.
Even so, it has already launched an integrated waste collection and disposal plan, which also includes putting the necessary facilities in place and reaching agreements with five regions of Italy for the temporary transfer of waste until the plan becomes fully operational.
Future action to be taken must focus on transparency and dialogue between the people and the local authorities, on making citizens accept responsibility for the disposal of domestic waste, and also on better use of organic waste.
Whereas the vote on the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was rather technical, the vote on the motion for a resolution concerning the waste crisis in Campania is eminently political.
The health and environmental situation in that region is already very alarming.
During the last part-session in Strasbourg, the Commission took the floor in the debate in response to the oral questions from the House on the waste crisis in Campania.
The Italian authorities have already provided the Commission with a plan to restore legality.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in Campania.
Compliance with EU law on waste in Campania calls for very energetic efforts to cut the volume of waste and tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling.
Waste management has recently represented a problematic issue in many regions of Italy and, in particular, in the region of Campania.
There is an urgent need to identify a sustainable solution through the application of a waste management plan.
It is important to reduce the volume of waste and tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in Campania since it underlines the importance of this issue in environmental terms, particularly with regard to the protection of Natura 2000 sites.
It is necessary to find a sustainable solution to the waste crisis in the province of Campania, the most complex situation of all the episodes of problematic waste management in Italian regions.
It is necessary for the EU criteria to be met, in particular the implementation of a waste management plan in accordance with Directive 2008/98/EC.
Public awareness needs to be raised and mobilised regarding proper waste management as a decisive factor in protecting the environment and promoting the quality of life of both current generations and future ones.
However, the efforts and ability of local authorities need to be acknowledged: they took extraordinary measures during the last urban waste crisis, in autumn 2010, in order to comply with the 4 March 2010 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
Something that the waste crisis in Campania does demonstrate is the danger of submitting environmental management - in its many aspects - to the simple logic of profit.
Our 17 amendments, in fact, were aimed at softening some of the points made in this motion for a resolution, which was too hard on Italy without, amongst other things, taking into account a whole series of determining factors in the development of this crisis situation or the efforts made in recent months by the national and regional governments to resolve the crisis once and for all.
The resolution explicitly mentions and criticises measures introduced by the current government, but forgets that the current Mayor of Naples, Mrs Iervolino, belongs to the centre-left and, worse still, forgets the long reign of Mr Bassolino, who was Mayor of Naples from 1993 to 2000 and Governor of Campania from 2000 to 2010, as well as special commissioner for the waste crisis for many years.
The motion for a resolution tabled by the Europe of Freedom and Democracy Group is aimed at ensuring that the authorities of the Campania Region are held responsible for their actions.
The waste cycle and its attendant problems are the responsibility of the local authorities, in accordance with current legislation.
The Italian left has made the same mistake again and voted against Italy, manipulating Parliament for its own political ends.
This attitude of theirs has fooled many Members from other countries who cannot even conceive of anyone going against their own country.
That is why, with support from our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), we have voted against this factious, politicised and aggressive resolution.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the joint resolution on Campania, which calls on the Italian Government to treat the matter of the waste crisis in the region with the urgency and seriousness that it deserves.
Unfortunately, the Commission had no other option but to withhold EU structural funds intended for Campania, funds which will only be released once the waste management plan for Campania becomes compliant and consistent with EU law.
Today's vote was strongly opposed by Italy and by the majority of the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who supported the fight against the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in Campania tabled by the left-wing groups.
We have been forced to witness the exploitation of the crisis on the basis of a subjective document that contains false information and whose chief aim is to conceal the efforts made by the national government and the local authorities, which have been faced with an unpleasant situation due to the way in which the region was misgoverned in previous years.
A great deal has already been done, and huge efforts will continue to be made to ensure that the people of Naples and the whole of Campania can once again enjoy the right to a healthy environment and a decent quality of life.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution, which highlights not just the environmental consequences but the importance of tackling corruption.
The waste crisis in Campania and other regions of Italy clearly shows the dangers of entrusting environmental management to private companies, whose sole objective is profit.
The waste crisis afflicting Campania and other regions of Italy illustrates the danger of having our environment managed by companies that are driven solely by profit.
The waste crisis in Campania has been unsustainable for a number of years and goes against the rules adopted by all EU Member States.
It is therefore necessary to quickly implement a waste management plan under which, in accordance with Directive 2008/98/EC, respect for the waste cycle hierarchy is fundamental.
The European Parliament must be kept informed of how the situation develops, especially regarding the implementation of a waste management plan, pursuant to the 4 March 2010 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and to EU legislation.
in writing.- (HU) The waste crisis afflicting the province of Campania has caused serious problems in Italy recently.
Consequently, the observation of EU legislation on waste management must be strictly enforced in the region.
The Italian authorities must ensure that all the necessary measures are taken to guarantee that waste is properly collected, separated and treated.
However, a sustainable solution to the problem can only be found through the active involvement of citizens in the entire process.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I agree that a solution should be decided on urgently that is sustainable and respects EU rules, with the application of a waste management plan under which respect for the waste cycle hierarchy is fundamental.
in writing. - I abstained on the resolution.
The waste crisis in Italy, and particularly in the province of Campania, has been going on for years.
No effort is being made to reduce the amount of rubbish being generated or to ensure that the waste which is produced is disposed of properly or even recycled.
I have not voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, because in my opinion it is primarily a statement of opposition to the right-wing government and does not take an unbiased approach to the problem.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in Campania, long-standing problem that it is, because I do not believe that the responsibility for the current situation can be attributed to one government alone.
I therefore endorse the resolution on the waste crisis in Campania tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and I support the request made to the Commission to release the European funds set aside to help manage and dispose of the waste, which were frozen following the launch of the infringement procedure against Italy.
At the same time, I hope that Italy will finally be in position to adopt long-term strategic measures in line with European legislation, for the good of the people, first and foremost, but also for the country's reputation throughout the world.
The serious situation prevailing in Campania today because of the waste problem is due to three very specific names: Bassolino, Prodi and Iervolino.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this report because the progress made so far on waste management has been minimal.
The latter should monitor closely this action and, if appropriate, impose sanctions in order to ensure that the local authorities in Campania comply with EU waste management provisions.
In recent years, the Italian region of Campania has been struggling with serious problems in terms of collecting and disposing of waste, which are having a grave effect on the wellbeing of the local population, and are leading to serious risks to the environment and to public health.
It is therefore essential, following the 14 May 2010 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, for the Italian authorities to adopt the measures necessary to definitively and satisfactorily resolve the waste management crises in this region, whilst ensuring full compliance with EU law.
I therefore endorse the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in Campania.
in writing. - A big majority of the EP agreed (1) to call for a sustainable solution to be urgently identified that meets EU criteria, namely the implementation of a waste management plan in which, in accordance with Directive 2008/98/EC, respect for the waste cycle hierarchy constitutes a key basis.
Parliament requested the Commission to keep it informed on the state of affairs, including a waste management plan, and compliance with the Court decision of 4 March 2010 and EU rules.
Parliament also pointed out (2) that compliance with EU law on waste in Campania demands a very energetic effort to diminish the volume of waste and tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, re-use and recycling by providing an adequate infrastructure.
The 2003 inquiry into waste management irregularities found against the former regional government on no less than eight counts, including fraud in public procurement, aiding and abetting in breaches of environmental legislation and abuse of office.
In 2008, faced with 35 000 tonnes of waste abandoned on the roads, the Berlusconi Government succeeded in tackling the critical phase of the emergency in just 58 days.
In today's vote I supported the joint motion for a resolution by four groups on the waste crisis in Campania.
Third, the European Union directives on waste, hazardous waste and landfills, which must apply throughout Europe, no matter which Member State we are talking about.
in writing. - (LT) Ladies and gentlemen, the waste crisis in Campania has been a headache for politicians for several decades now.
In this case, I feel that the crisis in Campania offers an important lesson on waste management to all Europeans, including Lithuanians.
The report published by the European Environment Agency in December 2010 notes that the overall amount of waste in Lithuania has grown when compared to 2004, and that municipal waste in particular is growing constantly without exponential variation.
It is essential to revive this dialogue.
Now, like never before, there is an urgent need to address the construction and funding of waste recycling plants (co-financing from the Member State's budget, the EU and private funds), because only in this way is it possible to tangibly reduce the damage currently being done to the environment and the interests of society.
