Possibility of using gas from alternative sources in Europe (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the possibility of using gas from alternative sources in Europe.
The question is what role gas will play in the near future in heat generation, conversion to electricity, industry and as a fuel for transport and, therefore, in our energy timetable leading up to 2050, where it will be of huge importance.
The European gas market currently has a volume of around 520 billion cubic metres per year.
Part of this comes from our own deposits in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, but more than 60% of our gas supplies are imported from third countries and this figure will soon reach over 80%.
For this reason, new deposits, such as gas in rocks, will be a useful supplement to existing deposits and will therefore reduce our dependency on imports.
I am not drawing any conclusions from this development at the moment.
There is potential for research and, where appropriate, for extraction, firstly in Poland and then also in the United Kingdom and Germany.
This means that imports of conventional gas from third countries such as Norway, Russia and Algeria, or by sea from Qatar and other states, will definitely continue to play a central role in meeting the needs of the European gas market in the decades to come.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am pleased that the European Parliament has managed to initiate a debate on the possibility of exploiting gas from non-conventional energy sources, such as shale gas, tight gas and coalbed methane.
The European Union should not preach to the converted; instead, it should take a closer look at the United States, for example, to see how the extraction of shale gas has already revolutionised the energy market there.
Recently, there has been much discussion about the potential of shale gas, and today, Commissioner, you also indicated that this was noted in the conclusions of the European Council of 4 February.
Europe cannot afford to waste this potential and an opportunity of this kind, particularly since the EU's emphasis on moving away from coal means that gas is increasing in importance in the European economies.
This opportunity to diversify gas sources and increase the share of own resources, and thus reduce our dependency on imports, has now emerged in countries including Poland, France and Germany.
The best experience with the extraction of this gas has been in North America, where extraction from non-traditional sources accounted for up to 42% of total production in 2007.
According to the estimate of the International Energy Agency, there may be up to 991 billion cubic metres of non-traditional gas reserves in Europe.
It is therefore clear from what has been said that these new non-traditional gas sources are also becoming an interesting alternative for the exploitation of new horizontal extraction technologies. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, when we look at the fluctuations in prices on the energy markets over the last few weeks, we can see that not only the political risks presented by many countries, but also the financial markets and many other influencing factors make it impossible to develop a secure strategy for the future.
Therefore, we need to cut the energy cake into as many pieces as possible and it is clear that gas will continue to play a significant role in this respect in future.
Both partners have to be joined together for a long period in order to achieve a win-win situation. (DE) Madam President, I was pleased to hear, Mr Oettinger, that you did not go along with the growing trend for 'shale gas euphoria', but instead advised taking a more sensible approach.
This area is, of course, promising to a certain extent, because it could result in a reduction in our dependency on gas imports.
However, as you have said, we need to create an atmosphere of trust if we want this subject to be investigated in an impartial way.
We currently need a political moratorium on shale gas activities until we can answer the questions which many citizens are asking, because they have realised that action has been taken too quickly in the USA.
Therefore, I am calling on you, as the Member of the Commission responsible for this area, not to persist in doing what you have planned, but to carry out more in-depth investigations, as the Americans are, in order to create an atmosphere of trust. (PL) Madam President, deposits of alternative gas, in particular, shale gas, have allowed the United States to achieve full gas independence over the past 10 years.
Thanks to these deposits, the United States has gone from being a gas importer to a gas exporter, and use of these deposits has also resulted in tangible environmental benefits, for example, by limiting the amount of coal mined and the resulting coal damage.
Scientists are forecasting that a similar scenario could occur in the European Union.
Let us therefore not lag behind, and let us take concrete measures to benefit from this huge opportunity and potential. (PL) Madam President, it is to be welcomed that we have succeeded in provoking discussion on a subject which has been somewhat neglected in the European Union, namely, obtaining gas from alternative deposits.
In view of the current conflicts in North Africa, for example, which are causing repercussions on the fuels market, we should therefore ask questions about whether such alternative sources may be found in Europe itself.
Gas produced from alternative sources would have an important role to play in the European energy market.
As many speakers have already said, in the last 10 years, from being a net importer, the United States has become a gas-exporting country as a result of these new technologies, which facilitate access to shale gas.
Thank you for your attention. (RO) Madam President, on 4 February, the European Council recommended that Member States explore the resources of shale and oil shale gas in Europe.
Reducing dependency on Russian gas can also be achieved through implementing projects such as the Nabucco pipeline, a key priority for the European Union, along with other smaller projects, such as the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, the Turkey-Greece-Italy Interconnector or the Azerbaijan-Georgia-Romania Interconnector, which highlight the particular importance of the Black Sea to the Union's energy security. (PL) Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Oettinger for his statement to the Polish press, in which he said that shale gas represents an opportunity for the European Union, and that, since we do not wish to be dependent on imports, the use of shale gas lies in the European Union's interests.
This is why I, together with other colleagues, presented Written Declaration No 67 on the possibility of exploiting alternative sources of gas in the European Union.
I would like to share three facts with you on this matter.
I think it is good news for our colleagues.
Therefore, before we can exploit it, we politicians have to do everything we can in order not to destroy public acceptance, but rather to build it.
We look to ourselves, and if we have alternatives - which we have here through shale gas - we must exploit those to the full.
Secondly, we also have a growing requirement for energy within the European Union.
In Germany, there are 520 diesel-engined vehicles for every 1 000 people.
Thirdly, our own deposits of gas are shrinking.
For this reason, gas is essential in order to ensure that electricity can increasingly be generated from renewable energy sources.
If we look at the subject of the base load, it is currently around 8 000 hours per year, while the figure for wind power, depending on the situation, is between 2 000 and 5 000 hours and for solar energy between only 600 and 2 000 hours.
I am therefore working on the basis of an annual requirement of 600 billion cubic metres in Europe, rather than 300 billion.
This will result in a dependency level of 80%.
We must also eliminate islands, develop our storage capacity and diversify our sources.
Gas from this area can be brought into the European gas market via the Turkey-Greece-Italy Interconnector (ITGI), the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) and Nabucco.
We will also ask the Member States to give us a common, coordinated list of authorisation requirements.
Written statements (Rule 149) Gas extracted using non-traditional technologies may play a special part in the EU's energy market in the future.
In Europe, the world's largest gas market, the exploitation of alternative gas sources is still in its infancy.
