Guantánamo: imminent death penalty decision (debate) The next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on Guantánamo: imminent death penalty decision.
author. - Mr President, the ECR Group believes that capital punishment is a personal conscience issue for each MEP and, although we acknowledge the EU's common position opposing execution in all circumstances, the fact of the matter is that many millions of European citizens, our constituents, are still in favour of capital punishment.
The detention camp in Guantánamo Bay is a reflection of this tragic situation.
How cautious we have been in the way we have talked about condemning the human rights violations perpetrated by a country which claims to be the greatest democracy in the world, which still has the death penalty, and for which Guantánamo is an illustration to the world of human rights and international law violations committed in the name of combating terrorism.
We can lecture the entire world on human rights but we are incapable of enforcing them on our own territory.
I have never heard her group condemn the execution of people in places like Cuba, or even in China, where it is a common occurrence, unfortunately.
On the other hand, I would like to say that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has regarded and does regard a strong transatlantic relationship as a priority, in that this is based on the conviction of the existence of a set of common values and on respect for human rights.
We are all united in this Chamber in utterly rejecting acts of terrorism and in expressing our support for the victims of these attacks.
I am sorry, Mr Preda, but I have never defended, here in this Chamber, or at any other time in my life, a single dictatorship anywhere in the world.
We are calling again for the USA to impose a moratorium on the death penalty and to join a worldwide movement in which 96 states have made an irreversible decision to abolish the death penalty.
However, I believe that the USA will not be impressed when the second largest democracy in the world after India - the European Union - collapses into internal polemics on this important topic.
The subject is far too serious and it has rightly been said that our partnership with the USA is based on human rights.
Guantánamo is a zone where national and international law do not apply and, therefore, it goes against the principles of international law.
Guantánamo must be closed.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, the continued existence of the death penalty in the US and the situation in Guantánamo Bay undermines the United States' legitimacy as our partner in advancing human rights.
The EU and US need to work together, not in violating human rights, but rather to address the most pressing threats in our world.
We generally share core values, but the difference in our position on the death penalty, which I am proud to say is entirely banned in Europe, makes our joint voice less effective and less credible in the world.
Let us lead by example in the free world and let us be known for our respect for human rights, indiscriminately of whether we are dealing with friends or enemies.
The WikiLeaks files have now given an even clearer picture of the grossest abuses of human rights that have taken place there - the widespread use of waterboarding, other forms of brutal torture to extract confessions and information - and they also revealed that hundreds of people were held in Guantánamo with no real evidence against them.
This hell-hole must be shut down immediately with all of the current detainees having access to fair trial before a civilian court, all of the secret CIA torture prisons in Europe must be shut down, the use of Shannon airport in Ireland for military and rendition flights by the CIA must be ended, and the barbaric death penalty must be brought to an end. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (RO) Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Murphy whether he can also very quickly describe how political prisoners are tortured in Cuba.
Here, I think we are talking about Guantánamo Bay.
I think we are talking about gross abuses of human rights and I think they are taking place in the biggest imperialist power in the world - the United States - and they should be condemned here.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, Guantánamo is important, but let us put it in perspective.
For example, there was a British citizen who, when arrested on the battlefield in Afghanistan carrying weapons and wearing the black turban of the Taliban, gave the explanation that he was in Afghanistan in order to take a computer course.
That European Arrest Warrant, by its nature, outflanks and bypasses legal protections from arbitrary arrest, and 500 million people in Europe are subject to it, while there are now just 171 detainees at Guantánamo. (IT) Mr President, five days ago, we had news that five presumed authors of the 11 September attacks on the Twin Towers had been formally charged for the second time and that in doing so, the Obama administration had formally opened the way for these people to be tried before military commissions in the prison in the Guantánamo base.
Two important principles must be borne in mind: an unconditional 'no' to the death penalty, and the fact that the war against terrorism must also be a war against the causes of terrorism.
So I hope those people who do have evidence and documents will hand them over, and not just talk about them. (FI) Mr President, it has to be said that this debate and the political squabbling that goes on between us have not entirely served the purpose of this resolution in the best possible way or shown that in this House, and unanimously across the EU generally, we are keen to defend each person's right to an impartial trial and, moreover, that we are opposed to the death penalty.
We do not support terrorism, but we want to defend the principle where each person has the right to an impartial trial, and we are pleading in favour of the abolition of the death penalty.
We believe that a long imprisonment without trial is not compatible with international law.
The European Union and the Member States resolutely oppose the death penalty under all circumstances.
We assume that the US authorities have not yet decided whether Muhammed al-Nashiri and the five people accused of complicity in the terrorist attacks 10 years ago can be sentenced to death by the court.
Written statements (Rule 149) Saudi citizen Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri was arrested in 2002 by the United States and transferred to the Guantánamo base in 2006, accused of war crimes and terrorism.
Indeed, the US authorities will decide by 30 June 2011 whether to support this punishment or not before a military commission which is due to issue a verdict.
in writing. - The United States Department of Defence and its agencies have bluntly disregarded international law, in particular, the Geneva Conventions, with regard to the Guantánamo Bay detention camp.
The European Union must insist that the US closes the camp immediately and conducts an independent and impartial investigation of the alleged violations of human rights that have taken place in the camp.
The European Union and its Member States ought to persuade the United States to set a moratorium on the death penalty.
