Improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding - Precarious women workers (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mrs Estrela, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 92/85/EEC on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding - C6-0340/2008 -, and by Mrs Thomsen, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on precarious women workers.
The process of revising it has been long and problematic.
The proposals adopted by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality ensure the twin objectives arising from extending the legal basis: defending health and safety in the workplace for workers who are pregnant, who have recently given birth, or who are breastfeeding, and promoting gender equality and the reconciliation of professional and family life.
For this reason, motherhood cannot be viewed as an illness or a burden on the economy, but rather as a service to society.
The financial impact study concludes that the costs of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality's proposal will be completely covered if it contributes to an increase of only 1% in the participation of women in the labour market.
The involvement of fathers in their children's lives contributes to their healthy physical and psychological development.
It is a right for fathers and children.
Throughout the whole process, I have expressed my complete openness to a broader consensus, and I hope that those who care about the well-being of women, families and children will support this report.
In view of the Europe 2020 strategy objectives, there will be no justification for maternity leave not being a period of 20 weeks, paid in full, from 2020.
Mr President, we are having this debate today on women's working conditions because women and men experience different conditions on the labour market.
A major and important step towards complete equality is a new and modern piece of EU legislation on maternity leave.
First and foremost, there is a risk that, before long, the EU will face a demographic crisis - a crisis that could be at least as serious as the economic crisis in which we still find ourselves.
If we are to retain our competitiveness in the future and create growth, which is necessary in order to maintain our level of prosperity, more children need to be born in the EU.
We therefore need a maternity leave law that motivates families to have children.
If we are to create equality between men and women, we need to understand that men also play an important role in connection with paternity leave.
This will have a beneficial effect on equality, the children and, not least, the fathers themselves.
We must increase the participation of women on the labour market throughout the EU.
The objective of the EU 2020 strategy is to get 75% of all women on to the labour market.
Only by preventing discrimination against women can we get more women on to the labour market.
Another important step towards more equality on the labour market is the report on precarious women workers, for which I was rapporteur.
Women employed in private homes, in particular, have very precarious working conditions, characterised, among other things, by little or no job security, no social security, a high risk of discrimination and a poor working environment.
The EU should therefore support the Member States to enable the precarious jobs to be replaced by proper jobs with decent working conditions.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very glad that I can replace Vice-President Reding tonight in this very important debate because we are going to discuss two very topical reports which are at the heart of fundamental rights and gender equality.
The contribution of women is crucial to meeting our ambitious targets of an overall employment rate of 75% by 2020, but this cannot be done without ensuring the fundamental rights of women workers.
As we know, women are more likely to be in precarious jobs than men.
Certain forms of precarious work performed by women, such as paid domestic work and care, are simply not visible on the labour market.
Our new equality strategy covers all these issues and we need to mobilise all the instruments available to make progress in implementing it.
It is quite clear that stronger maternity leave standards at EU level are crucial to ensuring the health and safety of the mother and child, as are increasing participation of women in the labour market, changing family models and dealing with demographic pressure.
I would therefore like to compliment Ms Estrela on her work on this comprehensive report which, in many ways, improves the Commission's original proposal.
The proposal is based on Article 153 on health and safety at work for pregnant women, and on Article 157 which allows the EU to intervene in the field of equal pay for men and women.
It is currently undertaking an in-depth cost/benefit study on the subject in view of a possible separate initiative in this area.
Similarly, the Commission cannot accept weakening a woman's right to refuse night work.
This being so, I would like to stress that the Commission aims to set the minimum level of protection which takes into account the different models of reconciliation and family-related leave in the Member States.
The Commission would also like to thank Parliament for introducing a number of amendments which either strengthen or clarify the proposals.
Let us think about the need to stop penalising motherhood in the European Union in the 21st century and to ensure that women enjoy all the conditions worthy of a decent job.
Women, in particular, have been affected by this.
The trend in employment in Europe between 2000 and 2010 is for 60% to be made up of new, precarious and atypical types of employment, primarily - two thirds - taken up by women.
Yet women are now much more committed and better trained than in any previous generation.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has looked into this matter intensively and has developed good proposals on the issue of female employment: inclusion in social security systems regardless of job status; the establishment of childcare facilities; aligning retirement pensions and social systems with independent living; and organising work according to 'good work' principles.
All this is essentially contained in the report on precarious women workers.
The opinions of nearly all of the 27 delegations in the seven groups differ.
I have been in politics for 20 years and only rarely have I experienced a situation this complex.
Human life begins in the body of the mother and that is why we must protect her health before as well as after the birth.
Protection of the mother as a social expense factor must not become an obstacle for her employment.
If we suggest to young, educated women that they ought to have children, and simultaneously refuse to recognise their motherhood and fail to give them the opportunity to care for their children, we shall never succeed in reversing demographic development.
This directive may be in force for two decades; today, we are merely at the beginnings of a long and difficult decision-making process.
I am asking whether we intend to assess future social and economic development solely according to our current financial situation.
Nature did not grant us the right to give birth, but can society deprive us of the right to share the first moments of our children's lives?
That is why I call on all my fellow Members to vote overwhelmingly in favour of the introduction of two weeks' fully paid paternity leave throughout the European Union.
While I am on this subject, I also call on the European Commission and the Council to support us, and I repeat: how can you go against our request for the establishment of a new right for fathers at European level?
This fight is also for a more humane society, and in these times of crisis, the family is increasingly our last bastion against the upheavals of life.
The directive dealing with this issue has been in existence for 18 years.
The European Union treaty currently in effect gives us in this Parliament a legal basis to adopt the directive under discussion.
The directive aims to protect women's health.
It is therefore important to have a period of leave which would allow for the restoration of health, but which would also allow the mother to breastfeed her children for their health and development.
This is because some political forces and some business groups are still stuck in an old-fashioned perception that having children is exclusively women's work.
If, during the votes on Wednesday, we lose some of these fundamental points, I think it is important that we are clear and that European parents are clear that it has not happened by chance, and that the argument of the economic crisis cannot be used in such an important context.
I am in favour of supporting the report by Mrs Estrela, and I am in favour of the majority of this House doing exactly the same, because if not, we will be risking not only the health of working mothers, but also the welfare state that we have worked for so long to achieve in Europe.
Couple this with the economic effect on SMEs - in the UK, £2.6 billion; Germany, EUR 1.7 billion - and this report is positively dangerous in today's economic climate.
The report would focus on its original mandate, that of the health and safety of pregnant workers and those who have recently given birth.
I ask my colleagues in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality to get back to basics and do what is right for women.
The ECR has put forward an amendment which deals with many of the issues created by the full pay compulsory leave clause and I would ask my colleagues to support this amendment and make this report workable.
The debate on the Maternity Leave Directive and the own-initiative report on precarious women workers touches on the most important reason for all work to promote equality.
I regret the fact that, in 2010, we are still talking about maternity leave rather than parental leave.
We are discussing the rights of mothers and of fathers, but we also need to discuss the right - the unconditional right - of a child to build a close relationship with both parents.
Sometimes I ask myself whether it is easier to accept costs in traditional masculine areas than it is in connection with equality issues and the right of a child to have both parents.
I also think that the costs have been discussed without taking account of the benefits both to the individual and in socio-economic terms that this proposal entails.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left and I support Mrs Estrela's and Mrs Thomsen's proposals, which we voted on in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, where we improved the possibilities.
However, I see a number of problems for certain Member States that currently have considerably better parental leave.
I would also like the Convention on the Rights of the Child and a child's right to both parents to be much more evident.
Someone mentioned here in this debate that today employers ask women of child-bearing age whether they intend to have children.
The Europe of the future needs to radically rethink its own welfare model and not simply change its label from time to time.
The directive which aligns the institution of maternity leave in Europe is therefore positive, but the decision to address on the sidelines, in the same report, the complementary and equally important issue of paternity leave, is unproductive.
In the meantime, however, we can witness such a diversified development - in terms of the length of maternity leave, financing and the level of allowances - of various healthcare systems due to the combination of maternal and parental leave that it is now practically impossible to find a common denominator.
The good solution would have been to stay on the grounds of health and safety in this proposal, and strengthen equal opportunities in a different provision.
When I tabled the report on gender pay gap in this House, I pointed out the disadvantageous situation of mothers returning to the labour market after the birth of their first child.
However, as long as fathers and mothers are unable to perform the same task in terms of giving birth, that is, fathers cannot give birth to a child, we probably have to resolve equal opportunities in other areas.
The issue of equal opportunities must be resolved, and we have to make progress in this respect, as well, but not in this directive.
Today's costs, which can potentially be staggered, are a social and economic investment in the greater well-being of children, fewer diseases and the greater participation of women in the labour market.
Many claim that there will not be an increased and appropriately trained and qualified female workforce without a new welfare system and new opportunities to achieve a work-life balance: I fully agree with and thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Estrela and Mrs Plumb, for the complex work they have carried out, as I do all Members who have strived to find common ground.
Furthermore, I proposed, together with other Members, that with respect to the compulsory six weeks' leave following childbirth, a safeguard clause be provided for those countries where legislation provides this compulsory period prior to childbirth too.
It is argued that increasing maternity leave imposes higher costs on the private and public sector at a time of economic crisis, but this is only 0.01% of GDP and we are talking about EUR 2 billion.
We should make our joint commitment to ensuring that women across Europe become part of the labour market and that their life choice is taken seriously through higher female labour market participation, with greater value being accorded to childhood and the importance of balancing family and working life.
If those amendments are adopted, life for new mothers and fathers in the EU will not improve.
The future can certainly do without those who buckle at the knees as soon as business CEOs with only the next financial report on their minds, and national ministers with only the next elections on their minds, start lobbying. (PL) The significance of this directive goes beyond the problem of equality for women and help for women during maternity.
Many experts believe that one of the main problems in Europe, which could possibly be the most important problem of all, is the demographic collapse.
Progress in medicine, an improvement in living conditions and a drop in natural population growth mean a very old and very costly Europe in the future.
The reasons for the drop in population growth are very complex and transcend social issues and material security.
Madam President, the level of support for pregnant women workers is very varied in European countries.
The significance of this directive will be felt particularly in those countries where the scope of protection is very weak, and where support for families is very low or even non-existent, including when it comes to looking after older children.
This is why I would like to thank everyone who worked on this directive, especially for their sympathy for women in other countries who will be able to face the future with greater hope.
We must, as a matter of the utmost urgency, make the Member States face up to their responsibilities and demand the strictest possible penalties for those who consider themselves above the law. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a sector in which conditions for the female workforce continue to be precarious.
Yet female workers encounter a range of obstacles in their working activities, having to reconcile their working life with family life.
Mrs Thomsen, in her report, provides a figure which gives us food for thought: in the agricultural sector, 86% of female workers are employed part-time.
On the other hand, some other women assume the position of supporting partner, or rather, they help with their husband's farm, without being entitled to a legal status and without being appropriately remunerated.
I would argue, therefore, that it is necessary to protect women and their employment in a sector in which their work is often temporary and seasonal, support them in the area of health and safety, and ensure they receive fair pay and appropriate recognition for their work. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak of reconciliation, we mean those initiatives which, taking into consideration the needs of the family and the needs of workers, allow a balance to be struck between professional and family life.
The text which is being debated today proposes numerous support mechanisms for female workers, providing the basis for legal certainty which will give women freedom of choice and, as a consequence, a real work-life balance.
Women need to recover from giving birth in order to be ready to enter the labour market again.
However, I find that some of the amendments from the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs go too far.
As you know, it said that it would cost the ten Member States over EUR 7 billion a year if full pay was included.
When it comes to women employees, we can generally talk about protection, particularly during pregnancy and after childbirth, through labour law.
Now, set against an acute crisis in European and world capitalism, there has to be a real concern that vulnerable workers especially will be victimised by certain employers seeking to maintain profits and by governments embarked on the process of slashing social spending and public services.
We strongly agree with making explicit a woman's right to return to the same job, 20 weeks maternity leave and reasonable paternity leave.
This is the second time that an attempt has been made to establish minimum rules for the European Union, and it has now been 40 years that I have been campaigning in my professional life for equality between men and women, the integration of young women via training programmes, and their integration into society via their integration into the labour market.
Equality is what we are talking about here: equality between men and women.
I would like to say one thing to you: to vote today in favour of 20 weeks' fully paid maternity leave is irresponsible and demagogic.
The more we extend maternity leave without emphasising women's return to the workplace and their need to create a work-life balance, and the more we extend maternity leave without taking measures to protect women in the workplace, the more we are working against them.
There were a couple of speakers who said that maternity leave of 20 weeks would hurt women's chances in the labour market.
The first is that there is no mathematical link between the length of maternity leave and women's fertility rate, and to prove it I need only mention the situation in France, since France is a country which provides for 14 weeks' maternity leave and which, today, has one of the highest birth rates in Europe.
Therefore, I urge you: pay a little attention to what is actually happening, in the public sector and in the private sector alike. (FI) Mrs Morin-Chartier, do you accept the double standards whereby all employees of the European Union, those of the Commission, the Council, Parliament and Parliament's political groups, would be on full pay for the 20 weeks of their maternity leave, while at the same time proposing that this would not be the case for other people?
As a basis, this is entirely possible, but there is a difference between what is possible and the Utopian idea of proposing 20 weeks on full pay; between what is feasible and what one can promise in Parliament, which will not be accepted by either the Council or the national parliaments.
If we vote on Wednesday in favour of the Estrela report and the 20 weeks, the European Parliament will be disavowed three times: the first time by the Council, which will be unable to give its support - the Member States will be unable to give their support; the second time by the national parliaments - the national parliaments, with their budgets, will be unable to give their support; and the third time by women, when they realise that we have worked against them. (NL) Madam President, we have to stand by mothers and fathers in the rush hour of their lives.
Yet we must invest now in women as workers and in improving work-life balance so that our society remains affordable in the future.
On the other hand, as the European Parliament, we also need to be aware that we are adopting a directive that will be in force not just for five years, but perhaps for the next 20 or 25 years.
We need to bear in mind this perspective too.
We dare to disagree with a small part of these proposals; therefore we must be derided.
I applaud your commitment to these proposals - indeed, I agree with the vast majority of them - but there are one or two parts that I do not agree with.
Come back in 30 years' time and preach to me about advancing women's rights when you have done as much work on this as I have.
Member States are best placed to decide these details; the principles of subsidiarity should apply. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, mothers need special protection.
The physical changes, new life circumstances and, above all, the recovery and recuperation period - all these things make adequate maternity protection essential.
This is something that society must provide.
The Member States have organised their maternity provision in very different ways, in some cases, supplementing this with parental leave to include fathers.
Fathers need to be involved in family responsibilities - and we are talking here not about leave, but about shouldering the responsibilities involved in bringing up children and in family life.
However, paternity leave is not part of maternity provision; rather, it must always be part of parental leave.
We cannot allow the important matter of maternity provision to be diluted by an extension of parental leave.
No mother is sick for 20 weeks; neither are breastfeeding mothers sick.
This is set out in Amendments 115 and 116, which I urge Members to support.
Mothers are building the future, and they need every support that we can offer them. (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in voting for the Estrela report, we are basically responding to the demands of millions of women for greater protection for pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth, or who are breastfeeding, and their babies.
By increasing maternity leave to 20 weeks and paternity leave to 2 weeks, on full pay, we are supporting the recovery from the international crisis and economic growth in the European Union, because we are helping to reconcile family life and work.
By protecting working women from dismissal during pregnancy and for six months thereafter, we are providing an incentive to implement the objective of the EU strategy and achieve a 75% female participation rate in the labour market by 2020.
A positive vote for both reports is a positive vote for a more balanced, decentralised, social Europe and gender equality. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the working conditions of women, which we want to improve in Europe.
It is an established fact that poverty disproportionately affects women.
It may result from the fact that women are not paid as well as men.
Things are particularly serious in the case of women whose employment conditions are precarious, because in some cases, they may not even have an employment contract or may have irregular employment contracts; they may have no protection whatsoever and they may have little access to information.
We need to break out of this spiral, which affects women more than men.
We also need to ensure that we have more women and girls going into the better paid professions.
In some countries, the proposed minimum exceeds the level of protection which national legislation currently offers pregnant women.
Yet we must realise that in investing in women and creating favourable conditions for them, we are encouraging them to decide to have children.
In this case, we have no alternative.
However, where the debate in Germany is concerned, for example, I must say that I can definitely see how Germany could implement this report.
What we are concerned with here is creating minimum standards at EU level to establish social framework conditions for women.
As far as the debate on costs is concerned, I would like to remind everyone in this House that in Germany - as well as in some other European countries - the anti-discrimination directive brought about a huge amount of lobbying on the part of enterprises.
For me, that includes women.
In this situation, women need our help. (FI) Madam President, in its votes, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality adopted a number of amendments to the Commission's original proposal for a directive.
The proposals put forward by the Committee on Women's Rights also ignore the progressive maternity and parental leave schemes in other countries, including the Nordic countries.
The Committee's proposals confuse these parental leave systems, which offer freedom of choice at national level, and in certain respects, they would even detract from the welfare of mother and child.
For example, under the Committee's proposal, if mothers only begin the compulsory six week period of maternity leave after confinement, there is increased risk to pregnant women at the workplace due to give birth soon, as well as their children.
For example, in Finland, parents can look after their child at home until the age of 18 months, on average, and we can afford it, because at various stages, employers, workers and taxpayers, too, share the costs.
If employers were saddled with the full amount, there is no doubt whatsoever that it would weaken women's employment opportunities and do a disservice to women as employees. (SV) It is now important for us to find flexible solutions with regard to the controversial details in this directive.
It would be possible to meet the target set in the EU 2020 strategy of increasing the employment rate of women to 75%.
Unfortunately, that is not the case with this second report, which was adopted by a majority in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and which we are discussing here in Parliament 17 months after the first report.
Indeed, in order to encourage an employed and, above all, highly qualified woman to have children, it is more important for her to have the right to a shorter period of leave but on full pay than to have 20 or 30 weeks' leave or more without a full pay guarantee.
Personally, I shall not be voting for this report in its present form, and I call on all my fellow Members to reject all those amendments that have nothing to do with maternity protection, such as the provisions concerning self-employed workers.
The same applies to paternity leave, Mr Tarabella, and I am in favour.
The Belgians can introduce 20 weeks' fully paid paternity leave tomorrow if they have a government; there is nothing stopping them from doing so.
I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendments restricting leave to 18 weeks and of the considered amendments, Madam President, tabled by your group and mine. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question by Marc Tarabella under Rule 149(8)) (RO) Eliminating any form of discrimination in every sphere of social and economic life is a vital prerequisite for protecting human rights and the welfare of every citizen.
The promotion of the principle of equal opportunities for men and women, along with ensuring greater involvement by women in economic and social life, as fully entitled participants, must constantly be issues of concern.
I believe that this approach must be reflected in the common agricultural policy in order to ensure that the sexes are represented fairly and equally.
Bearing in mind that the principle of gender equality is promoted by European legislation and is one of the fundamental requirements of the Europe 2020 strategy, I consider it appropriate to include this issue in agriculture as well, which also means through using new instruments which will promote this principle.
Nineteen out of 27 countries in the European Union follow the same practice, with various pay entitlements.
Admittedly, two weeks is not very much, but it is reasonable: two weeks for all fathers in Europe so that they can share the tasks involved in welcoming their new arrivals into their families.
I am for a European directive but I am not for this issue being resolved in this directive, which concerns the protection of women and children.
The social partners, as I said, are currently holding talks on a directive on paternity leave.
I believe that the social partners should also be entrusted with the task of making proposals in this area, because they are the best placed to do so.
Therefore, I am in favour.
I just wanted to say to you, and to all those women who have completely failed to understand that a European directive is a set of minimum, not maximum, rules, that everyone can go further, but that it is important to give those countries that are below - well below - the 18 weeks the opportunity to adapt.
Moreover, I believe that, if you and I had had to draft this report, we would have taken the right measures in this House in codecision with the Council a long time ago. (DE) Madam President, now I know how to go about changing and extending one's speaking time.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has called for 18 weeks' maternity provision, which is four weeks more than was amicably agreed in Germany.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality has called for 20 weeks on full pay plus two weeks' paternity leave plus extension to self-employed workers.
Payments such as Germany's maternity allowance were not included.
You cannot make responsible policy on such a basis.
Germany is exemplary: during the parental leave period, two thirds of salary continue to be paid for up to 14 months.
This extends 14 weeks of maternity provision to up to 170 weeks.
This is why I have tabled an amendment, together with 50 of my fellow Members from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which is supported by the European Conservatives and Reformists and large parts of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
We want mothers to enjoy adequate protection; but if such protection is carried too far, specifically for ideological reasons, this will represent a major obstacle to women's employment - which is something that we must remove, not encourage. (SV) In many Member States, the reactions to this report have been strong and many politicians have attempted to score points by pulling this EU initiative to pieces.
People can think what they want to about what should be regulated at EU level, but, as I said, a directive already exists that we have the opportunity to improve.
The critics claim that the proposal is too expensive, but I am convinced that increased equality is beneficial to society. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, this House - representative of all 27 States - has decided, with courage and obstinacy, once again to tackle a delicate, but at the same time topical, issue for our countries' social growth.
We are dealing with a report which affects the social, employment and economic policies of our States, but which also concerns the whole of Europe in its desire to grow in unison.
To ensure a minimum threshold to protect the aforementioned principles throughout Europe means improving the quality of life of our families and not only that of our women, and therefore also our quality of life; this is what we are facing with conviction and with the appropriate compromises.
As there is a steep decline in the birth rate in almost all Member States, we must take measures to create the best possible conditions for mothers to bring up children and to have a genuine opportunity to return to the labour market.
I also call on the Member States and MEPs to find opportunities and coordinate the cost of maternity pay and childcare allowance in order to ensure that women are not a more costly work force than men.
The sharing of family responsibilities and the opportunity to also grant men the right to two weeks paternity leave would give women increased opportunities to return to the labour market and would strengthen family relationships.
I am, in fact, what Mrs Morin-Chartier referred to as the small additional package to be added to the Estrela report.
While the aim is indeed to improve the health and rights of women - of all women - in the labour market, adoptive mothers, who have become mothers like the others, are entitled to the same rights and the same protection at work.
Nevertheless, despite this reservation, I shall support Mrs Estrela's report because, economic considerations aside, not only are there men and women who must better assume their parental responsibilities in a society that is increasingly abdicating its responsibility of raising its young people, but it is also our duty to ensure that people do not have to choose to sacrifice their children for their job, or their job for their children.
What is more, our debate deserves better, I feel, than certain caricatures and certain stereotypes that one still hears today. (PT) Europe is ageing, and it has very low birth rates.
We have agreed on this observation during this debate, despite the differing views that have become evident in the discussion.
In Portugal, for example, the birth rate is not high enough to ensure that generations are replaced, and this situation is jeopardising the future.
This is happening in my country, as it is in the majority of EU Member States.
I am sure that more flexible policies with regard to maternity leave can help to reverse these trends.
Meeting this challenge is vital if we want to achieve the economic and social objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy and combat demographic ageing.
In Portugal, for example, maternity leave is already paid at 100% of earnings for 120 days, in an attempt to counteract the low birth rate that we are experiencing.
I would therefore argue that women's salaries should be assured during maternity leave in the manner described in the report under discussion.
Allowing each Member State to create conditions that will ensure an objective of paying full salaries during maternity leave by 2020 seems a sensible step.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Estrela, for her persistence in defending measures which are aimed at protecting families, whilst also counteracting the ageing of the population. (ES) Madam President, I think that we are all aware of the responsibility that Parliament has to exercise today in revising the directive on working conditions for women; a directive that we have been discussing since the previous legislature and on which, due to various points of view and difficulties, we have not been able to progress.
This is why I am saying that today, we need to take responsibility, within the different points of view that we may have, in order to move forward on equal rights between men and women and improve the living conditions of women in the labour market.
Enabling the mother and father to share the work of caring for their children in the first few days after they are born is essential and fundamental for making progress in terms of equality between men and women.
I used to think it was some sort of Chinese conspiracy where this place made it almost impossible for a European economy to function, and that behind the scenes the Chinese were making it so bad that eventually we had to import absolutely everything from China.
I would suggest that when the electorate quite rightly look at them and boot them out in a few years' time for their incompetence and their stupidity, they will only be able to get back into the workplace because they are in middle or late middle age.
If you think that is a weird hypothesis, anything that puts up with the way you talk about climate change, believe me, nothing is too stupid for this Chamber. (IT) Madam President, there is no doubt that bringing this draft legislation to Parliament for debate after 18 months of intense work should be greeted favourably.
It is clear that a project of this nature is characterised by various sensitivities, given that the equivalent laws in the Member States are profoundly different.
Consistency must likewise be ensured in the protection of women who give birth - and I say this despite the fact that I hold the regulatory scope of this measure to be broader than that which was originally envisaged - insofar as it should be highlighted that in Europe, and in many Member States, there is still a notable difference in the protection offered with regard to childbirth and unborn babies.
This activity must clearly be reconciled with the need to eliminate employer abuse, and we need to limit the scope of the amendments - some of which, in my opinion, make the legislation too inflexible overall - starting with paternity leave, which seems far removed with regard to a measure issued fundamentally for the protection of women.
The proposed changes will cost the UK up to GBP 2 billion at a time when public and private sector workers are being made redundant in order to save far smaller sums.
Madam President, there are other ways of enhancing the rights of nursing mothers, such as more flexible leave systems.
We must also respect the diverse social and cultural differences of various Member States.
I am saying this not only to a number of colleagues from my own group - who, incidentally, have left the Chamber - but also to others.
We have said that, in this social Europe, men and women must enjoy equal opportunities on the labour market and must also be able to have children.
Currently, we are all aiming for 18 weeks, and we have now more or less agreed on this 18 weeks, but we do not yet know how we are going to afford this.
I have no objections at all to the compromise tabled by my own group to set a maximum of 75% for those four weeks.
That is where my main objection lies, as this gives countries such as the United Kingdom and Ireland - in France, such costs are also heavily subsidised - the opportunity to evade the 75% that must continue to be paid.
Therefore, I wonder whether we can perhaps vote down that part of the compromise.
Indeed, I would emphasise the title, which is the legal framework of this directive, because too often, we tend to forget what exactly this text is about.
The debate tends to become diluted as a result of the reference made to paternity or parental leave.
We must implement genuine guarantees to protect the health of these women in the labour market.
Paternity and parental leave will be dealt with in another directive.
Secondly, the debate revolves around the number of weeks.
Currently, the average leave period is set at 14 weeks.
The European Commission is proposing 18 weeks and the report 20.
I am convinced that the average increase from 14 to 18 weeks is a major European advance and a real investment by our economy towards promoting a rise in birth rates in Europe.
Thirdly, more priority must be given to improving childcare so that mothers can achieve a work-life balance.
Therefore, let us not be counterproductive and let us not send women back home. (RO) I wish to take this opportunity to convey my condolences to the family of Maricica Hăhăianu.
Women are concentrated in low paid jobs and account for the large majority of part-time workers in the European Union.
However, there are some cases where the impact of the crisis has been limited on women participating in the labour market.
I have listened very closely to the debate this evening and I would like to say that those against this draft, and I am referring to extending maternity leave and full pay, can only come up with one argument - economic.
I do mean employers, too, in the sense of investing in the future.
Mr Mann and his colleagues have also tabled amendments on this matter, including Amendment 115, the first part of which really concerns whether or not the four weeks should be counted.
Unfortunately, this is associated in the second half of the amendment - and I will read it out now so as to be absolutely clear - with the fact that the remuneration may be the average of the remuneration for the 18 weeks of maternity leave, which shall be at least 75% of the last monthly salary or of the average monthly salary as stipulated according to national law, subject to any ceiling laid down under national legislation.
Of course, making family life compatible with work costs money.
We need to take drastic steps if we are to achieve this, such as a statutory minimum wage in all Member States. (DE) Madam President, the matter of maternity protection should remain a matter for the Member States on account of the cultural differences in Europe.
Austria has 16 weeks of maternity provision.
Extending this would cost EUR 17.4 million per year for each further week.
Making 20 weeks' provision mandatory would cost Austria more than EUR 60 million.
The additional costs would be even higher if there were also two weeks' paid paternity leave for every father.
This could encourage an increase in precarious working conditions, to which 31.5% of women in gainful employment are already subject.
The question is: is that what we really want? (GA) Madam President, we had an excellent debate here this evening and, in general, many good points were made in the Chamber.
The points raised were idealistic, but Mrs Estrela deserves to be praised for making those points for us.
At the same time, however, we must be practical and realistic.
If we take all these suggestions on board, it is possible that young women, in particular, will be unable to find employment.
There have been different amounts of progress in the different Member States.
I come from Sweden, where we have parental leave that is longer than a year, with a high level of remuneration and where the father is obliged to take some of the parental leave.
I do not think that it would be possible to achieve something that has been so good for men, women and children, as well as for the level of participation among women on the labour market, at EU level.
However, let us ensure that we obtain a minimum directive that enables us to reach an agreement. (PL) Turning to the issue of women's professional activity, I would like to consider two age groups: the first group, which has been discussed a great deal today already, are young women who are very well-educated and cannot find a job due to the fact that employers are often wary of costs linked with pregnancy and maternity leave.
The second group are women over 50, who are seen as less productive and less creative.
According to the statistics, women aged between 59 and 60 make up only 25% of employees in this age range.
The percentage of women over 60 still in work is even lower.
This is why, when we are discussing precarious women workers, we should consider both of these groups and do everything we can to help women find that first job, return to work after maternity leave and increase their qualifications. (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Madam President, the aims of this initiative are to improve the health and safety of working women who are pregnant or have given birth and apply measures to balance family and working life.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all the honourable Members for taking part in this important, stimulating and, I would say, also very passionate debate.
This directive will soon be in force and we will build on this progress and look carefully at further proposals on paternity leave.
As I said in my opening remarks, we are now studying the situation and we will be back to you very soon with our results.
I can assure you that the Commission will back up action to improve the working conditions of precarious female workers by monitoring national employment policy and by providing structural fund support in particular.
In this vein, the Commission welcomes the amendments which are aimed at maintaining the 18 weeks minimum leave, set an alternative level of remuneration, keep the reference to sick leave, and allow for other forms of leave to be counted as maternity leave.
The improvement of conditions for women in Europe must be our ultimate goal.
We asked for the floor already when President Buzek started this point tonight, so I am objecting to your injustice in giving the floor in the catch-the-eye.
As I mentioned, there were many more people requesting the floor than we were actually able to accommodate.
I think that it is very important that this is associated with the testimonies of other people, such as the other MEPs who have also spoken in this debate, as this will certainly help to alter certain prejudices and change the stereotypes which still exist in our society.
Men are just as much fathers as women are mothers, as well as being workers, and thus they are entitled both to professional achievement and to raising their children from birth.
I would have liked to ask him whether David Cameron is better than other Europeans who would also like to take paternity leave, but who are discriminated against in at least eight Member States.
I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their involvement.
Madam President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their comments on my report on precarious women workers and the Commission for its willingness to take initiatives to improve the situation.
As many Members have pointed out, women constitute the vast majority of those working under poor working conditions and for low wages.
This not only means that women in Europe earn less than men, but also that women receive smaller pensions than men, and we will see many more poor women in the Europe of the future, because marriage no longer provides automatic financial security in old age.
The most vulnerable group on the European labour market is that of female immigrants.
Among this group, we see a high level of exploitation, especially among the 11 million women working as domestic workers.
This group also includes au pairs.
Au pair means 'on equal terms', but many of the women who come from the Philippines and the former Soviet Republics to work as au pairs do not come for cultural exchange.
If we want to achieve complete equality between men and women on the labour market, women need to be fully compensated during maternity leave, and men need to be involved in looking after the children and thus granted paternity leave.
The vote on the Estrela report will take place on Wednesday, 20 October.
The vote on the Thomsen report will take place on Tuesday, 19 October.
Written statements (Rule 149) Equality between men and women represents one of the fundamental principles of the European Union.
It was already defined in the Treaty of Maastricht in 1992, some years later, in the Treaty of Amsterdam (1997) and in the present day in the EU strategy 2010-2015.
The social agenda of the European Union includes, amongst its priorities, the need to promote policies aimed at supporting the reconciliation of the working, private and family life of women.
The European Union is, at present, facing a demographic challenge arising from low birth rates and the steady increase in the proportion of older people.
I believe that the improvement of provisions aimed at promoting a work-life balance for women is part of the answer to this demographic decline.
As such, I support the amendments that have been introduced for this purpose, including, in particular, the right of a woman to return to her job or to be assigned an equivalent position.
The report's main objective is to improve security and healthcare for pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth and workers who are breastfeeding at work.
Personally, I consider the most important proposal to be the extension of the minimum length of maternity leave from 14 weeks to 20 weeks, which will contribute towards improving the health and psychological state of the mother, who will also therefore be able to take full care of her child.
Women, unlike men, still bear the main responsibility for the care of the child and other dependents, and are often forced to choose between motherhood and professional development.
Domestic work accounts for almost a tenth of the total number of jobs in developed countries, which represents a large group of citizens, especially women, in a vulnerable situation.
This encourages abusive treatment by employers, especially when the workers are immigrants originating either from the new European Union Member States, like Romania, or third countries.
I also wish to press for the minimum period of maternity leave to be extended to 20 weeks so that women can have the time they need to look after their children accordingly.
in writing. - I support this report which seeks to extend EU maternity leave to 20 weeks on full pay and to introduce two weeks of paid paternity leave.
It is vital that the governments now support the EP's recommendations in the EU Social Affairs Council on 2 December.
Studies have also shown that social measures such as maternity leave help increase the female employment rate by 3-4%.
The impact assessment of this measure demonstrated that just over a 1% increase in female labour participation would cover the costs of 20 weeks paid maternity leave and two weeks paid paternity leave.
in writing. - Over the last 50 years, European women have made huge progress towards gender equality.
The promotion of equality is a priority in employment strategies.
It is time for action where it concerns families.
Families require concrete deeds and better coordination of work and family life.
Employment and birth rates among women are higher in countries where good systems of family leave and childcare services ease the burden that results from having children.
It is therefore possible to combine women's participation in the labour market with high birth rates, and that should be supported in the EU.
I back the proposal by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality for maternity leave to last 20 weeks on full pay.
If the directive went ahead, it would narrow the earnings gap between women and men.
It is indeed difficult to think of any reason not to support the proposed directive with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
Better coordination of family and professional life promotes the well-being of families, employment and economic development.
I support the Commission's view that the minimum period for maternity leave should be raised across the Union from the present 14 weeks to 18 weeks, with compensation paid at the rate in place for a period of illness, at the very least.
When, in addition, we bear in mind the changes to parental leave made last year, we may conclude that protection of the family is improving in the EU.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, however, has adopted amendments that do not respect the differences between national systems or financial realities.
Cramming them all into the same package would result in poor legislation and breach the principle of subsidiarity.
The costs of maternity leave lasting 20 weeks on full pay, which is now being proposed, would go up in Finland from the current level of EUR 30 million to EUR 80 million.
In many Member States, it would mean even higher costs.
The European Parliament and the Council have adopted several directives to implement these recommendations.
February's annual report by the European Parliament on equality between men and women for 2009 says that, as a result of the economic crisis and the budget cuts in the EU countries, there have been job losses, particularly amongst women.
The crisis has impeded the attainment of many fixed objectives.
The European Institute for Gender Equality should immediately assess the current situation, and the European Commission and the European Parliament should take effective action to halt the worsening of the status of women.
The long gestation (a fitting choice of term in this case) of this proposal for a directive is due to the conflict between those who wanted to include impossible objectives in the document in order to give it a symbolic quality, and those whose sole aim was to advance our society by promoting certain rights in practice.
However, the new features introduced - the extension of maternity leave to 18 weeks and the 6 weeks' compulsory maternity leave after confinement; the introduction of remuneration at the full amount of the woman's previous earnings; the increased protection against redundancy; and the introduction of the right to request flexible working patterns, notwithstanding the option for Member States to set different limits and to maintain more favourable provisions, mean that we are indeed taking a step forward.
As the proportion of women in precarious employment is excessively high today and, therefore, the abovementioned harmful consequences have a disproportionate effect on the situation of such women, I think that the EU should strengthen the legal regulations on temporary, part-time and agency work.
Perhaps then, one day, we will be in a position to say that the EU has guaranteed equal rights between men and women and abolished gender discrimination in the labour market.
The European Union needs a coherent social policy.
The harmonisation of maternity leave systems is an important step towards a more social Europe.
The report proposes a period of maternity leave lasting 20 weeks on full pay.
This would increase maternity benefits in many EU countries.
The greater contribution made by women to the labour market would quickly cover the costs of the reform, which many claim are insurmountable.
The call for full pay during maternity leave is also an important step in narrowing the differences in income between women and men.
In today's Europe, older women are especially liable to live in poverty.
There has been talk for a long time about improving working conditions for women but, unfortunately, nothing is changing.
I have drawn the European Commission's attention to their situation through questions which have been submitted requesting a directive for regulating the rights of seasonal workers in the European Union.
If greater protection for women in the labour market in the context of childbirth and motherhood primarily means an economic burden that European society is not willing to bear, then we need to think about the values of this society.
in writing. - Many speakers have understandably referred to the economic impact of extending maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks.
Unfortunately, costs often come up because they are easy to measure.
In fact, one subject which has been well researched quantitatively is the impact of paid maternity leave on prime-age female labour force participation rates (FLFPR).
For many Member States whose length of maternity leave is close to the legal minimum and, as a consequence, their female participation is low, an increase in paid maternity leave is economically beneficial.
For these Member States, the cost of extending maternity leave will be money well invested rather than a burden.
