It is quite likely that most of the MEPs from the UK will not be present.
I urge you to perhaps look at 4 May - bring it back a few days - because, if you deny that vote, you are going to deny the United Kingdom a chance to oppose or support measures ... (The President cut off the speaker) If I may give you my answer: I will take what you have said very seriously.
We have two days: 5 and 6 May.
We will decide how to proceed with the votes scheduled for 5 and 6 May, and how to divide them.
As we all know, Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure allows for one-minute speeches.
Pursuant to Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, a list will be drawn up of 30 speakers, who will be chosen selectively so as to maintain a representative political and geographical balance.
Thirdly, in line with this new efficiency - which is to be welcomed - could you please make a start right away today by reading out the names of the 30 speakers you intend to give the floor to today?
The part-session in Brussels will be the first one held under the new rules. (DE) Mr President, the problem of stray dogs in Romania has become topical once again as a result of the planned lifting of the ban on killing these dogs that has been in place since 15 January 2008.
In order to draw attention to this situation, works councils and Germany's Industrial Union of Metalworkers have directed an appeal on behalf of Duisburg to Chancellor Merkel and to President Barroso.
The effects of the crisis have multiplied following the implementation of the directive in Member States where the postal market has been completely deregulated.
I am calling for the immediate, unconditional release of the journalist Ernest Vardanian, and I urge the authorities in the self-proclaimed Republic of Transnistria to make a move towards Chişinău in order to resolve the conflict there. (PL) The financial and economic crisis has hit the poorest people the hardest.
To meet their needs, the European Union has declared the year 2010 to be European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
It is estimated that in Europe, over 40 million people live in poverty, and nearly 40 million more are threatened with poverty.
