The figures reveal the importance of vegetable production to the local economy, with 2 000 families, a total of approximately 5 000 people and 10 000 jobs, directly and indirectly linked, at risk in the region.
The regional Valencian government is now imposing prohibitive sanctions on the private Acció Cultural del País Valencià association which installed, 20 years ago, the TV repeaters, forcing them to close them down.
I should also like to announce that a popular legislative initiative in favour of Catalan television reception has been taken to the Spanish Parliament with the support of 615 000 citizens.
However, public property in Greece is not all the same: commercial property, such as buildings which do not serve any public function, is one thing, and a radical change in the use of land at the expense of the environment is quite another, as it puts at risk free spaces, such as the old Athens airport, which are intended to compensate for the lack of green spaces in cities which have less than 3 square metres of green space per inhabitant, at a time when the European average is 10 square metres of green space per inhabitant.
As you all know, the 19 December elections in Belarus were followed by a wave of arrests.
On 19 February, Ales Mikhalevich was released from prison; he was one of the competing candidates.
Thank you, Mr Migalski.
They used Facebook to set up a protest that aims to bring together, and I quote, the unemployed, [...] those who are slaves under another name, subcontractees and those on short-term contracts, those in irregular work, interns, and those doing work experience: in other words, the generations that, in my country, are indebting themselves in order to study, that almost pay to work, and that get by on EUR 500 per month.
There are already more than 40 000 people signed up on the Internet for this demonstration and it is taking place this Saturday.
The uprising in this country, following on from Tunisia and Egypt, has been bloodier and has taken a tragic turn.
I hope that one outcome of the forthcoming meeting to be attended by Commissioner Damanaki, who is here today, will be that fishing for whitebait can resume in 2011, at least in certain districts, such as Schiavonea and Corigliano Calabro in Calabria, with a possibility of a review for 2012. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that events in the Middle East have made it clear to the European institutions that they cannot continue to ignore the violation of fundamental rights and of national constitutions.
In accordance with this judgment, from 21 December of next year, it will no longer be possible to distinguish between buyers of insurance on the basis of gender.
However, this decision by Moody's is absolutely unjustified.
It comes just one day before the auction of six-monthly treasury bills, which is crucial to Greece, and a few days before the crucial meetings of the European Council on 11 and 25 March, at which serious decisions will be taken.
Since it was established in 1986, the Fund has provided more than EUR 838 million to a wide range of projects both in Northern Ireland and in the border counties.
Unfortunately, the land taken away by the authorities of the Soviet Union 50 years ago has not been returned to them.
