Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (ET) Over the years, the scope of European Union consumer protection policy has developed very much to reflect changes in people's needs and expectations.
Most importantly, our consumers do not feel safe because they do not know the rules and, in many cases, the compensation mechanisms are not working in the way they should.
Thank you, that is exactly what I wanted to underline. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Buşoi report because I believe that the service provided by SOLVIT is of fundamental importance in terms of a clear and transparent link between the institutions, citizens and businesses, which is one of the cornerstones of the European Union.
Many countries in the European Union still have barriers in their national legislation, which must be removed.
I therefore feel that we should support the allocation of further funds, the recruitment of further specialised staff and improvement of the visibility of this service, including at local authority level, where it could be very useful. (CS) As the shadow rapporteur, I would like to thank all Members for the fact that our report on the SOLVIT network has been passed by Parliament with such an absolute majority.
I would like to believe that next year, the Commission will present Parliament with a fully-fledged annual report where the public will learn about complaints concerning the denial of rights that are otherwise supposed to be guaranteed by European legislation. (PL) Madam President, I would like to give reasons for the way I voted on Mrs de Brún's report.
I would like to express support for measures intended to prolong the transitional regime and, as a result, to end the problem of rabies in the European Union.
In this case, we have not managed to do that to a satisfactory extent.
I am also rather perplexed as to why this proposal only refers to dogs, cats and ferrets, and I would also make the observation that a certain Screaming Lord Sutch proposed this 25 years ago and he must be looking down very pleased today.
This is a very pressing matter: the Visa Code should be coming into effect very soon, and I supported the proposals in the report. (CS) I have supported this regulation, which will facilitate the movement of persons with long-stay visas in the Schengen area.
It is logical that students, research workers and entrepreneurs from third countries should have the right to move around the entire Union if they have acquired a visa in any Member State.
I would like to apologise for again taking the opportunity to draw attention to this issue. (HU) As we heard during the debate, the proposal is to facilitate travel within the European Union for third-country nationals holding a long-stay D visa issued by a Member State.
This is to provide a solution to situations when, for one reason or another, some Member States are unable or unwilling to issue a residence permit for third-country nationals in time, or they do not apply the framework provided by the Schengen regulations properly.
Furthermore, publication of current data and effectively informing citizens and business people about their rights and the situation in the market will help improve the market's function and will improve transparency of its principles, ensuring equal conditions for competition. (LT) Madam President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the initiative and trust that it can help people and companies at national level.
I would like attention to be drawn to this. (ET) In order to create a stable and innovative economic environment, it is absolutely necessary to have a properly working internal market.
Their adoption is also essential from the point of view of parliamentary supervision.
In the case of the report of Countess von Thun Und Hohenstein, however, the Socialists and the Greens have taken exception to the proposal for the performance of regular checks into the functioning of the internal market.
The Commission proposes to proceed to the allocation of FISIM for the establishment of GNI and considers that this should be effected retroactively from 1 January 2005, the date of the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2002.
However, the proposed retroactive implementation from 1 January 2005 poses problems for the precise extent of this retroactivity.
This ensures that the allocation of the FISIM is properly carried out from 2010, resulting in a more accurate calculation of the GNI.
The allocation of financial intermediation services indirectly measured (FISIM) for the establishment of the gross national income (GNI) of Member States used for the purposes of the European Union's budget and its own resources is an old issue, and one that should have been implemented in 2005.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade.
I support the present proposal to mobilise the sum of EUR 6 199 341 to assist Germany, in response to the German request made on 13 August 2009, with the intention of providing assistance to workers made redundant within the Karmann Group, an automotive firm.
In 2008, the three institutions confirmed the importance of guaranteeing that there would be a quick procedure to approve decisions to mobilise the fund, with the aim of being able to help people within a useful time period.
I hope that the procedure to activate the Solidarity Fund will be undertaken more quickly, in order to make it possible to confront calamitous situations which require an immediate response, such as the recent tragic case of Madeira.
The mobilisation of EUR 6 199 341 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is needed to support and assist 1 793 redundant workers from that group.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a consequence of significant changes in the structure of international trade.
The interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 allows the mobilisation of the EGF within the annual ceiling of EUR 500 million.
The present proposal relates to the mobilisation of a total sum of EUR 6 199 341 from the EGF to assist Germany, with the intention of providing assistance to workers made redundant within the Karmann Group, an automotive firm.
The requests for action by this fund have been successful.
Before saying anything else, it is important to note that this fund can only partially alleviate some of the consequences of the serious economic and financial crisis, in view of the imposed budgetary restrictions (which limit it to EUR 500 million per year) and the restrictive eligibility criteria with which it operates.
We emphasise the urgent need for a real plan to support the production and creation of jobs with rights in the countries of the European Union.
I am very pleased that the European Parliament has today decided to grant EUR 6.2 million in assistance to workers made redundant from the automotive supplier Karmann.
The European Union is thus contributing 65% of the EUR 9 million available in total.
These funds are to be used to offer around 1 800 people additional re-education and training measures to enable them to find work again as quickly as possible.
By doing this, the EU is showing very clearly that it is willing and able to provide support even to individuals in crisis situations.
However, in addition to this individual assistance for the workers affected, the European Union also needs to take additional measures to deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
However, the Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States must work harder to promote fair competitive conditions in their international economic relations in order to avoid disadvantaging individual countries or sectors.
in writing. - This proposal on behalf of the mobilisation of EGAF for German workers - as well as the proposal from the Lithuanian refrigeration sector - was to be among the first beneficiaries of the fund in 2010.
The situation in Germany is particularly difficult due to sheer numbers; 2 476 redundancies are concentrated in the same area, around the same industry.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in a globalised context.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in helping them have access to new employment in the future.
I voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the EGF to support the 2 476 people made redundant in Germany's automotive industry.
At European level, we are facing in the automotive manufacturing industry similar situations in Sweden, where 2 258 workers have been made redundant, in Austria, where 774 redundancies have been made in companies manufacturing motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, and in Belgium, where the industry has made more than 2 500 employees redundant.
Throughout Europe, more than 8 000 jobs will be lost due to restructuring of the automotive manufacturing industry.
However, this is a short-term measure which will not resolve the problem of disappearing jobs.
The EU needs a strong industrial policy in the automotive manufacturing industry in order to keep existing jobs and even create new ones.
In May 2009, the European Commission allowed deviation from the provisions of the regulation in exceptional circumstances and taking into account the situation that has come about during the economic and financial crisis allowed assistance to be targeted at the unemployed.
I voted for this report since financial aid from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) will help redundant workers to return to and integrate into the labour market.
During the financial and economic crisis, the level of unemployment in Lithuania grew significantly over 12 months, and it is therefore necessary to adapt to the effects of the crisis and ensure at least temporary financial assistance in order to provide jobs for the redundant workers of the company Snaigė.
I am pleased that the long awaited vote on the allocation of temporary financial assistance took place today, as this sensitive matter concerning the Lithuanian company and its redundant workers was delayed and some of the workers of the company in question lost their jobs as far back as November 2008.
This promotion must be understood by the European institutions and national governments as a crucial element in confronting the challenges facing the European productive sector.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in a globalised context.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in helping them have access to new employment in the future.
In Estonia, over 30 000 people in the building sector have lost their jobs in the last eighteen months, and I would therefore call on the Estonian Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs to ask boldly for help from European Union funds, which were envisaged for this type of situation.
I am pleased that today, we had a vote on the allocation of funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), with the aim of earmarking EUR 1 118 893 in financial assistance for workers made redundant from 128 companies in the construction sector in Lithuania.
Therefore, in this situation, we must show solidarity with the workers who have been made redundant precisely because of changes in the global economy and the reduction in jobs in certain sectors caused by the financial crisis.
The fact that more and more European countries have sought the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) makes it clear that the effects of this phenomenon have been felt by all sides, justifying in itself the name which has been given to the fund.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a consequence of significant changes in the structure of international trade.
The European Union must use all measures at its disposal to react to the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis, and within this context, the EGF can play a crucial role in aiding the reintegration of workers who have been made redundant.
The interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 allows the mobilisation of the EGF within the annual ceiling of EUR 500 million.
The present proposal relates to the mobilisation of a total sum of EUR 1 118 893 from the EGF to assist Lithuania, with the aim of supporting the workers made redundant in the 128 firms operating in the civil construction sector.
It needs to be emphasised again that, within the context of mobilising the EGF, the Commission must not systematically transfer subsidies for payments from the European Social Fund, as the EGF was created as a specifically separate instrument, with its own objectives and prerogatives.
The requests for action by this Fund have been successful.
This instance involved responding to a request for assistance by Lithuania as a result of the redundancies that have occurred at 128 firms active in the civil construction sector.
Before saying anything else, it is important to note that this fund can only partially alleviate some of the consequences of the serious economic and financial crisis, in view of the budgetary restrictions imposed (which limit it to EUR 500 million per year) and the restrictive eligibility criteria with which it operates.
We emphasise the urgent need for a real plan to support the production and creation of jobs with rights in the countries of the European Union.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in a globalised context.
In this particular case, the aim is to help those made redundant by more than 120 companies in the civil construction sector that were forced to close their doors due to the great crisis affecting the sector.
It is estimated that these sectors can create around 2 million jobs across Europe by 2020.
As a result of the economic and financial crisis, during the first and second quarters of 2009, the volume of activity in the construction sector in Lithuania fell by 42.81% and 48.04% respectively, compared with the early part of 2008.
The construction sector has been particularly affected, accounting for the loss of nearly 10% of jobs in Lithuania in 2008 alone.
I wholeheartedly support this initiative and am voting in favour of the assistance for construction company workers, who have suffered from the current global crisis and the globalisation process.
Both reports - on the situation in the construction sector and on the company Snaig- represent the most acute unemployment cases in Lithuania.
The construction sector is one of the hardest hit in Lithuania.
The situation is very similar with Snaig- the support of EUR 258 000 from the EGF would target 650 redundancies in a city that has one of the highest unemployment rates - nearing 20% now.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created in 2006 in order to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of significant changes in the structure of international trade and to assist in their reintegration into the labour market.
From 1 May 2009, the remit of the EGF has been expanded and it now includes assistance to workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis.
At this time when we are facing this severe economic and financial crisis, one of the principal consequences is an increase in unemployment.
We voted in favour of this resolution so as to ensure the environmental sustainability of the Atlantic regions, particularly the islands of the European Union.
This protocol, which will allow a variety of forms of pollution in the Atlantic to be combated, is crucial for ensuring the fight against contamination or the risk of pollution in seas or on coasts, through a mechanism that is aimed at ensuring cooperation between the contracting parties in case of a pollution-causing accident, and which will oblige them to establish and implement their own emergency structures and plans.
in writing. - I voted no to this report and in doing so, was mindful of a good news story in respect of our marine environment.
Originally started in March 2000 by the Dutch Government and Dutch fishermen, the project was aimed at clearing the North Sea of litter, using fishing nets.
The aim of these agreements is to secure individual and collective measures in case of the risk of pollution, or pollution that is already happening at sea or in coastal areas.
Although the Lisbon Agreement was signed in 1990, it never entered into effect, due to a territorial dispute between Spain and Morocco.
The rapporteur mentions in the report two persistent and growing problems relating to pollution of the sea and the coastal areas, the first of which is the vast floating mass of plastic and rubber items in the Pacific Ocean, covering an area 34 times greater than a medium-sized Member State such as the Netherlands.
This report is an example of constructive work aimed at solving the main problems in the area of marine and coastal pollution, and I am therefore supporting it with my vote.
The Council now proposes to conclude, on behalf of the European Union, an additional protocol which will finally allow the agreement to enter into force.
The additional protocol, which found a solution to the conflict and an acceptable wording for subheading c) of Article 3, was only signed in May 2008 by Portugal, Spain, France and Morocco.
With the conclusion of this additional protocol, the Lisbon Agreement can enter into force, 20 years after it was signed.
I believe that, in the name of the environmental rules promoted by the EU, and once an agreement has been reached on the additional protocol, the Lisbon Agreement can finally be put into practice.
Each of these agreements covers different parts of the seas surrounding the EU Member States and is intended to enable individual or collective intervention by the contracting parties in the event of pollution or the threat of pollution of the seas or coasts as a result of an accident.
in writing. - (PT) Almost 50% of the population of the European Union lives in coastal regions, and this fact alone demands redoubled attention to the integrated preservation and management of these regions.
It is also important to point out that 80% of the rubbish and pollution in the sea originates from the land, which is why there needs to be a concerted strategy which also involves combating this problem on the land.
The network consists of the Helsinki Convention, the Bonn Agreement, the Barcelona Convention and, in this case, the Lisbon Agreement, each of which covers different parts of the sea around EU countries, aiming at individual or collective intervention of the contracting parties in case of pollution or a threat of pollution of the seas or coasts, in order to protect the environment and citizens' health.
The policy of consumer protection aims to promote the health, safety, economic and legal interests of consumers, along with their right to information.
The European Union's internal market has expanded considerably in recent years, currently covering nearly 500 million consumers in 27 Member States.
Standardising consumer protection principles and rules at European Union level and improving the mechanisms supporting their application is an achievable objective, without any assumption that the products and services offered in all 27 Member States will reach the same level of quality in the short or medium term.
The current difficult economic situation which the whole of Europe is going through is highlighted by a fall in incomes and rise in unemployment, which is reflected across the Community in the real need to manage the daily shopping better.
The consolidation of the structures for monitoring the market in all Member States to ensure that the products being marketed meet the highest safety standards is a solution to suit how things stand at the moment.
The electricity market must also adopt a set of measures aimed at total openness, for the benefit of European consumers.
The rapporteur has taken up the issue of consumer protection on the basis of the scoreboards in an acceptable way.
For this reason, this policy must allow European consumers and members of the public to have access to high quality products and services at competitive prices, whilst at the same time benefiting from a high level of protection of their rights.
Given our separate legal institutions, it is essential that these powers are returned to the Scottish parliament so that Scotland can play a full role in the ongoing EU debate on these matters.
Consumers must be aware of their rights.
There is no doubt that introducing EU regulations on consumer protection in individual EU countries is beneficial to our citizens.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Hedh on consumer protection.
This own-initiative report rightly recognises the crucial role of consumer organisations, which are the ideal organisations for alerting public authorities to the problems consumers experience in their daily lives.
in writing. - (SV) The free market within the EU makes the Union a strong player, but also means that consumers must be given good, clear information about the range available on the market.
Civil society plays an important part in achieving relevant consumer protection, but this may take different forms in different countries without this having a detrimental effect on the result.
The principle of subsidiarity must apply in the matter of the establishment of consumer protection authorities and consumer ombudsmen, as well as in the wording concerning the curriculum in schools.
The EU must set minimum levels and objectives for common consumer policy, but should not decide in every detail exactly how the Member States are to achieve these objectives.
However, consumer rights and consumer protection in the internal market are so important that I voted in favour of the report despite the concerns that I have just outlined.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of this report.
Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union reaffirms that consumer protection requirements shall be taken into account in defining and executing other Union policies and activities.
The Commission must ensure that consumers' interests are genuinely integrated in all policies and must examine in its impact studies the potential effects of any new legislative act and of policies that directly or indirectly affect consumers.
While consumer complaints are an important indicator of market failures, their absence does not always mean that markets are working well, since there are times when consumers tend to complain less, because of different consumer traditions or because of their perception of the likelihood that their complaint will be taken into account.
Consumer organisations have a crucial role to play in alerting public authorities to the problems that consumers face.
I voted in favour of this report on SOLVIT.
European consumers should be fully aware of their rights and this problem-solving network should be easily accessible to everyone.
I fully support the demand in the report for better and wider advertising of SOLVIT's services and I agree that information about the rights of citizens and businesses in the internal market should be clarified so that everyone can take advantage of these rights in their everyday lives.
in writing. - To enjoy the benefits of the internal market, consumers must have an effective means of redress following misapplication of internal market law.
Thus, I believe that Member States should put greater efforts and means into promoting SOLVIT and raising awareness amongst citizens and businesses.
Although the internal market presently works relatively well, it is also true that, on occasion, errors or problems of interpretation arise with respect to the rights of members of the public and firms who attempt to make the most of the advantages that the internal market provides.
I voted in favour of the present report since the SOLVIT network has shown itself to be of huge importance to the resolution of all sorts of problems, from the member of the public who is searching for another Member State in which to study, work or be reunited with a partner, etc., through to firms who have encountered problems with the public authorities, problems with VAT refunds or other issues.
This informal network for solving problems related to the internal market has been crucial in providing free assistance to both members of the public and businesses in solving specific problems with the public authorities.
I believe, therefore, that Member States must intensify their efforts to provide information to members of the public and businesses on the rights that they enjoy within the internal market by making use of the increase in financial and human resources and the training of employees on the SOLVIT network on internal market rules.
I call on the Member States and the Commission to promote greater access to the SOLVIT network for members of the public and businesses, with a view to the effective implementation of the internal market rules.
The internal market is not, nor should it be, a merely bureaucratic structure.
For all these reasons, I support the Buşoi report on SOLVIT.
The SOLVIT network has shown that it is a very useful instrument for solving the problems - without legal proceedings - encountered by citizens and businesses as a result of the misapplication of internal market law by public authorities.
I voted in favour of the report because I believe that strengthening the SOLVIT network can really help improve the legal framework of the internal market, which we are trying so hard to build.
The SOLVIT network was set up by the Commission and the Member States in order to resolve, via non-judicial means, any problems that members of the public and businesses face as a result of the incorrect application of legislation concerning the internal market.
This network has shown itself to be effective in the resolution of problems, but it is still underutilised by the general public.
For this reason, the Commission intends to promote the rapid and complete application of the SOLVIT network, increasing transparency in order to overcome obstacles to freedom of movement and providing the public with information on their rights, so as to fulfil the potential of the internal market.
Given that many of the problems which could be dealt with through the SOLVIT network are currently resolved judicially, increasing the time and money wasted by members of the public and firms, and given that the SOLVIT network could provide an alternative and more rapid and efficient solution to legal disputes, I believe that making the SOLVIT network fully operational will benefit the workings of the internal market as well as the protection of the interests and rights of members of the public and firms.
The Member States must intensify their efforts to provide information to members of the public and businesses on the rights that they enjoy within the internal market, thus allowing them to exercise these rights.
The services provided by SOLVIT must be made known to members of the public and businesses in an effective way.
The SOLVIT network, which aims to be an effective solution to the problems of the internal market, has been very successful in solving these problems.
This SOLVIT network was set up in 2002 in order to address problems that members of the public and businesses face as a result of the incorrect application of European legislation relating to the internal market.
There is a SOLVIT centre in every Member State of the European Union (as well as in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein).
I voted for this report to give SOLVIT centres a boost in resolving the complaints submitted by both citizens and companies.
The internal market, with more than 1 500 frequently complex documents, seems to Europeans to be a pretty incomprehensible 'big contraption', which, to boot, is not always correctly implemented in the Member States (I am thinking, in particular, of the recognition of professional qualifications).
I voted in favour of the report on SOLVIT.
Nonetheless, despite its excellent success rates (more than 80% of cases are successfully resolved), and despite the fact that it represents a rapid, extrajudicial and free solution to the problem of obtaining redress, SOLVIT is still relatively unknown among the general public.
All the Member States, as well as Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, have established a national SOLVIT centre.
The report's recommendation with regard to extending the transitional system for the movement of animals until the end of December 2011 is necessary and timely.
Madam President, I voted in favour of the report on the proposed resolution of the European Parliament and the Council concerning veterinary conditions for the non-commercial movement of pets, even though I do not agree with the entire text of the proposal.
This is already the second consecutive extension of the transitional period, which I consider to be highly irregular from the perspective of EU legislative practice.
Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 also establishes a so-called transitional regime allowing Member States to apply stricter requirements for the entry and movement of these animals on their territory.
Regulation (EC) 998/2003, which the Commission proposes to amend, establishes harmonised norms on the non-commercial movement of pets inside the European Union, as well as their entry into it.
It envisages, however, a temporary system under which some Member States may impose more restrictive conditions in the case of certain illnesses such as rabies, echinococcosis and tick infestation.
The importance of the free movement of pets within the European Union area notwithstanding, I reiterate my conviction that it is fundamental that such pets must comply with all sanitary criteria so that they do not present a risk to human or animal health.
This report provides rules for the movement of pets within the European area and how this should be done in accordance with the objectives of preventing the spread of diseases, particularly rabies.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Mrs de Brún's report.
Public and animal health matters are also of vital importance and I consider that the rapporteur has done a good job in striking a balance.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which will allow Member States to continue with measures to protect against the spread of rabies but which will also lead to the free, safe movement of pets throughout Europe after 2011.
The extension of the derogation for certain countries until 2011 will allow them to continue with tests and health checks for diseases such as rabies.
This transitional period is an important step towards the eventual free, safe movement of pets in the European Union.
The EU 2020 strategy is a document that offers much hope.
The European Commission should take greater responsibility and responsibly supervise the implementation of national government crisis management plans, while assessing very clearly the effects of such reforms on the people.
The Schengen Agreement is a treaty between European countries on the policy of freedom of movement of individuals within the Schengen area.
Any person who is in possession of a document which proves that he legally resides in a Member State should be able to move freely within an area where there are no internal borders.
However, not all countries are yet in compliance with their obligation to provide a residence permit to the nationals of third countries who are holders of this form of long-stay visa.
For this reason, it is inconsistent that a student who has obtained a visa to take a course in Portugal should not have the option to go, for example, to Belgium to gather information from a specialised library for the writing of his thesis.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Coelho, for once more managing to achieve an agreement at first reading, which will allow this situation to be resolved before the Visa Code enters into force next month.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is very important that once the movement of third-country nationals in the Schengen area has been simplified, security guarantees in the Member States are not infringed.
The implementation of this regulation should not reduce security, since it provides for the duty of states to check a person's data in the Schengen Information System before issuing a long-stay visa and, if necessary, asking other EU Member States about that person.
I welcome the adoption of this regulation by a very large majority - by 562 votes to 29, with 51 abstentions.
From now on, any third-country national holding a long-stay visa issued by a Member State will be able to travel to the other Member States for three months in any six-month period, under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit.
The creation through the Schengen Agreement of a European area without border controls was an important step in constructing an open internal market with free movement of people and goods.
For this same reason, the crucial aim upon which the agreement is based is to allow the free movement of individuals within an area where there are no internal borders.
For this reason, I agree with the Commission's proposal, in the wording suggested by Parliament, to treat long-stay visas as residence permits, thus ensuring freedom of movement for their holders.
In accordance with the Community legislation in place, nationals of third countries who hold a long-stay visa (a visa for a stay in excess of three months) are not authorised to travel to other Member States during their stay or to travel through other Member States when they return to their country of origin, since there is no provision for this in the Schengen Convention.
The new rules proposed mean that a long-stay visa will have the same effect as a residence permit in terms of free movement within the Schengen area, without internal borders, or that a person who holds a long-stay visa issued by a Member State will be authorised to travel to other Member States for three months within a period of six months, and under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit.
As we know, at present and in accordance with Community legislation which is in force, nationals of third countries who hold long-stay visas who might be, for example, students who wish to make a study trip to another Member State, scientists, academics, relatives of nationals of third countries and EU citizens, are not allowed to travel to other Member States during their stay or to pass through other Member States when returning to their country of origin, a situation which is not envisaged in the Schengen Agreement.
in writing. - I abstained on the Coelho report as it deals with aspects of Schengen which are not applicable in Scotland.
It is a necessity because, due to an extremely contentious practice carried out by Member States, which no longer convert long-stay visas into residence permits, we have ended up with absurd situations in which any third-country national who is legally resident on EU territory by virtue of a D visa is prevented from travelling within the other Member States of the Schengen area.
Adoption of this text is also urgent in view of the forthcoming entry into force of the Community Code on Visas, which abolishes D + C visas.
The previous legislation, which did not allow a citizen of a third country with a long-stay visa granted by a Member State to travel to other Member States, did not meet the mobility needs of the majority of those citizens.
In this way, these changes are rectifying this anomalous situation while still continuing to safeguard all security rules on the movement of citizens of third countries within the EU.
It is for that reason that I voted against the report.
in writing. - I voted, together with my group, in favour of this report because it points out that the proposals made in this framework seek to make it easier for third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State to move in the Schengen area on the basis of a D long-stay visa issued by that Member State.
This will make it possible for anyone in possession of a document showing that he is legally resident in a Member State to move freely in the Schengen area for short periods of no more than three months in any half year.
The free movement of individuals is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, and the Schengen area was created in order to put this objective into practice effectively.
In this context, I support the new measures which have been adopted, taking into account the fact that the free movement of nationals of third countries, that is, residents of a Member State on the basis of a type D long-stay visa travelling to other Member States within the Schengen area, is sometimes rendered difficult as a result of a delay in the conversion of their visa into a residence permit.
For these reasons, and given that the adopted measures not only leave matters relating to the granting of visas unaffected, including those relating to security issues, but also constitute a natural and necessary development of the Schengen concept, I voted in favour of the document.
The Fianna Fáil members of the European Parliament, Pat the Cope Gallagher and Liam Aylward, strongly oppose what is proposed in this report regarding the introduction of a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB in English).
The question of taxation is within the competence of the individual Member States and the Irish Government has the right to use its power of veto in relation to any tax measures, including CCCTB.
Strong competitiveness is also important within the telecommunications sector with measures to promote competitiveness through preferential tariffs.
I would even stress the importance of monitoring the competitive behaviour of fuel markets within the European Union.
on behalf of the ECR Group, in writing. - The ECR Group is a firm supporter of strong and effective competition policy as a tool both for protecting the consumer and encouraging fair access to markets.
We are happy to support the actions taken by the Commission in recent years in pursuit of these aims, and, in particular, their actions against unfair State aid.
The economic crisis, the effects of which we are still experiencing, requires exceptional measures, such as State aid.
A single market that functions properly is the key to a healthy economy and, in all certainty, economic recovery.
Policies and effective rules relating to competition have always been crucial for the healthy coexistence of all economic operators in the euro area.
Although the EU has been greatly affected by the recent global economic crisis, the truth is that a strong currency, a consistent single market, sound public finances and a good system of social protection have contributed greatly to helping us survive the effects of the crisis.
However, the State aid distributed by various Member States without any concern for the good of the European Union as a whole could lead to significant distortions in competition.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs in 't Veld, which welcomes the Commission's 2008 report on competition policy.
in writing. - I, together with my group, the Greens/EFA, voted in favour of the in 't Veld report on the annual Report on Competition Policy (2008) because it provides an opportunity for Parliament to set out its priorities and its assessment of the way the Commission conducts its competition policy.
I am glad that, in line with the vote in the ECON Committee, the in 't Veld report was adopted (as expected) by a large majority (Greens in favour, as in the case of major political groups).
The proper functioning and competitiveness of the European market means the consumer is able to make use of the system of competition by choosing products, services and lower prices.
Unfortunately, the number of infringement proceedings remains too high in the Member States.
I voted in favour of the present report as I consider it imperative that the Member States incorporate internal market legislation into their national legislation in a timely way, because the internal market can only operate properly if EU regulations relating to its operation are correctly implemented and applied, and if checks on compliance are made.
The creation of a stable and innovative internal market which caters for the needs of consumers and in which firms can maximise the creation of new jobs cannot coexist with systematic delays in the implementation of Community legislation and failure to apply directives.
It is individuals and business that suffer most from the delay in implementation of policies relating to the internal market through the costs that result from reduced choice, less competition and less open markets.
With this in mind, I believe it is important for Parliament to apply pressure regarding the application of internal market regulations.
This is a fundamental goal for an internal market in a period of economic crisis.
For its part, the Commission should do more to support the Member States throughout the transposition period, by means of dialogue and the exchange of information to resolve problems before the end of the deadline for transposition.
After the most recent publication (March 2010) of results by the Internal Market Scoreboard, it has been shown that the percentage of directives on the internal market which have not been incorporated into national legislation is 0.7%, a lower result than that presented in July 2009 which was, as noted by the rapporteur, 1.0%.
There are 22 directives whose deadline for transposition expired more than two years ago.
Furthermore, 6% of the directives were not transposed by all Member States, meaning that 100 directives on the internal market were not as effective as they could have been within the EU.
The Member States and the Commission must act decisively in response to this situation.
I endorse the view that the Commission should publish the directives that were not implemented in each Member State on its website, so that this situation becomes public knowledge.
Contrary to what the report claims, it is clear today that the process of liberalising markets and privatising public services, which is still ongoing, has not brought any appreciable gains in terms of prices, quality of service or reduction in public spending.
Nobody ever questions the intrinsic quality of this legislation, or even the real need for or relevance of the 90 000 pages of text which represent what you call the 'acquis communautaire', or of the approximately 1 700 directives concerning the internal market.
All the shortcomings are said to be the responsibility of the Member States, which nonetheless have less and less room for manoeuvre in adapting these documents to national circumstances, given that the most minute detail is fixed, while the treaties indicate an obligation to produce results but not resources.
The Internal Market Scoreboard is a very important tool which gives information on the state of transposition of European legislation by the Member States.
The internal market must also gain the support of our citizens.
in writing. - The Internal Market Scoreboard provides a useful overview of the application of Community rules in areas of vital importance to European consumers and businesses.
I think we should support the idea that in future, the scoreboard should incorporate information on the implementation of internal market legislation in Member States that are still found wanting.
Thirdly, I would like to express my support for the development of remedies to ensure the legal protection of consumers.
In Finland, our system for the outofcourt settlement of consumer disputes and the consumer ombudsman institution work very well.
However, if this is to become a reality, Community directives need to be adopted by all Member States in the same way, without exceptions.
The Internal Market Scoreboard and the Consumer Panel have a crucial role in improving the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - I finally decided to vote against the report because we failed in eliminating Article 10 from the text.
The maintenance of this article is crucial because it calls for establishing systematic 'internal market tests' in order to verify ex ante whether EU legislative proposals comply with all internal market rules.
I therefore declare that I voted in favour of all the points on which voting took place in the present session.
