It is important for the fiscal consolidation required by the Treaties on European Union, fiscal consolidation in the euro area and in the whole of the Union, and it is very important for consolidating an effective and lasting economic recovery in the European Union.
The Commission's forecasts confirm that the economic recovery is happening in the European Union and that after experiencing the biggest recession in its history, the European Union as a whole is forecast growth of 1% in 2010 - this year - and 1.75% in 2011.
These are the European Commission's forecasts, and undoubtedly the decision to lend to Greece is making a decisive contribution to ensuring that the economic recovery in the euro area and in the whole of the European Union is both effective and lasting.
I am convinced that this is what will be said in the document that Commissioner Rehn is preparing on the subject and will present to the Commission on 12 May.
I am certain that the Heads of State or Government will adopt this financial aid package for Greece, which is, in short, as they said in their statement on 11 February, a commitment to financial stability, to the economic stability of the euro area and of the whole of the European Union.
It is important that we acknowledge the courage that Prime Minister Papandreou and his Government have shown.
This assistance will be decisive in helping Greece to get its economy back on track and will preserve the financial stability of the euro area as a whole.
The debate will of course be a starting point, because decisions need to be debated further and ultimately taken with all the 27 Member States - the euro-area Member States but also all the other Member States of the European Union.
Whilst we have to speed up our processes, the fact is that the joint action of the 27 - unparalleled anywhere in the world - provides the best possible foundation for our joint future in an ever more interlinked world.
This includes divergences in their competitiveness, as this is one crucial element that causes other types of imbalances.
But it must also be said that we cannot ignore the fact that the budgetary deterioration in 2009 was largely due to the working of the automatic stabilisers in the face of an unprecedented decline in economic activity caused by a financial crisis not originating in Europe.
We need strong and stable European financial services markets to deliver the investments needed for future growth in line with the Europe 2020 vision.
The European Systemic Risk Board and the three supervisory authorities should start working at the beginning of 2011.
The Commission is already working on a fundamental overhaul of derivatives markets to increase transparency and safety in these markets.
We have also launched a reflection on whether further measures may be needed to ensure the appropriate rating of sovereign debt in particular.
Reforms that will ensure that our Member States stop taking decisions on their own, without consulting their partners - with whom they do, after all, share a currency, values and, hence, a common destiny - about their budgetary priorities, their fiscal priorities and their social priorities.
These answers are our responsibility; we must provide them without hesitation, or else they will be imposed on us more quickly than we think.
I do not consider myself naive, but I do believe that the moment of truth has arrived for Europe, and I propose that we rise to these challenges with courage, with a sense of responsibility, just as Europe's founding fathers, those founding fathers of Europe who had no hesitation in taking courageous and visionary decisions - Schuman, De Gasperi, Adenauer and the others - did 60 years ago.
Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that we are going through may be a good thing if we have the courage to take the right measures, but it may be very serious if we avoid the necessary reforms.
We share this responsibility jointly, and time will not stand still for us.
In order to achieve all of these ambitious objectives, we must first learn to work together.
We must condemn the aggressive and speculative attitude of some financial agents, but we must also understand that we have designed a monetary system that is insufficient in times of crisis.
The future of our continent is at stake.
The future of Europe depends on our intelligence, our solidarity and our firmness.
I for my part hope that this system, once formalised on 7 May, will be able to fully achieve its objective, for the simple reason that we have no other instrument.
I therefore hope that, on 7 May, the first decision, the first lesson to be learnt from what has happened over the last five months will be that we say - in the hope that this works - that we are now going to ask the Commission to propose a European loan that can stop speculation against the euro immediately.
I also hope - although Mr Rehn has already begun to make proposals - that the second lesson that we learn from all this is that we need to introduce a number of structural reforms, namely a preventive chapter in the Stability and Growth Pact - which Mr Rehn has proposed - a European monetary fund, a structural mechanism that can be used straight away and, thirdly, a 2020 strategy that is far more robust than the strategy that is down on paper today.
Then, we also need reform with regard to the rating agencies, even if the latter are like weather forecasts: either they are too flexible and we want them to be slightly more inflexible, or they are too inflexible and we want them to be slightly more flexible.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, we in this House have the opportunity to take an initiative to amend the Treaties.
There is a way of shoring up the Greek budget, and it is simple: the European Union should take an initiative aimed at disarmament in the region.
I call on the Commission to give an account here, in the European Parliament, and at the Council, of all the weapons sold by Europeans to Greece and Turkey over the last few years.
Germany has 200 000.
This is completely absurd: a country with 11 million inhabitants has 100 000 soldiers!
Let us put that to Greece.
It may well be more effective than cutting the pay of someone who earns EUR 1 000.
We first talked about 35 billion, then 60 billion, and now 110 billion.
The problem in Athens, Mr Cohn-Bendit, affects the Dutch, Flemings, Germans - all of us - and the contamination risk remains.
As I see it, however, we also need an exit procedure for countries that can no longer cope in the euro area.
Mr Cohn-Bendit has already spoken very convincingly about this.
I do not know if you remember that Spain - the country that is next in line - has legalised two million illegal immigrants in the last 15 years.
These are all countries with socialist governments that you have supported with European funds for years and which have made a mess of things by living beyond their means.
The country must reintroduce the drachma, as its membership of the euro area is untenable.
This Europe is faulty, and northern European citizens will soon refuse to pay any more for your mistakes and for the lax socialist governments in these countries.
There is an obvious lack of solidarity of the European Union's leaders - Germany's in particular - regarding the agreement on Greece's situation.
This decision must be changed at the next summit.
The richer countries in the euro area must adopt the principle of economic and social cohesion once and for all.
