Amendment of Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of Member States and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (debate) The next item is the report by Agustín Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of Member States and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement - C7-0162/2010 -.
Legislative power currently lies with the Legislative Yuan, which has 113 members.
According to data supplied by the Commission, in 2006-2008, only 45 illegal immigrants throughout the entire European Union were found to have come from Taiwan.
The Taiwanese authorities have nevertheless undertaken to ensure that a visa waiver is in place for nationals of those countries by 11 November, in other words, tomorrow.
As the report says, we expect that, before the measures enter into force, Taiwan will lift the visa requirement for all 27 Member States as well.
Romanian, Bulgarian and Cypriot citizens will be free to travel to Taiwan without a visa as from 11 November - which is tomorrow, so you can book your tickets!
Furthermore, Taiwan will extend the allowed period for EU citizens to remain in Taiwan to 90 days on the entry into force of the EU visa waiver.
There was only one amendment to the Commission proposal, proposed both in the Council and in the European Parliament, aiming to exclude the 60 000 so-called Overseas Taiwanese nationals.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent support and cooperation on this file.
Mr President, firstly, I, too, must take my turn in congratulating the rapporteur and all my fellow Members who worked on this report.
So when our fellow citizens in Europe learn that the European Union is making it easier for citizens from third countries, such as Taiwan and other countries we recently approved, to enter the European Union, they logically wonder if that is putting their safety at greater risk.
On Monday this week, ministers adopted an important decision for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Institutional reforms, a dynamic civil society and greater respect for civil liberties and citizens' rights have resulted in increased stability, including political stability, in Taiwan.
Things are different now, and I hope that the agreement we are about to conclude will facilitate and improve political relations between the politicians here in the EU and in Taiwan, and will also lead to Taiwan's deeper involvement in the international community, on various levels.
The citizens of Taiwan are therefore welcome in the European Union and in Padania. (HU) Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
The assessment mechanism must work in such a way as to ensure that visa requirements are immediately reinstated for all countries which backtrack on the aforementioned criteria or which introduce visa requirements for the nationals of one or more Member States.
It is precisely for this reason that I believe that security guarantees should be requested from all countries before they are given the green light for their citizens to enter the territory of the European Union without a visa. (HU) I, too, would like to welcome the fact that the issue of the visa waiver for Taiwan has been placed on Parliament's agenda.
I, too, should like to emphasise that the changes that have occurred in Taiwan over the last 50 to 60 years are very important.
Mr President, I fully support what has been said by our rapporteurs, Mr Díaz de Mera and Mr Kovatchev.
If we move in this direction, the visa-free regime is an essential element in deepening relations between the EU and Taiwan. (RO) First of all, I want to congratulate Mr Díaz de Mera for the report he has compiled.
Taiwan is going to enjoy a visa waiver for the whole of the European Union and lift the visa requirement as well for Romania, Bulgaria and Cyprus.
Based on the principle of reciprocity and solidarity among Member States, the Commission must shift from a passive stance of accepting a fait accompli to adopting an active role in this process of establishing full reciprocity regarding the visa waiver for all Member States.
For the rest, I have confidence in our rapporteur, who has raised the prospect of this, and I will vote in favour of this motion as a whole.
As I said, I hope that Taiwan will also resolve the problems and thereby also allow all EU citizens to travel to Taiwan without the need for a visa.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to once again thank the rapporteur and the plenary for their support for putting Taiwan on the positive list.
