Eritrean refugees held hostage in Sinai The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the subject of Eritrean refugees held hostage in Sinai.
author. - Mr President, about 250 Eritrean migrants are believed to be held hostage in the Sinai desert and inhumane treatment and rape are reported while these people await a ransom that needs to be paid to human traffickers for their release.
Recent disclosures from the WikiLeaks website show that US diplomats described Afewerki as a cruel and defiant leader.
Mr President, every year, there are thousands of people who, driven by the difficult situation in the Horn of Africa, try to cross the border between Egypt and Israel.
According to the information provided by NGO activists working for the protection of these emigrants, incredible sums were requested, reaching up to USD 8 000 for the release of each person.
If the resettlement package had been adopted, we would now have the emergency procedure that Parliament inserted into the report that I myself wrote and which was adopted here with 500 votes: the European Commission would be able to start an emergency procedure to resettle these refugees.
Mr President, it is thanks to a telephone call between an Eritrean priest in Italy and an Eritrean hostage that the European public learned that unprincipled human traffickers are now threatening to shoot the stranded Eritrean hostages if a ransom is not paid.
This brutal crime prompted a closer look at what is happening at the border between Egypt and Israel, an area in which an increasing number of refugees are stranded as they try to enter Europe or Israel, but lack the necessary papers.
The Israeli Government talks of more than 1 000 migrants trying to enter their country without papers each month and has started to increase security and monitoring along the border.
I believe that we should aim to improve the situation in Eritrea itself and in other countries in the Horn of Africa, since improving the situation in African countries may reduce migratory pressure.
In fact, the Egyptian authorities are practising a policy of shoot to kill and 85 migrants have already died in Sinai since 2007, according to a Human Rights Watch report.
We call on the Egyptian authorities to comply with their obligations as regards human rights and migrants and refugees in particular, and for them to work with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.
The 250 hostages have suffered an inhuman and degrading treatment, and their situation is getting worse.
The EU should act as a mediator between Eritrea and the Eritrean refugees to ensure their safe return home. (RO) Mr President, the vast majority of Eritrean citizens that can now be found in the Sinai Desert have fled out of the way of an oppressive regime and, as such, should be regarded as refugees according to UN standards.
However, the matter of greatest concern, I believe, is the inhumane treatment these migrants are subjected to when held as hostages in the desert in expectation of a ransom.
I believe that human trafficking in this area should be combated with other methods, and I think that access on the part of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is necessary in order to ensure vital assistance for these people. (PL) Mr President, Eritrean refugees are in a tragic situation.
The European Union delegation in Cairo has close contacts with local civil-society organisations and liaises with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' regional representation in Cairo.
The EU has expressed our concerns, as well as our strong belief, that the Egyptian authorities should take appropriate measures to liberate these people and grant them appropriate protection.
The latest occasion when the point was raised was at the meeting of the EU-Egypt Association Committee on 14 December in Cairo.
