One achievement we can take as a starting point is surely that represented by the guarantees and investments in venture capital provided for in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP).
I can assure you that the Commission is convinced that loan guarantees are necessary, whether at the European or at regional level.
This is why the Commission will be representing a coherent series of instruments intended for SMEs.
We are therefore inviting Member States, who are codecision partners as regards the application of structural funds, to join us in this task.
On 28 October last year, I launched the SME Finance Forum, with the aim of monitoring the progress of SME funding, promoting best practice and encouraging new solutions.
The market situation and the legal framework under which SMEs access funding are being kept under review.
The Commission's proposal will include a thorough appraisal of the micro-economic and macro-economic effects of such measures, which will ensure that our proposals are well thought out, in terms of their timescale and impact, and also take into account what is happening in other parts of the world.
In this period when finances are restricted, it is clear that it is becoming ever more important to spend these resources more wisely.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Commissioner Tajani for his statement.
The Commission must, of course, ensure that, in the next generation of programmes, much greater importance is attached to mezzanine financing, and that greater coherence is created within the SME support measures that are already in place, in other words, programmes like the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), the structural funds, the Seventh Framework Programme for research, and so on.
We can see that by the end of 2010, about 100 000 SMEs received some form of bank guarantee within the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), which is a huge number, but for 23 million enterprises, this is very little.
This is likely to grow by 200 000 SMEs, but even then, this is little compared to 23 million.
However, these rules have increased the loan costs for small businesses.
Commissioner Tajani, you spoke about simplicity and flexibility and you believe that these attributes should be reflected in the EU's programmes and financing facilities.
As I said, we have 20 million small businesses in Europe, but we also have over 20 million unemployed in Europe.
Mr President, we are talking about a sector of the economy which is of absolutely crucial significance, because taken together, small and medium-sized enterprises are, in fact, the European Union's biggest employer.
Furthermore, SMEs, which are often family-run businesses, were worst affected by the economic crisis.
With the new financial framework, we must focus on simplifying the rules for small and medium-sized enterprises - rules that have been a major obstacle for smaller businesses in particular - and think, for example, about setting up a point of single contact for access to European funding.
We must therefore try specifically to make the route as easy as possible for a sector that employs over 100 million people and is, without doubt, the most powerful engine for growth and development. (BG) Mr President, I would go along with the general view I sense in this House regarding small and medium-sized enterprises and give my wholehearted support to what has just been said, in other words, that the businesses that have been hardest hit by the economic crisis are SMEs.
The JEREMIE and JASMINE programmes, as well as the Erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, are extremely important in helping people to get to know the markets.
We must not forget that two thirds of jobs in the European Union are created by SMEs.
In this context, I should like to recall that between 2002 and 2008, with the strong growth they exhibited in 27 countries, they created 9 400 000 new jobs, and already represented the driving force of employment.
I should like finally to mention my origins in a part of Italy - the North East - that has seen enormous development and considerable growth due precisely to an intelligent lending regime, which has been able to go hand in hand with the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Let us follow this example. (SL) Mr President, I would like to join with my fellow Members in proposing that politicians, Member States and the European Union put small and medium-sized enterprises at the heart of their economic recovery efforts.
Enterprises are receiving no payment for their invoices for 90 or 120 days, or indeed never.
The financial and economic crisis has greatly exacerbated this problem and SMEs are the most helpless in the face of these difficulties.
I met a person last weekend who wanted EUR 4 000 for an SME as cashflow and could not get it.
It is not too much to ask, and this evening, by discussing the new instruments to support SMEs, we can certainly go a long way in doing that. (RO) Mr President, providing support to SMEs and entrepreneurs offers a way out of the financial crisis.
Indeed, 23 million European SMEs are expecting positive action from the Commission.
A complete change in policy in these areas is therefore required in order to support these SMEs effectively, and the financial system must be urged to provide accessible credit for SMEs, alongside sufficient EU aid. (DE) Mr President, the European Union is always fulsome in its praise for small and medium-sized enterprises as the driving force behind the economy and as the main source of employment, particularly when employers do not immediately lay off their workers, even in recessionary times.
In practice, however, small and medium-sized enterprises find themselves unable to access capital as a result of the provisions of Basel II, and now Basel III.
It is important to ensure that the European Commission's new framework take account of these requirements, so that the Europe 2020 strategy is more than just an empty shell, and in fact contains instruments appropriate to achieving the objectives that it sets itself. (RO) Mr President, I wish to emphasise that the obstacles preventing the development of SMEs, the creation of jobs and innovation in Europe have still not been removed.
Improving the regulations and SMEs' access to the single market and funding, as well as ensuring better implementation of the Small Business Act, must be priorities at national and EU level. (PL) Mr President, the main condition necessary for a successful policy towards businesses, including small and medium-sized ones, is to ensure proper function of the internal market.
Finally, I would like to say that this sector requires special support to encourage the introduction of innovative methods - and this support should be forthcoming from the European Union.
Mr President, this evening's discussion has, as could also already have been inferred from the text of the draft resolution, highlighted the perfect agreement that exists between the wishes of Parliament and the Commission to put the real economy at the heart of economic policy in order to emerge from the crisis, and to pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the lifeblood of our economy.
At present, it is up to us to urge the Member States to speed up the rate at which they transpose the directive into their domestic law (they have 24 months from this October), even if I personally wish that the Member States would put more urgency into transposing a directive that also has a direct effect on opportunities for recovering outstanding debts so that they can be applied to innovation.
As far as aid to small and medium-sized enterprises is concerned, on 23 February, the Commission will adopt the revised Small Business Act, which contains a series of important measures, including the point of single contact for access to funding, which will be one of the proposals that we shall be putting to the Member States.
On 16 February, I shall be appointing Daniel Calleja, as Deputy Director-General, to a new office in the European Commission.
Europe must work towards creating a viable venture capital market as a priority.
Particular difficulty in obtaining financial support is being experienced by new start-ups and innovative enterprises, whose operations are considered to be risky.
I am very pleased with the motion for a resolution and the debate on the revision of EU instruments to support SME finance.
We do need to support SME finance, but the European Union can and should also take other steps to support this sector.
Both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole, SMEs account for 99% of all businesses, and micro-enterprises account for 83% of all businesses in Estonia and approximately 92% of all businesses in the EU in total.
The current economic crisis, preceded by the financial crisis, was greatly amplified by the decreased liquidity of SMEs as a result of the position of the banks in the economic crisis.
