During the current crisis in North Africa, FRONTEX has proven to be a particularly important instrument for dealing with migration flows in the region.
Respect for human rights, international cooperation and bilateral relations are essential, as too are regional organisations such as the Arab League and the African Union, which can provide added value in a stable, lasting peace process.
The example provided by the island of Lampedusa shows how foreign policy security matters can become internal policy in an instant, and that is why development cooperation alone is no longer enough.
If European solidarity does exist, now is the time to show it by working together at EU level to decide how to deal with these flows, both in the current emergency and in the long term, as well as which instruments to use in dealing with those arriving in Europe and what measures to adopt in countries of origin.
When you have two group Chairs having a private conversation while others are giving speeches, what message does that send out to their colleagues?
Mr Daul and Mr Schulz, I have been asked whether you could set an example to the House. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we have voted on today is of some help in clarifying the phenomenon of migration flows and praises the work of Frontex.
I do, however, believe that this stance should be accompanied by equal clarity on the part of the Member States, because this challenge affects not only the European Institutions but also policy in the Member States.
Thousands of migrants there have been essentially abandoned to their fate, whilst human solidarity - never mind legal solidarity - would have led to immediate care and certainly greater respect than has been shown, notwithstanding the fact that the legal problem would then have to be dealt with, as we have done in this House. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while it is true that many migration flows arise from instability, we are rather reluctant to use such a mistaken term, because instability really means war, genocide, uncontrolled violence, revolutions and the misery to which these people have been condemned, whilst the European Union remains silent.
Therefore we are certainly voting in favour of this measure, but we urge the Union to finally come up with a foreign policy worthy of the name. (NL) Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the Provera report, primarily because I think that it is greatly lacking in clarity.
My own country of Flanders is the most densely populated country in the whole of the European Union.
We also need a long-term vision to solve the problems related to migration flows and to help create jobs in the countries of origin of these people.
The idea that emigration is a product of poverty and desperation, although superficially plausible, turns out to be specious.
In our country, the United Kingdom, there are more than 4 million people who are either unemployed or on incapacity benefit and yet every month we are bringing people in from all over the world to do jobs that are not being taken by people born in the United Kingdom.
Mr President, one of the factors that is often overlooked in any debate on migration is that quite often it is very difficult for those who migrate from one country to another, and they do so under the most difficult of circumstances.
We should make sure that our policies help people to stay in their own countries. (DA) Mr President, for the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe it is absolutely crucial that we secure the same rights and opportunities not only for the women, but also for the men of rural areas as are enjoyed by those who live in towns.
Therefore, it is also a good thing that Parliament has today adopted the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas, thereby sending a very clear signal that, here too, women play an important role. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, women have always had an important role in the agricultural and rural sector.
Despite this high percentage, women are not well represented in sector organisations and face discrimination in the decision-making process.
In order to help keep employment levels steady we need support policies and strategies which are designed to build infrastructure and create services suited to the requirements of modern life, which can be implemented in rural areas. (DE) Mr President, life and work have changed radically in rural areas through the transformation of society, changes in social structure and dramatic demographic change.
I believe that our rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, has correctly highlighted this fact, which is why I believe this report is extremely important.
After all, if we want to develop rural areas, we cannot simply concentrate on building up infrastructure and creating an environment for tourism, but also need to ensure that families settle there again, something that involves both women and men in equal measure. (PL) Mr President, I endorsed the Jeggle report, not least because it recommends ensuring appropriate funding for the European Union's agricultural policy.
If rural areas and agriculture in the European Union do not receive appropriate assistance, it will be hard to improve the role of women in rural areas, it will be hard to encourage women to live in rural areas under such difficult conditions, and it will be hard to achieve the objectives of this key policy, such as food security, environmental protection and territorial balance.
We should remember this, and I would like to take the opportunity afforded by the debate on this key report by Mrs Jeggle to call once again for the wish to make savings in the European Union not to be granted at the expense of the common agricultural policy. (ES) Mr President, I voted for this report because it helps to combat the invisibility which until now has characterised the work of and role played by women in rural areas.
This is not right or normal, so the Union needs to give women a greater role in the rural sector and find suitable solutions for the combination of economic activities that they carry out.
We support the proposals of the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, on better representation for women in all political, economic and social bodies in the agricultural sector, and on support for social protection initiatives for women working as small farmers, farm workers and seasonal animal rearers.
The 1970s was a dire period for Europe as a whole and for the United Kingdom in particular: a time of stagflation, of unemployment, of national bankruptcy.
The 27 Member States have moved on, but the European Union has not.
However, the work of women at home and caring for dependent family members also makes a significant contribution to the wellbeing of society.
At the same time, it is precisely in agriculture and rural areas that valuing the work of women would improve the quality of life for families and communities. (DA) Mr President, it should always be up to each individual Member State to decide on its own energy mix.
The Commission must produce a detailed analysis of the financial efficiency of the projects, because any future support must be conditional upon the countries being able to demonstrate that they have managed their current funds properly. - (SK) Mr President, the submitted report on the state of funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants provides a good picture of the situation to date.
I fully agree with one of the key conclusions of the report, that the decommissioning of these facilities in the countries affected will also require European funding contributions after 2013.
For example, Slovakia, under pressure from the EU, decommissioned two fully reconstructed blocks of the Jaslovské Bohunice nuclear plant in 2006 and 2008.
The European Union will also have to make provision for funds to support the decommissioning of the nuclear plants in the financial perspective for the years 2013-2020. (PL) Mr President, energy policy, and above all energy security in the broadest meaning of the word, is a subject provoking heated discussion in every corner of the globe in the light of recent events in Japan.
This is a problem not only for Asia, but for every country on every continent.
We trust in the positive and concrete outcome for the entire operation, which signals a step forwards in the direction we all wanted. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of providing adequate financial resources to guarantee the decommissioning of nuclear power plants has already been tackled by European Union legislation on the safety of the nuclear sector.
It will therefore be essential - including and above all in such cases -, to ensure the provision of guarantee mechanisms for setting aside adequate financial resources required to tackle both ordinary and extraordinary requirements. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a staunch supporter of the anti-nuclear cause I backed this report not only because I think the decommissioning of these plants is of benefit to all, but also because I hope that no more will be able to be built.
Terrorist attacks could not have been foreseen and nor could the natural and disastrous events - not only earthquakes - which unfortunately are increasingly frequent in our disaster-stricken world. (HU) Mr President, I supported the report, which directly affects my country, Slovakia, as well.
In 2004, the Lithuanian, Slovak and Bulgarian Governments made commitments in their accession treaties to gradually shut down some of their nuclear reactors.
The European Union will be able to use the experience gained during the shutdown processes with nuclear power plants that are approaching the end of their economic lives.
Thank you very much. (EL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Marinescu report, precisely because in Southeastern and Eastern Europe there is a heavy legacy of extremely dangerous nuclear reactors, such as in Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
However, over all these years, billions of euros of European taxpayers' money has been spent modernising them and prolonging their life.
We are in a state of emergency and we must respond. (LT) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a report that is harsh, but in many places very true.
I would like to emphasise and draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that, together with Slovakia and Bulgaria, Lithuania has fulfilled the obligations laid down in its accession agreement and has closed its old Soviet nuclear reactors within the deadline set.
Most of the projects concerning the closure of Ignalina have been implemented or are being implemented.
I entirely agree that it is necessary to manage funds and use resources with complete transparency, thereby ensuring nuclear safety.
Let me tell you a few things about the West Midlands: we have the largest youth unemployment and our motor industry was decimated, partly due to the European Union funding jobs in Slovakia that took away essential jobs from the Ryton plant.
What we would like to do, and what I would like to see, is that GBP 48 million a day being kept in the United Kingdom and spent on essential public services, and not handed over, when the EU's accounts have not been audited for 14 years. (GA) Mr President, I was pleased to support these proposals from Bairbre de Brún and wish every success to the workers in the Czech Republic and Poland.
Respecting culture and religion is important but it should never be an excuse for honour killing, genital mutilation, trafficking, domestic violence and forced marriages.
I encourage the Commission to come forward with a strategy which includes practical proposals.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe we must join forces across political parties to denounce and combat all forms of violence against women.
I am referring to the actual inducement to violence, which is often carried out by advertising and the media, as well as the forms of blackmail and violations of women's human rights that occur in the workplace when they decide they want to become mothers or are already working mothers.
Following the implementation and adoption of the directive on trafficking in human beings - to which Parliament was very committed - and the directive on the European Protection Order, I think it would be important to have a proper directive on this issue within the new legal framework created by the Treaty of Lisbon and the Stockholm Programme. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until all forms of violence against women have been completely eradicated we shall never be able to say that we have a modern society that is finally democratic.
Once again Parliament is looking at this brutal phenomenon, which unfortunately remains shockingly topical.
The figures are quite clear: at least one woman in five suffers physical or sexual violence during her lifetime and violence is actually the prime cause of death and disability among women aged between 15 and 44 - even more than cancer or road traffic accidents.
There is only one final objective: this lethal virus must no longer find fertile ground. (ES) Mr President, violence against women is a direct consequence of discrimination; that is why we need a multi-faceted policy with special attention paid to the children of abused women.
They must have the right to free legal aid and psychological support, women's refuges and economic assistance to enable them to be independent, to specialised courts, protocols for implementation and special training for health, police and legal workers, and for statistics to be compiled and data collected to give us a true picture of the problem and allow us to apply the most appropriate policies at European level. (NL) Mr President, I abstained from the final vote on the Svensson report and I am therefore using my explanation of vote to say that I, too, find violence against women to be shocking and totally unacceptable.
That is true in the Islamic world, of course, but sadly also over here.
Let us call a spade a spade and Islam, in its real and current state, backward and misogynistic. - (SK) Mr President, I welcome the report of Mrs Svensson, because it advances the discussion on women's rights.
In drafting a strategy for the fight against all forms of violence, the Commission should harmonise the rights of women and the rights of unborn children.
The new strategy should protect women while also including mechanisms for protecting unborn children.
It brings itself in on an issue that everyone can agree on - how awful violence against women is - and then sets things up and brings in criminal law.
Written explanations of vote The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created in 2006 in order to provide additional assistance for workers affected by the consequences of significant changes in the structure of international trade and to assist in their reintegration into the labour market.
Since 1 May 2009, the remit of the EGF has been expanded to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of economic, financial and social crises.
At this time when we are facing this severe crisis, one of the principal consequences of which is an increase in unemployment, the EU should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly as regards support to be provided for those who are facing the day-to-day reality of unemployment.
It is for this reason that I voted for this report relating to the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of the Czech Republic, with the objective of supporting workers made redundant in three enterprises operating in the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community (NACE) Rev.n 2 Division 28, manufacture of machinery and equipment.
in writing. - (PL) The global economic crisis has meant that the financial situation of many Polish companies has worsened.
In order to safeguard support for workers made redundant as a result of changes to the structure of global trade caused by globalisation, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was set up.
Its main aim is to help such people to re-enter the labour market.
The current application to mobilise the Fund for the benefit of workers from Polish companies in the Podkarpackie region is the first application this year.
Thanks to this decision, the workers made redundant from three companies in the machinery sector in the Podkarpackie region are receiving nearly EUR 500 000 in financial support.
I am pleased with the work carried out on the basis of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), namely in supporting workers affected by changes in world trade.
I also support the decision to mobilise the EGF in favour of Poland, for the benefit of workers in the manufacture of machinery and equipment sector made redundant as a result of the world economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - (PT) The request relates to 594 redundancies in three enterprises operating in the Podkarpackie region of Poland, in the manufacture of machinery and equipment sector.
It is based on the intervention criterion of Article 2(b) of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) Regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies over a nine-month period in enterprises operating in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs assessed the respective eligibility conditions favourably.
The EGF was created in 2006 with the objective of providing additional support for workers who have been made redundant and are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
As a result of a revision of the EGF Regulation in 2009, the fund's scope was expanded to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the world economic and financial crisis.
The annual budget available for the EGF is EUR 500 million.
This report is on a draft decision of the European Parliament and Council on the mobilisation of EUR 453 570 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), to support the reintegration of Polish workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis.
The role of women in agriculture and the development of rural areas is extremely important, as they represent around 42% of agricultural workers, are a cornerstone of keeping farms going, and ensure that desertification in rural areas is effectively combated.
It should be remembered that Poland requested assistance for 594 workers made redundant in three companies in the manufacture of machinery and equipment division in the NUTS II region of Podkarpackie.
The redundancies are linked to the impact of the economic and financial crisis, which has resulted in a drop in exports for the companies Huta Stalowa Wola SA, HSW - ZZN and DEZAMET SA of 47%, 34% and 58% respectively, meaning that the companies meet the eligibility criteria laid down in the EGF Regulation.
The European Commission is therefore proposing the mobilisation of the sum of EUR 453 570.
The result, they say, has been a considerable reduction in the production of machinery and equipment, thus demonstrating the effects of the crisis on the companies in question in the country.
The 594 redundancies have severe repercussions for living conditions, jobs and the local economy, which is why mobilisation of the EGF is of the highest importance for supporting the affected workers.
That is why we voted in favour, although we believe that the most important thing would be to prevent these companies going bust and the jobs being lost.
in writing. - (LT) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
It was based on the intervention criterion of Article 2 (b) of the EGF Regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies over a nine-month period in enterprises operating in the same NACE Revision 2 Division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level in a Member State and was submitted within the deadline of 10 weeks (Article 5 of the Regulation).
I also believe that other EU Member States should take more advantage of the opportunities offered by the EU funds.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Poland because I believe this instrument represents a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
As has been said a number of times, since 2006 the EGF has been providing practical support to European workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote was on a request for assistance concerning 594 redundancies (of which 200 are targeted for assistance) in three enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 28, in the NUTS II region of Podkarpackie.
The total amount of funding provided by the EFG amounts to EUR 453 750.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - (PL) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in global trade.
The Podkarpackie region is one of the poorest in Poland, and so I am very pleased that it will receive EU assistance.
I would like to thank everyone who voted in favour of providing financial support.
in writing. - I voted for this report giving support through the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to 594 workers made redundant in Poland.
The rationale behind the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is intolerable.
The EU is an area of solidarity and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of low labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with damaging effects on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is intended to help workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is essential for facilitating access to new employment.
Although I voted in favour of this proposal to provide assistance to the workers of Podkarpackie machinery from Poland, I believe that this is an analgesic and palliative measure for the consequences of the capitalist model, and that it does not represent any progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis.
I agree with the mobilisation of resources from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for people made redundant due to structural changes in trade patterns or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - Taking into account that Poland has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 594 redundancies in the period from 1 June 2009 to 1 March 2010 (of which 200 have been targeted for assistance) in three enterprises engaged in the manufacture of machinery and equipment in the region of Podkarpackie in Poland, I totally approve and support such an active position by the Polish Government and the opinions of my S&amp;D Group colleagues.
in writing. - (DE) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was established to protect workers who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
Poland has applied for support for 594 redundancies in the Podkarpackie region.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
On 15 February 2011, the Commission adopted a new draft decision on mobilising the EGF in favour of Poland, with the aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the world economic and financial crisis.
In this case it was the redundancy of 594 workers - 200 of whom are potential beneficiaries of aid - in three companies manufacturing machinery and equipment in the Podkarpackie region of Poland, during the nine-month reference period between 1 June 2009 and 1 March 2010.
The Commission's assessment concluded that there is a link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial and economic crisis, and that these redundancies were unforeseen in nature.
The application meets all of the eligibility criteria set out in the EGF Regulation, which is why I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund.
Poland's application for intervention by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) relates to 594 redundancies - 200 of whom are potential beneficiaries of aid - in three companies in Division 28 of NACE Rev. 2, manufacture of machinery and equipment, in the NUTS II region of Podkarpackie.
According to the Commission's assessment, this application meets all of the legally defined eligibility criteria.
Under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and Council of 18 June 2009, which amended Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the European Parliament and Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the EGF's scope was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this, in which, as a direct result of the world economic and financial crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that the mobilisation of the EGF would contribute to the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - We have requested that the institutions involved, as usually on those cases, make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF.
However, it also recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis, points out the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market and, however, calls for an evaluation on the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the EGF-funded measures.
On 15 February 2011, the Commission adopted a draft decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Poland, with the aim of supporting the reintegration to the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis.
The request concerns 594 redundancies (of which 200 are targeted for assistance) in three enterprises operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 28 (manufacture of wearing apparel) in the NUTS II region of Podkarpackie, during the nine-month reference period from 1 June 2009 to 1 March 2010.
My vote in favour of today's resolution reiterates the favourable opinion already given in the Committee for Employment and Social Affairs.
in writing. - Whilst voting for this report, I consider it ironic that this fund exists when not all EU countries utilise it.
The share of this fund remaining at year end is repatriated to Member States as part of their 'rebate'.
Yet failure by some countries, like the UK, to use this fund, which is its established right, in cases like the Twining Tea plant closure in Andover, raises certain questions.
For the UK to maintain the right not to participate in funds managed at EU level because later benefits may flow is, in this case, uncertain and perhaps even plain wrong.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in Poland.
I voted in favour of this important resolution on migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy.
Political, social and economic instability, lack of security, political repression and authoritarian regimes are the major driving forces behind migration, depriving affected communities of viable local prospects and income and, hence, of the right to choose whether to migrate or not, putting their lives at constant risk and leaving them with migration as their only option.
I agree with the rapporteur's position that we must urge the Commission to ensure that any readmission agreement signed by the EU and its Member States fully respects human rights and the principle of 'non-refoulement' and does not put at risk any persons in need of international protection.
The EU will thus demonstrate once again that values and respect for human rights are the most important thing and inalienable, and persons seeking asylum will feel safe and respected.
Political, social and economic instability, a lack of security and the political repression carried out by authoritarian regimes are the main factors behind migration and the migratory waves that spill over unceasingly into some countries in the Mediterranean basin, making them unable to manage the numerous difficulties caused by humanitarian emergencies.
In recent weeks it has been impossible to ignore the thousands of migrants that have arrived in Lampedusa following the unrest in the countries of North Africa.
Ninety per cent of them are young people of between 15 and 35 years of age, who are risking their lives in the hope of finding better opportunities.
Today, the EU has the duty to develop an efficient global policy on migration that provides for the creation of a European asylum system, the implementation of an obligatory resettlement programme that is capable of sharing out responsibilities equitably, and agreements with the Member States to encourage development.
The recent and ongoing events unfolding on the opposite shores of the Mediterranean bear witness to how the instability in this region and the consequent migration flows represent a challenge that the European Union must face up to.
The migration phenomenon is worrying for the developments and tensions it may cause, both in terms of relations between migrants' countries of origin and destination, but also between their countries of origin and transit countries.
We must keep illegal immigration under control and, in this sense, I think that extending migration agreements is an effective remedy to obtain short-term results and reduce the instability of migration flows.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
The management of migratory flows presents a huge challenge for the European Union, which must take action to establish a common immigration policy, capable of contributing to a reduction in illegal immigration.
I agree that it is necessary to take preventative measures in all EU bilateral trade agreements, including human rights clauses, and the application of appropriate sanctions should be considered for countries that fail to comply with such clauses.
These migration phenomena could be the cause of tensions between origin countries and destination countries, as well as between origin countries and transit countries.
The EU's strategy should be to combine development cooperation measures with a more comprehensive political vision encompassing security, regional cooperation and bilateral agreements.
This report identifies the following possible areas of action in this regard: encouraging transit countries and origin countries to achieve greater economic and institutional stability; stepping up the EU's own mediation and conflict-prevention efforts in cooperation with regional organisations; negotiating bilateral immigration agreements with transit countries; and developing an economic agenda which incorporates specific measures to raise employment levels in the EU's partner countries.
For all the above reasons, I voted for this report.
I voted in favour of this text on migratory flows.
I voted for this report because, by setting medium- and long-term goals, it takes a realistic approach to a problem originating in the imbalance between countries that are developed and those that are not, as well as in human rights violations in many parts of the world.
in writing. - (BG) I voted for this resolution because the migration flows being caused by instability in one country pose a challenge to the entire European Union.
The resolution marks a first step towards creating a common European migration management policy.
This policy must also act as a deterrent.
In order to achieve this, it must combine every possible European Union cooperation instrument in the area of social and economic development, thereby having a direct influence on the causes of instability in the countries where the migration flows originate.
Migration is a particularly relevant issue which has been highlighted recently, because due to events in North Africa, the European Union, as a neighbouring region, has been forced to receive huge flows of migrants.
These instruments would help address sources of instability in countries of origin, which force people to emigrate en masse to more stable neighbouring countries.
The report also calls on the Commission to draw up proposals on legal migration, which would be easier to manage and could promote economic and social progress in receiving, transit and origin countries.
Finally, it emphasises the need to assess the demographic situation in the EU itself, in order to calculate exactly how many people Europe can receive.
The European Union must tackle migration flows caused by wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tension, human rights violations and natural disasters in third countries.
The Union has to meet this challenge effectively by implementing preventive measures and employing the most appropriate foreign policy instruments with a view to addressing the causes of instability directly so that emigration becomes an opportunity rather than a desperate necessity.
A European policy on regulating migration should combine development cooperation measures with a more comprehensive political vision encompassing bilateral security and regional cooperation agreements with countries of origin and transit countries, the protection of human rights and democratisation.
European foreign policy should complement and generate synergies with immigration policy, focusing on the causes of instability and structural problems in the countries of origin.
It must also seek to establish an ongoing dialogue with transit countries, with a view to regulating migration flows and applying uniformly international human rights standards relating to immigration.
In recent weeks in particular, Italy has been the destination for thousands of migrants fleeing the countries of North Africa.
Faced with such a difficult situation the EU cannot abandon my country, but must make every effort to ensure that the treaties are respected, particularly Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
At the same time, we need to optimise financial resources and existing structures.
in writing. - (CS) I agree there is a need to come up with an integrated long-term EU strategy for unstable states that would address the basic causes of migration flows.
However, I do not share the belief that the Council should submit an action plan on sharing the burden, based on the principle of solidarity set out in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
In this context, I consider the calls to create a common EU asylum system and a common EU resettlement programme to be alarming.
The creation of a comprehensive Commission approach to legal migration is a good idea, but it should not be linked to the needs of the European labour market or the capacity of each Member State to receive and integrate migrants.
The management of migration flows should remain primarily within the remit of Member States.
I welcome EU efforts to respond to the challenges created by instability and migration flows, which affect not only origin countries but also transit countries, in various areas relating to violence, human rights violations, and so on.
I therefore support an active policy in this area, which seeks to resolve the initial destabilising factors in origin countries, such as lack of economic and democratic structures.
This is the only way to eliminate the negative consequences of migration, which should be positive and productive, and not a means of escape.
This policy should translate into cooperation between origin countries and transit countries, based on dialogue aimed at achieving robust, effective and lasting results.
On the one hand, it persists in the approach of dividing people into legal and illegal immigrants and in the utilitarian perception of 'useful' and non-useful immigrants, thus linking their rights to the various 'quotas' applied by the Union and the Member States.
Out of the 51 underdeveloped countries, where 78% of the population live on less than USD 1.25 a day, only three have moved out of this category in recent years.
The situation is worrying as these countries are the most vulnerable to ordeals such as the financial and food crises and climate change, while also facing extreme poverty, a lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment.
This reality highlights that, unfortunately, the international community has not fulfilled the commitments set out in the Brussels Action Programme.
I hope that during the Conference, where I will be representing the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, we will focus on achieving consistency in terms of development policies and methods for implementing innovative funding mechanisms, with the aim of providing more effective help to these countries which need to be encouraged to implement suitable policies.
The report in question looks at the importance of continuing with cooperation treaties relating to the European neighbourhood policy (ENP).
The phenomenon of emigration fuelled by situations of crisis and instability has negative implications for the origin country, the destination country and the displaced populations themselves.
In this explanation of vote, I reiterate the need to take measures ensuring and promoting stability and security in origin countries.
I believe that European foreign policy, and very specifically the ENP, should provide for aid to these regions of the world, promoting security, stability and the protection of human rights as part of an expanded development process, as I stated in my report on the revision of the ENP-South, which will also be voted on this week.
The MEPs are calling on the European Council to draw up an action plan for the resettlement of the refugees, applying the clause of solidarity between Member States.
I voted in favour of the report on migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy.
Political, social and economic instability, lack of security, political repression and climate change push communities into migration, so the EU needs to develop a common immigration policy, to include, specifically, promotion of economic and social progress in receiving, transit and origin countries, and enhancing social cohesion by improving the integration of migrants.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats agree that migration flows as a result of instability constitute a challenge for the EU and that increased efforts are required to deal with the causes of the instability and structural problems in the countries of origin.
in writing. - (PT) The relationship between centres of instability - social, economic or political - and migration flows toward the European Union is clear.
A policy of prevention that uses the most appropriate foreign policy instruments, with a view to tackling and confronting the causes of instability, could help to transform the current 'desperate necessity' for emigration into an 'opportunity' for emigration.
Without these common development efforts in the countries involved, working alongside their people and social structures, it will not be possible to contribute effectively to instability reduction.
This report focuses on the migration flows resulting from the political instability being experienced in certain regions of the world, in particular North Africa and the southern Mediterranean.
This situation, which is affecting the countries of southern Europe, particularly Italy - we are all following the situation on the island of Lampedusa, where more than 20 000 people have landed - and the island of Malta, has brought more than 400 000 refugees to Europe.
In order to minimise this situation, in addition to mobilising the European Refugee Fund, it is essential that the EU implement a more sustained plan aimed at humanitarian assistance and guaranteeing the basic needs of these people as soon as possible.
A regional programme aimed at refugees from Egypt, Tunisia and Libya also needs to be drawn up, relating to both asylum and the protection of refugees, in order to prevent human trafficking and to prepare their return to their countries of origin.
I welcome the adoption of this report, as it indicates that the EU is going to address the structural causes of problems resulting from migration flows through its foreign cooperation policy, without preconceptions of any kind.
However, natural disasters and poverty resulting from the lack of adequate economic and democratic structures are also among the most frequent causes of migration flows.
The effects of the crisis of world capitalism and the consequences of its irregular and asymmetrical development are exacerbating the economic and social situation in many countries.
The uprisings in the Arab world are also an expression of this phenomenon, which also tends to increase migration flows.
The European Union's discourse on this subject is frequently hypocritical, and it operates a policy of double standards.
On the one hand, it claims to defend human rights in third countries, whilst maintaining a self-serving view of them when it comes to attacking any of these countries.
There needs to be a policy of prevention, and development cooperation measures, with a more comprehensive political vision, that includes, above all, solidarity and the safeguarding of human rights, which is currently not the case.
In general, the European Commission and the European Parliament itself prioritise their economic and geostrategic interests, and forget solidarity and the Millennium Development Goals, adopting shameful directives such as the Return Directive.
This is why we voted against this report, despite the fact that it includes one or two positive points.
The main motivation of these migrants is purely economic.
Our development aid policies should encourage people to remain in their own country, and should even be conditional on that and on their citizens returning.
I voted for this parliamentary report on 'Migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy' and I want to focus on a number of aspects contained in this report.
Nearly 24 000 Tunisians have arrived on the island of Lampedusa and on Italy's shores since the fall of President Ben Ali, and thousands of Libyans have also fled their war-torn country since February.
Our report also asks for the post-2013 budget to include a provision on emergency funds for a rapid response to immigration and asylum in Europe.
All these aspects are necessary in a genuine European asylum policy, which we have long been calling for and which must be based on the principles of coherence, responsibility, solidarity and respect for human rights.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report because it highlights the real causes of migration flows, namely political, social and economic instability, lack of security, political repression, violation of human rights, as well as climate change.
This report also emphasises the importance of providing countries of origin with sustainable strategies within the framework of the European neighbourhood policy (ENP) and the EU development cooperation policy.
in writing. - The Provera report deals with a number of important issues relating to migration and highlights the importance of human rights.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this document, because migration flows arising from instability are a challenge for the European Union.
In order to avoid negative consequences, Europe must be able to meet this challenge by setting out and implementing a policy of prevention that acts on the causes of economic and political instability in these countries, proposing shared solutions that can prevent or at least reduce the magnitude of the phenomenon.
For these reasons, because I am convinced of the important political signal that Europe is morally obliged to send on this issue and not leave the States to their own devices, I used my vote to support the aforementioned resolution.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force, the EU has had very wide powers in terms of controlling migration flows.
The 'Arab spring' is a potent symbol of freedom, but it also masks a more tragic reality which is causing large numbers of civilians to take to the road (or to the sea in this instance) in search of asylum.
The Union's new foreign policy architecture introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, and more specifically the creation of the European External Action Service (EEAS), should also allow the action of the Member States to be coordinated more effectively.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which welcomes the Commission's recent proposals on legal migration for non-asylum seekers, and urges it to develop further instruments to establish a common immigration policy, to manage economic migration with a view to promoting economic and social progress in receiving, transit and origin countries, and to enhance social cohesion by improving the integration of migrants.
It calls on the Commission to foster protection measures for vulnerable groups and people (mainly women and children) who often become victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, and urges it to build up information centres on possibilities for migration to the EU in third countries.
Yet Europe will need 230 million immigrants between now and 2030: the European Commission has said so itself.
This report is arrogant and brutal.
Migration flows resulting from instability are a challenge for the European Union.
In order to meet this challenge effectively, the European Union must implement a policy of prevention, employing the most appropriate foreign policy instruments with a view to addressing the causes of instability directly, so that emigration becomes an opportunity, not a desperate necessity.
I voted against the Provera report on migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy, because I reject the European Union's migration policy; the policy of 'Fortress Europe', with borders that are iron-clad for men and women but which, by contrast, evaporate when it comes to capital.
in writing. - Migration flows arising as a result of instability constitute a challenge for the EU.
The measures proposed in the report are not sufficient and are too declarative.
in writing. - (DE) In view of the continuing stream of migrants into Europe it would seem all the more important to take a stance against the legalisation of economic migrants.
It is vital that developing countries should receive our support so that these people are encouraged to remain in their own countries.
It makes no sense to allow people from developing countries to enter the labour market, particularly because the unemployment rate in the euro area currently stands at 9.9%.
Every effort must therefore be made to ensure that a common EU migration policy is established at EU level so that migration flows are managed and controlled optimally.
Only joint efforts will protect economic growth, labour market sustainability and scope for development from negative consequences in those countries facing the greatest flows of immigrants.
This will be an effective instrument for stopping illegal immigration, organised crime and trafficking in human beings.
It is very important to establish a system for legal migration, taking account of the needs of Europe's labour market and the capacity of each Member State to receive and integrate immigrants.
Legal immigrants in European Union Member States must enjoy the same rights and obligations as other workers.
Furthermore, in every country it is very important to reduce the brain drain and the departure of qualified specialists.
Through the adoption of this text, the Council has been invited - an invitation that cannot and must not be ignored - to fully implement the solidarity clause with a practical action plan and sharing of the burden among Member States.
In particular, the text makes the case for minimum standards for giving temporary protection to immigrants and measures designed to share responsibilities and efforts between Member States which, like Italy, take in immigrants responsibly and shoulder the consequences alone.
Full use can and must be made of tools such as development and cooperation aid programmes and readmission agreements.
Clearly, these issues will be crucial in the immediate future, both for Greece and for the rest of the EU, which is why I voted in favour of this particular report.
Migration flows resulting from instability are currently a major challenge for the EU.
This report establishes a set of recommendations aimed at enabling the EU to respond effectively to this challenge.
Among other measures, I would stress the adoption of a policy of prevention, aimed at tackling the causes of instability directly, so that emigration becomes an opportunity rather than a desperate need, and of development cooperation with a more comprehensive political vision that includes security, regional cooperation, and bilateral agreements with origin countries and transit countries.
These things represent a challenge for the European Union, due to the efforts they require both in terms of cooperation for development and in terms of prevention of social tensions, which are often not only created between countries of origin and destination but also between countries of origin and the migrants' transit countries.
in writing. - Migration flows arising from instability are a challenge for the European Union.
Wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tension, systematic violations of human rights - such as the refusal to allow people to practise their religious faith - natural disasters and the lack of proper economic and democratic structures are the main causes of this type of migration flow.
In order to meet this challenge effectively, the European Union must implement a policy of prevention, employing the most appropriate foreign policy instruments with a view to addressing the causes of instability directly, so that emigration becomes an opportunity, not a desperate necessity.
A European policy on regulating migration should combine development cooperation measures with a more comprehensive political vision encompassing security, regional cooperation, bilateral agreements with countries of origin and transit countries, the safeguarding of human rights and democratisation.
The management of migration flows arising from political instability represents a fundamental challenge for the European Union.
European foreign policy should focus on the roots of instability and on structural problems in the countries of origin.
I think this text represents another instrument for the EU to use as it outlines a coherent and effective policy on the phenomenon of migration flows, directing its choices on the most appropriate path towards recreating conditions of political, economic and social stability.
I voted in favour of Mr Provera's report, because I consider that his report takes a realistic attitude to the problem and his proposed burden-sharing of immigration is sorely needed.
We must try, especially in light of developments in North Africa and the Arab world, to find a European strategy to address the problem of immigration, so as not to leave the Member States to their fate and, at the same time, to ensure that the unfortunate people forced to migrate and the citizens of Europe bearing the burden are not taken advantage of.
in writing. - (NL) This resolution has the merit of cranking up the debate about the Union's migration policy, although the text could have been more specific and more strongly worded.
Frontex cannot be the only instrument involved in tackling the refugee crisis.
Europe also urgently needs to develop an action plan for burden-sharing in order to assist the resettlement of refugees from the region and to offer support to the homeless.
I hope that this resolution is a first step towards a more global approach to the issue of refugees so that people are dealt with in a more humane way.
I voted for Mr Provera's report on 'Migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy'.
We need to focus on the deep-rooted causes of instability in certain regions of the world and to manage migration flows effectively.
Migration management policy should indeed be effectively combined with European development cooperation policy, and should take into account aspects concerning security, regional cooperation in the Southern countries and cooperation agreements with countries of origin and of transit.
The recession and political instability prevailing in several countries have helped to boost migration flows and this poses a challenge for the EU.
The measures proposed in this particular report will help to address this problem, which terrifies the countries on the EU borders directly and the whole of the EU indirectly.
One of these measures is the development of a permanent monitoring system for Frontex activities and operations linked to the management of migration flows, which must be permanent and stable.
That is why I voted in favour of Mr Provera's report.
To my mind, European solidarity must fully come into play between Member States and third countries.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of this report.
As a preventive measure, Mr Provera proposes getting to the root cause of migration and addressing the lack of democratic and economic stability in the recipient countries in European foreign policy.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas, because women in today's society assume multifunctional roles in the context of their individual family and occupational ties, and this very multiplicity of roles enables them to contribute significantly to progress and innovation at all levels of society and to the improvement of quality of life, especially in rural areas.
Therefore, in order to ensure a stable situation for populations working in agriculture, rural development policy should focus more strongly on creating innovative and sustainable living and working conditions in rural areas.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that we should encourage women's entrepreneurial spirit and initiatives, in particular through the promotion of female ownership, networks of female entrepreneurs, and provision in the financial sector for facilitating access for rural businesswomen to investment and credit - thus empowering them more effectively in the marketplace and enabling them to develop businesses from which they can make a stable living.
It is also important for support to be given to political efforts to further the role of women in agriculture by making it easier for them to be active as agricultural entrepreneurs.
There must be improved access to land and credit for women to encourage the establishment of women in rural areas and as actors in the agricultural sector.
I am delighted to give my backing to the report by Mrs Jeggle since it focuses attention on the 42% of women who live in rural areas and do an essential job in developing, stabilising and modernising them by coming up with new forms of entrepreneurship.
In addition, we must also improve women's education and provide easier access to credit in order to support female entrepreneurship.
The social protection policies to be embarked upon must also bear in mind the living conditions of migrant women employed as seasonal workers in agricultural businesses, particularly with regard to the need to guarantee these women suitable accommodation, medical insurance and adequate sanitary facilities.
Respect for the principle of gender equality is a basic requirement under the Europe 2020 Strategy and should be promoted in order to increase the number of women involved in economic and social activities and the equality of rights for women and men in the agricultural sector in particular.
I feel it is important to emphasise the role played by women in farms and rural areas.
This is why support policies must reflect more than they have until now women's important role, needs and situation in the countryside.
I voted for this report which helps combat social exclusion in rural areas.
The key aim of rural development policies is to ensure equal rights for men and women and equivalent living conditions in all regions, thereby avoiding unilateral development of highly populated urban areas so as to prevent a mass exodus from the villages.
There must be due recognition given in EU agricultural policies in future to the role of women.
I support what the report says on the excellent work of women's networks in energising rural communities and promoting equality and social inclusion in the countryside.
They must get more political support at local, national and European level.
in writing. - (PT) Women are playing an increasingly important role in the agricultural sector and rural areas.
Over the last few years, the support provided to women for their own projects has enabled them to make significant progress, which has resulted in increased development for rural society as a whole.
Women have been contributing to advancing traditional economic models and lifestyles in rural areas, whilst also contributing to the stabilisation and modernisation of the business models involved, and, as a result, to the sustainable development of rural areas.
Ensuring that men and women can succeed and have good life prospects in rural areas should be the main objective of European rural policy.
However, it is a very serious and urgent matter for some new Member States, such as Romania, where there is a very high proportion of rural areas with an extremely low employment rate.
We need to adopt a suitable approach, one which will receive financial support in the future CAP, so that we can achieve results in creating living conditions which are attractive to women and men in these areas.
I also agree with the notion that one of the priorities of the reform of the CAP should be for women in rural areas to have access to services and aid, according to the needs of each Member State.
Indeed, one of the main objectives of European policy on rural areas is to guarantee equivalent living conditions in all regions so that, even in the countryside, men and women have the chance to grasp opportunities to build something.
in writing. - (BG) The aim of the common agricultural policy is to promote the high-quality, sustainable development of rural areas.
I voted in favour of the text because I think that women play an extremely important role in modern society.
During recent years, it has become clear that a large proportion of the projects carried out in agricultural areas would have been inconceivable without the active involvement of women.
I also think that living conditions need to be improved in rural areas.
This can be done by increasing access to the infrastructure, facilities and services for everyday life.
in writing. - (IT) Considering that the risk of social exclusion in rural areas is greater for women than for men, and considering the significance of this, I strongly support this resolution, which draws attention to the role of women in agriculture and demands not only that women's agricultural and non-agricultural professional competencies be given more prominence in business and regional development strategies, but also encourages incentives for the promotion of women's involvement in the market by eliminating all types of discrimination, improving available training and access to post-graduate and specialist courses.
I entirely agree that one of the important measures that may change this emerging tendency towards urbanisation is the creation of suitable living and working conditions in rural areas.
Experience shows that quality of life and economic power in rural areas are closely linked to women and the role they play in farming.
Measures listed in the report include the continuation and development of training and counselling provision for women that has a specific rural focus, continuity of EU support for agriculture and business in rural areas, the development of the most essential infrastructure and IT infrastructure, and the opportunity to take advantage of early retirement and many other measures.
I voted in favour of this document because I agree on the need to recognise the unique role played by women in agriculture.
Furthermore, I believe we have an obligation to identify the specific needs of women in rural areas and to ensure that future strategies, beginning with the next reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), adequately meet those requirements.
The European Union must not overlook the professional, familial and social aspirations of women who live in rural areas.
Finally, I share the proposals made by the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, especially as regards the need for greater female representation in political, economic and social organisations in the agricultural world.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the importance accorded by the Commission to the role of women in the development of rural areas.
The multifunctional role of women in recent years, in both economic and social terms, is a reality to which we should not be indifferent.
in writing. - Moves by the European Parliament today to support and strengthen the contribution of women to Europe's vital agriculture sector are welcome.
Not many people realise that 42 % of those working regularly in the agricultural sector are women.
This report also contributes to the promotion of sustainable economic growth and rural development.
The report also illustrates the importance of there being a well-functioning infrastructure and the basic provision of certain services, for example broadband and childcare, not just in towns, but in rural areas, too.
However, we would like to emphasise that we do not believe that agriculture should retain the same proportion of the budget in the next multiannual financial framework, but rather that agriculture's total share should be significantly reduced.
in writing. - (PT) If we advocate serious commitment to the agricultural sector - as I do - and the possibility of the working in the rural world being a real lifestyle choice for families, it is vital to ensure that anyone making this choice has access to similar conditions as those living in the cities, in terms of health, education and family support infrastructure.
The CAP should be used to promote these services, in order to provide women with new prospects and opportunities for paid work, and also to facilitate the reconciliation of family life with working life to a significant extent.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is found in breast milk, where it contributes to normal visual development in children aged up to 12 months.
There is therefore a need to accord particular importance to the situation of women in agriculture and rural areas, whose lives are suffering from the profound crisis into which current policies, such as the common agricultural policy (CAP) and others, have plunged the rural world.
Women, who represent around 42% of the 26.7 million people working in agriculture, are particularly affected by hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized farms going out of business, and by the process of destruction of family farming, which have resulted from successive CAP reforms.
As in other areas of activity, they are also victims of unemployment, insecure jobs, low wages and poverty, which have been aggravated by the antisocial policies imposed under the pretext of the crisis.
Value needs to be ascribed to the role of women, their rights, equality, and public services in rural areas relating to health, education, cultural and leisure provision, social infrastructure... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (DE) This report deserves whole-hearted support because it draws attention to the special role of women in agricultural business and in rural areas, while at the same time offering solutions for current challenges.
These solutions will help make the working life and day-to-day situation for women in rural areas more attractive.
One strand of this solution is supporting affordable, easy access to support services and facilities such as kindergartens, out-patient clinics, and so on, as well as the requisite infrastructure.
This will not only benefit women in rural areas, but also enrich these areas, sustainably developing them as an integrated place in which to work and live.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because it is very important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas, taking particular account of its multifunctional nature.
In recent years, women have used their education and professional skills to promote the development of the traditional rural economy.
Innovative rural businesses of all kinds, which focus, for example, on services and farm tourism, have significantly revived the rural economic structure.
There must also be support for the establishment and development of innovative rural businesses in the future.
Finally, I would like to point out that the promotion of gender equality is one of the main objectives of the EU and the Member States.
in writing. - (DE) This report represents a move by the European Parliament to improve living and working conditions for women in rural areas and to create opportunities for their development.
This also requires needs-based childcare facilities and an infrastructure tailored to families in the agricultural sector, as well as access to the Internet and other communication technology.
I support the call in the report, emphasising the importance of not cutting the agricultural share of the EU budget as part of the forthcoming talks on the future EU financial framework.
in writing. - (IT) I strongly supported the report produced by my colleague Mrs Jeggle because I found it to contain important principles to be noted and upheld in the future.
Out of a total of around 27 million people regularly employed in agriculture in the EU, around 42% are women whilst, according to official statistics, one agricultural business in five (around 29%) is directly managed by a woman.
This is a barrier that we must overcome with a policy of services that, via the new common agricultural policy (CAP), will facilitate the processes of development and activity in the rural fabric of many areas.
I am thinking in particular of training, consulting and business creation initiatives, which in the framework of the second pillar of the CAP, could still be developed and which would represent the turning point for a significant improvement in living conditions for women, as well as men, in rural areas.
I can state with full conviction that women in rural areas influence not only the development and modernisation of farms, but frequently also the stimulation of the entire rural community, thanks to their hard work and determination.
Their activities in rural homemakers' clubs, their efforts to preserve traditions and family customs, and also their successful implementation of new solutions in the area of farm management mean that they are a group which should be supported and promoted and whose value should be stressed.
I would like to thank all women in rural areas, both in Poland and throughout the European Union, for their hard work and their contribution to regional development, and I would like to make it known that I voted in favour of the Jeggle report.
in writing. - I welcome this report's recognition of the important role women play in agricultural production and the need to adapt certain policies and conditions to assist them.
However, I do not believe this should be used as a justification to throw even more money at the CAP.
in writing. - (IT) I have voted in favour because I strongly believe that we need to recognise the central role played by women in places where their work is fundamental to the performance or recovery of that particular local economy, which in itself contributes to the general growth of our countries.
Support for women and their plans would lead to progress in the development of rural communities as a whole.
In this period of financial and economic crisis, it is fundamental that we create equivalent working conditions in the countryside and in cities, so as to repopulate territories which could provide a kick-start for economic recovery in a given European region.
We must emphasise the significant impact of the presence and involvement of women on quality of life and the rural economy.
Women will represent great potential for the EU when it undertakes to develop and build on Europe's rural economy.
EU funding can therefore help to improve the quality of life and work in rural areas by boosting incomes and through schooling and vocational and academic education and further training.
The potential of the services provided by farm businesses in addition to their own food output depends on the creativity of the people involved, the women among them having already contributed a great deal.
in writing. - (PT) Given women's increasing importance in agriculture and rural areas, the new common agricultural policy (CAP) needs to take this into consideration in order to promote equality between genders.
That is the only way that we will succeed in promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development.
As in urban areas, we need to create good living conditions in rural areas, so that women and their families have incentives to remain there.
I voted for the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas because I believe that their role is crucial in this sector that employs 14.6 million people, or 41% of women.
I also believe that social protection for women workers in the agricultural sector is indispensable to the development of rural areas, so I voted for this report, which is a step in that direction.
in writing. - As was said, the report aims to highlight the need to implement the principle of gender equality in the common agricultural policy as a way of promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development.
Therefore the EU needs to refocus its EU support strategies in order to develop the rural areas in a women-friendly way.
Promotion of the entrepreneurial attitude and skills of women in agriculture, improving access and specific training for women, equipment of rural areas with the most up-to-date IT infrastructure, greater recognition and more support for women's networks, fostering the quality and accessibility of infrastructure facilities and service, adequate social security benefits for women working in agriculture, shared ownership of farms, specific attention for female immigrants are among the most important points which the different political groups agreed on.
The lack of efficient healthcare and pre-school education in rural areas is precisely what concerns women from Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania.
in writing. - (DE) The role of women is still a subordinate one in the agricultural sector.
According to this report, we need to cater more closely to the needs of women, particularly in non-urban areas.
Women farmers are contributing more and more to the diversification and adaptation of businesses, leading to a significant rise in multifunctionalism in the agricultural sector.
I have voted in favour of this report, as we must stop the decline in farming by every means available to us.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the Jeggle report, which I welcome, being an MEP elected in Romania, a country which has a large number of people involved in agricultural activities.
We need a heavily financed European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to be able to narrow the disparities between rural and urban areas.
in writing. - (DE) In many ways, women are the backbone of our agricultural sector.
The role of women is becoming increasingly important the more we try to establish the right conditions for a sustainable, ecologically responsible agricultural industry based on small holdings.
That is why it is important for society to give greater recognition and respect to the work of women in the agricultural sector.
In addition, more must be done in future to cater to the specific needs of women in the agricultural sector in order to attract the younger generations to the industry.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
For this and other reasons, I believe that one of the fundamental objectives of the common agricultural policy should be to make rural areas more attractive, paying particular attention to the needs and role of women.
I am sure that all these measures will ensure that women's potential for the development of agriculture, and of local communities and entire regions, is put to ever better use.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution, aimed at increasing the role of women in the agricultural sector and improving their situation in rural areas, providing more social guarantees and promoting employment and entrepreneurship.
In order to create a favourable environment to promote entrepreneurship, all rural areas must have the most up-to-date IT infrastructure.
Furthermore, we must make every effort to ensure that rural communities are preserved and opportunities are created to reconcile family and working life.
Consequently, there is a need to ensure that people living in rural areas receive a high standard of health care, education, child care and other services intended to meet daily needs and which would create more favourable living conditions and would reduce social exclusion.
Member States using money from the Structural Funds must establish and implement initiatives which would promote the participation of women in the labour market, reduce social inequality and address issues related to transport infrastructure.
in writing. - (IT) The new common agricultural policy (CAP) also takes into account social issues such as the role of women in rural areas.
Since I agreed with these principles, I voted in favour of the report, which underlines the important role played by women in agricultural businesses and in rural environments, and draws attention to the significance of this role for territorial development policies.
The report highlights areas where work is needed to see women better integrated and to make best use of their professional potential, leading to better prospects in life by way of greater ecological and energy efficiency in rural areas.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report as I agree with the majority of the proposals it puts forward, specifically the promotion of multifunctionality in rural areas, which are areas for living and doing business where communities should stay and be made dynamic.
It is important to recognise that rural areas are particularly affected by population ageing, low population density and, in some areas, depopulation, for which reason the common agricultural policy (CAP) should be oriented toward responding to these challenges.
It is a fact that, historically, women's work in agriculture has been systematically undervalued, and frequently unpaid or paid at a lower rate than equivalent work carried out by men.
It is therefore important that this be taken into consideration as part of this topic, and that, above all, equal working conditions be established for equal work.
in writing. - (IT) Women are the backbone of the agricultural sector in rural areas.
Thus, European support policies must do more than ever before to meet their needs and conditions, so as to prevent an exodus of women of all generations from the countryside or, in any case, to encourage them to return to rural life.
In light of this, aid from the EU can contribute to improving quality of life in rural areas, for women who manage a business or supply services as well as for consumers of goods and services.
Since women play a vital role in terms of sustainable development in rural areas, I am voting in favour so as to guarantee concrete support for women in this sector.
in writing. - Women are very important for the agricultural sector and the rural world and their presence there is increasingly obvious.
It is therefore important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas, taking particular account of its multifunctional nature.
If we want to keep women of all generations living in the countryside or encourage them to move there, then support policies must reflect their needs and circumstances more strongly than has been the case in the past.
The European Commission should increase the budgetary allocations for the ESF in order to provide adequate resources for measures to improve education and training for improving labour market access and combating unemployment and measures and activities under the Social Inclusion Strategy and the EU 2020 flagship initiative on combating poverty and social exclusion in favour of disadvantaged and vulnerable persons, especially women, including those confronted with precarious and insecure contracts.
That was the choice made today by the European Parliament which, in adopting Mrs Jeggle's report, has highlighted the important role that women will play in the future enhancement of rural areas.
in writing. - Women are the backbone of the agricultural sector and the rural world and their presence there is increasingly obvious.
It is therefore important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas, taking particular account of the multifunctional nature of these businesses.
Ensuring adequate social cover for all women who work in agriculture is another indispensable factor in modern sustainable farming.
Experience with systems of agricultural social security in the EU Member States should be taken into account and should, in the medium term, contribute to a definite improvement of the social situation of women in agriculture in Europe.
Forty-two per cent of these are women, and at least one agricultural business in five is managed by a woman.
I support the text of this report since it draws attention to the need to plan European support strategies for rural areas that are tailored specifically for women, in order to work towards improving women's social and working conditions in the medium term.
in writing. - (IT) We have no option but to vote in favour of the report on the role of women in agriculture and in rural areas because we still believe in the professional farmer who lives from the income derived from his own business.
There are periods when working days will be 12 to 13 hours long, seven days a week, and others that are quieter.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because I consider that women play a huge role and make a huge contribution to rural and agricultural development.
In the midst of an economic crisis and with galloping unemployment, we must provide incentives to keep women of all ages in the countryside, to support female entrepreneurship and to invest in their training, in order to achieve development and innovation in the agricultural sector.
I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Jeggle for this excellent report, which highlights the extremely important role played by women in agriculture.
I am aware that many of us would like women of every age to remain in the countryside, or we believe that we need to encourage them to move there to ensure the future of rural areas and agriculture in Europe.
In Romania, for example, some women living in the countryside are not eligible for farmer pensions and find it very difficult to start a business in the agricultural sector.
This is why it is paramount that we focus more attention on women working on family or subsistence farms and guarantee them both a decent living and adequate pensions.
in writing. - (PL) I endorsed the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas.
In particular, I am in favour of solutions aimed at increasing levels of employment among women in rural areas.
A large percentage of those without work in rural areas are women under the age of 34.
In the long term, this results in the feminisation of unemployment in rural areas, and thus in higher levels of poverty among young women.
In connection with this, I support the proposal whereby provision should be made in the new EAFRD regulation for special funding aimed at supporting women in the future 2014-2020 programming period.
This may have a positive effect on levels of employment among women in rural areas.
I am also in favour of ensuring appropriate benefits for women living in rural areas, within the framework of social security systems.
These benefits must take into account the fact that women have less earning power and that this affects their pension entitlements.
in writing. - (PL) As a result of social and demographic developments, changing value systems and a wider range of choice, the structure of rural areas is changing.
The role of women in rural areas is also changing.
What is now needed, in order to ensure that women remain in rural areas, or to encourage them to choose a rural lifestyle, is to take greater account of their needs and make sure that these needs are reflected in our support policy.
We should ensure that women are more visible in rural areas, particular in the economic and financial spheres, and we should make instruments available to achieve these tasks.
In view of the fact that it is still women who take care of young children and sick and elderly people, giving up work to do so, we should make it possible for them to achieve a balance between family life and professional life.
The key to achieving these aims will be to include women of all generations in decision-making processes.
It is also of the utmost importance to improve access to medical services and cancer screening programmes for women.
Furthermore, it is still worth supporting and developing agritourism as a low-risk form of economic activity which fosters job creation and work-life balance, and promoting electronic forms of entrepreneurship, such as e-commerce, which make it possible to be economically active regardless of how far you are from urban centres.
in writing. - The EPLP supports the aim of Elisabeth Jeggle's report 'Role of Women in agriculture and rural areas' to highlight the sector specific problems faced by women working in agriculture and many of the measures proposed to strengthen their position.
The report addresses the specific needs of women working in agriculture, by proposing a series of recommendations which take account both of their living conditions and their role and contribution to the development of the rural economy.
We would like to see significant reprioritisation within the Multiannual Financial Framework to fully fund Europe 2020 priorities that have the greatest impact on raising employment and growth levels.
in writing. - I supported this report, which highlights the importance of gender equality in promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development.
I believe that it is important to encourage representation of women in all political, social and economic bodies of the agricultural sector, to ensure that women are participating on an equal basis.
Indeed, the common agricultural policy is of social value in that it recognises the fundamental role women play in preserving the future prospects of rural life and prosperity in rural areas (given that 41% of the 14.6 million persons engaged in agriculture in the EU are women).
The aim in particular is to promote women's entrepreneurial attitude and farming skills, equip rural areas with modern infrastructure which will enable women to achieve a work-life balance (through the creation of day nurseries, for example), aim for a greater representation of women within political, economic and social bodies in the agricultural sector (by making absolute parity the goal) and implement adequate social cover for women working in agriculture as well as shared ownership of farms.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of this report.
There is a continued need for an active support policy in rural areas aimed at offering women better prospects and better work opportunities.
This requires optimum infrastructure in rural areas when it comes to education, further training, schools and childcare, as well as unrestricted access to modern information technology.
I voted in favour of this report, which calls for an improvement in the situation and the recognition of women who work in agriculture and for the ongoing provision of rural aid.
This should be an obvious step, not only for agricultural work, but also in the broader context of all self-employed professions, if we want to achieve true gender equality goals in these areas, where women are particularly badly treated.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of Mrs Jeggle's report.
The report highlights the enormous contribution made by women in recent years to the sustainable development of rural areas and to the diversification and adaptation of farming to market changes.
However, if women are to be offered real prospects in the agricultural sector, the common agricultural policy must encompass more female-oriented aspects, including (as explained in this report) the provision of specific forms of training and counselling, as well as infrastructural aid.
in writing. - (PL) I would like to congratulate Mrs Jeggle on a document which makes a significant contribution to the debate on the shape of the common agricultural policy.
A key factor affecting the increase in economic potential of rural areas is the involvement of women - both in political bodies and agricultural organisations and by means of self-employment.
We should also make better use of opportunities aimed at developing community life in rural areas by drafting and implementing programmes supporting training systems for women's organisations.
Something else which is of key significance in terms of equal opportunities is support for the putting in place of appropriate childcare infrastructure in rural areas, since properly functioning childcare makes it easier for women to return to work more quickly and makes them more competitive in the labour market.
I would like to thank Mrs Jeggle once again for taking my proposals on board during her work on the report.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of EU funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants in the new Member States.
This is a very important document for Lithuania, Bulgaria and Slovakia as they decommission nuclear power plants.
It is noted that considerable financing is still required for decommissioning and that national funds are not sufficient to cover this: the State Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Fund has so far accumulated just over EUR 100 million (while the technical costs of decommissioning alone range from EUR 987 million to EUR 1 300 million).
The European Parliament therefore calls on the EU Member States to take appropriate measures in this respect.
The decommissioning of nuclear power plants is a very complicated process.
Countries do not have sufficient experience to be able to anticipate all the work involved and carry it out efficiently.
The European Parliament is adopting this resolution at the right time, thus encouraging Lithuania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and all EU Member States to implement decommissioning work as efficiently as possible.
This is very important work which will continue to receive much attention from the European Parliament.
When they joined the European Union, Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria made commitments that were politically and economically complex to decommission nuclear power plants, and the European Union made a commitment to allocate the financial assistance required for the decommissioning work, the construction of nuclear waste repositories, the storage of such waste and the development of energy projects.
I believe that the concept of European Union solidarity can contribute effectively to mitigating the negative economic consequences of early closure in the energy sector, but many important issues remain unresolved.
A delay in this process would pose a threat to the environment and human health.
I voted for our fellow Member's report on providing the financial assistance requested by Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria for shutting down nuclear power plants.
The resources allocated must certainly be managed in a proper and transparent manner.
This observation may apply to the nuclear power plants in the new Member States, but it is still relevant for all EU countries that have opted for this technology.
in writing. - (IT) With this report Parliament does well to put pressure on the Commission to ensure that it continues to closely monitor and control the way in which Slovakia, Bulgaria and Lithuania have spent and will spend the considerable sums of finance from which they have benefited in the framework of the programme to dismantle their Soviet-era nuclear power stations to make them secure.
The catastrophic accident in Japan a few weeks ago makes it clear to those who had not already realised that you do not trifle with nuclear energy: whenever one has anything to do with the atom, safety criteria must be applied with the utmost rigour, and the Commission must therefore take responsibility for monitoring the progress of the dismantling programmes of the old power stations in the three ex-communist countries.
The commitment taken on by Lithuania, Bulgaria and Slovakia during EU accession negotiations to dismantle old nuclear reactors that proved impossible to adapt to meet the required minimum safety standards, must be a sustained and coherent commitment, in respect of which the European Union has for some time now established and provided packages of support and finance.
I also hope that they are able to catch up on accrued delays and finish work by the end of the agreed time period.
Compliance with nuclear safety standards and protection for the population against nuclear risk are particularly important aspects which justify the funding granted by the European Union to the three Member States for decommissioning their nuclear power stations, which could have no longer been modernised to meet the highest safety standards.
However, I fully support the point of view expressed in this resolution as I think that we need to monitor the way in which these funds are spent so as to ensure that they make an effective contribution to guaranteeing the safety of the decommissioning process.
It is vital to demonstrate transparency in the way this money is spent to guarantee the funding's effectiveness and, ultimately, to ensure that European taxpayers' money is being spent responsibly.
European Union financial assistance has been made available in the form of contributions to three International Decommissioning Support Funds administered by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union is concerned about the possible safety consequences from decommissioning the old nuclear power plants in new Member States and by the possible inadequate management of the radioactive waste they generate.
At the same time, the Union must constantly promote the development of alternative energy resources which have low emissions and are competitive, in order to remedy the adverse economic and social consequences arising from the process of decommissioning old nuclear power plants.
Parliament has also demanded that the European Court of Auditors draft a special report on these three decommissioning programmes by the end of the year, in order to establish whether the money spent has truly helped to improve safety.
in writing. - (CS) The report on the effectiveness of EU funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants in the new Member States presents a summary of EU funding for the disconnection and dismantling of the nuclear plants at Ignalina in Lithuania, Bohunice in Slovakia and Kozloduj in Bulgaria.
The decommissioning of old and unsafe nuclear power plants in Europe is essential for sustaining the life and health of European citizens.
I hope that the oldest nuclear plants in France will also be shut down and decommissioned in a similar way.
I will vote for the adoption of the report, as it is necessary to complete the process of closing and decommissioning the Ignalina, Bohunice a Kozloduj plants, with the appropriate funding from the EU.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on EU funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants in the new Member States.
I believe that the EU should support the closure of these facilities and investment in alternative energy projects, in order to guarantee the safety and protect the health of the European public, to reduce energy dependency, and to minimise potential social costs.
in writing. - (PT) Prior to their accession, the rules regarding nuclear energy and radioactive waste in place in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe were less stringent than the rules applicable in the EU at the time.
In addition, some of these countries continued to operate old, Soviet-manufactured reactors that could not be adapted to the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost.
The purpose of the EU assistance is to support these three Member States in coping with the financial and economical burden caused by early fixed closure dates, and to cover the cost of many important decommissioning activities, invest in energy projects with the aim of reducing energy dependency and help to mitigate the social impact of the decommissioning of the power plants.
We know that the average age of reactors in operation in nuclear plants in nearly half of the Member States of the European Union is relatively high, which has created the need to decommission some of these reactors for reasons of safety, and of defending and safeguarding public health and the environment.
In the case of the new Member States, faced with the requirement to decommission a number of units, it seems only right to us that they can expect EU support to properly and safely complete the decommissioning processes.
These processes should include necessary maintenance and surveillance following shutdown, waste treatment, waste and spent fuel storage and decontamination, the environmental upgrading of facilities, and support for replacing the production capacity of shut-down plants, paying particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency.
Finally, it should be noted that the social consequences of these processes also need to be taken into account, guaranteeing - in addition to all safety conditions, before, during and after decommissioning - that workers' jobs and other rights will be safeguarded.
in writing. - Paragraph 7 of the Marinescu report notes that the decommissioning of certain nuclear power stations in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria 'should be assigned the highest priority in the interests of the safety and health of all the people of Europe'.
I fully agree with that statement but would go further: a complete move away from nuclear power in all Member States would be in the interests of the safety and health of our people.
in writing. - (LT) As you know, Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria operated old soviet design nuclear reactors which the international community concluded could not be upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost.
In recognition of the fact that the early closure represented an exceptional financial burden, and as an act of solidarity, the European Union committed itself to provide adequate additional financial assistance for the decommissioning of these reactor units until the end of 2013.
The Commission should report on the results of the reassessment of the project timeline.
The EU Member States must take appropriate measures in this respect.
These may represent a new challenge for the EU that could in future pose a real threat to the health of our people and our environment.
As part of their accession negotiations, these three countries have undertaken to shut down and decommission the nuclear reactors within an agreed timetable.
in writing. - (IT) The subject of the efficiency and efficacy of the EU's financing of projects to decommission nuclear power stations in the new Member States is relevant now more than ever.
The report by Mr Marinescu examines, more specifically, the provision of adequate financial resources to guarantee the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
Indeed, on their entry to the European family, these states assumed responsibility for decommissioning the nuclear power plants on their territories.
The EU is committed to providing sufficient financial support to meet these obligations.
In fact, I believe that the European Union must propose decisive action on certain subjects that its citizens hold close to their hearts, including that of the safety of nuclear power plants.
Thanks to the release of very substantial appropriations, which will total EUR 2 848 million by the end of 2013, it has been possible to shut down all of those plants and to ensure a partial conversion to other energy sources in those Member States.
That is why I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution.
in writing. - I voted for this report which deals with the three countries, Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria, that operated old soviet design nuclear reactors which the international community, in line with the G7 multilateral programme of action adopted at the Munich G7 summit in 1992, concluded could not be upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost.
In recognition of the fact that the early closure represented an exceptional financial burden and as act of solidarity, the European Union committed itself to provide adequate additional financial assistance for decommissioning these reactor units until the end of 2013.
in writing. - (PT) This report is on EU funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants in the new Member States.
These plants represent a danger to public health and to the ecosystem, not only in their country of origin, but also throughout Europe and the world.
With regard to the subject matter of the report, I voted in favour of contributing to the decommissioning of these old plants.
I voted in favour, with particular reference to the financing of the decommissioning of the nuclear power plants covered by this report.
The recent accident in Japan has highlighted the risks inherent to nuclear plants.
in writing. - The resolution assesses plans to decommission out-of-date nuclear stations in three EU countries: Ignalina in Lithuania, Bohunice in Slovakia, Kozloduy in Bulgaria.
in writing. - (DE) Upgrades to some nuclear reactors in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria to ensure that they meet the required minimum safety standard are either impossible or come at an economically unreasonable cost.
Around EUR 1 300 million had been paid out to Lithuania (Ignalina), Slovakia (Bohunice V1) and Bulgaria (Kozloduy) up to 2009.
During the Russian-Ukrainian gas crisis, Slovakia considered reactivating the decommissioned Bohunice power plant in order to make up for the energy deficit caused by the lack of gas supplies from Russia.
Japan has shown us how easily a nuclear power plant can get out of control.
in writing. - (RO) There is absolutely no question that in the interest of the safety and health of all European citizens, the EU and Member States must give top priority to the decommissioning of the relevant nuclear power plants in the new Member States.
I agreed with this resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of EU funding in the area of decommissioning nuclear power plants in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
Above all, we must strive to ensure that all decommissioning work is carried out in time while properly implementing all the necessary safety measures and eliminating even minimal risks to human health and the environment.
If we are committed to decommissioning Ignalina and other nuclear power plants, all financial resources allocated to this process must be used as intended following the principle of transparency and efficiency.
We must make every effort to ensure that dismantling activities and management of decommissioning waste will have started by 2013.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of the text on EU funding for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria because, in light of recent events following the earthquake and nuclear crisis in Japan, I believe it is fundamental and crucial that the European Union adopts a policy of safety checks on nuclear reactors which will remove any degree of risk.
Old Soviet-design nuclear reactors were active in the territories of the countries in question, and these have proved technically impossible to modernise to meet currently required international safety standards.
Funding provided by the EU is consistent with the economic burden borne by these countries in order to close the nuclear power stations.
In the context of the accession negotiations, the three countries undertook to close and subsequently decommission these reactors on fixed dates.
Recognising that early closure represented an exceptional financial burden, and in solidarity, the European Union undertook to provide adequate additional financial assistance for the decommissioning of these reactors up to the end of 2013.
The assistance programme has been subject to regular audits and assessments.
The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is currently carrying out audits of the results of the three programmes, and a report is expected in autumn 2011.
I voted in favour of this report, from which I would stress the Commission's recommendation for harmonising the rules on funding the decommissioning of nuclear reactors.
in writing. - (IT) The European Parliament's motion for a resolution on the efficiency and efficacy of the EU's financing for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new Member States, as presented on 14 March 2011, aims to ascertain what stages have been reached in the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations in Lithuania, Bulgaria and Slovakia, which since 1999 have benefited from financial assistance from the EU for this project.
Nonetheless, it remains a serious concern that the decommissioning plans have yet to be finalised, and that efforts will have to be made to improving the management of financial resources as well as coordination between the national authorities of the relevant Member States.
For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - The three countries, Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria, operated old soviet-design nuclear reactors that the international community, in line with the G7 multilateral programme of action adopted at the Munich G7 summit in 1992, concluded could not be upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards at an economically acceptable cost.
In the context of the negotiations for accession to the European Union, the three countries took the commitment to close and subsequently decommission these nuclear reactors on fixed dates.
In recognition of the fact that the early closure represented an exceptional financial burden and as act of solidarity, the European Union committed itself to provide adequate additional financial assistance for decommissioning these reactor units until the end of 2013.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of this report because I consider it of prime importance for us to continue to closely monitor the decommissioning phase of nuclear power plants in Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria where, at the moment of their entry into the European Union, old Soviet-design nuclear reactors were still in operation, which have proved impossible to upgrade to more recent safety standards at a sustainable cost.
in writing. - (NL) Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria had old, Soviet-period nuclear plants that the international community decided could not be upgraded to meet minimum safety requirements for an economically reasonable cost.
The European Parliament fears that these delays will lead to risks for the environment and human health.
I am satisfied with this report, not least because this House backed my amendments, which were tabled in the Committee on Budgetary Control and called for the funds to be managed and their resources to be used with absolute transparency.
The European Parliament also adopted my proposal to have the Commission report annually to Parliament and inform us of whether its forecasts that the resources set aside will be absorbed over the next three years prove accurate.
This report forms the basis for very close monitoring of this process and that is a positive thing from a wide variety of points of view.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as I support the gradual decommissioning of nuclear power plants.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of this report.
The dismantling of the plants in Ignalina, Bohunice and Kozloduy is taking too long and greater commitment should be required from the national operators.
It is urgently necessary for all Member States also to urge common standards for the dismantling of plants.
In their EU accession negotiations, the three countries, namely Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria, declared their willingness to remove these three unsafe nuclear power plants from the network.
in writing. - (LT) The tragic events that occurred last month in Japan and concern over the safety of the Fukushima power plant have led to much discussion of nuclear power plants.
The EU provided Lithuania with EUR 837 million of assistance to eliminate the consequences of the closure of the nuclear power plant over the period 2007-2013.
In this context, it is particularly good news to know that the closure of the Ignalina plant in Lithuania means that the country's only nuclear power plant has been taken offline.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created in 2006 in order to provide additional assistance for workers affected by the consequences of significant changes in the structure of international trade and to assist in their reintegration into the labour market.
That is why I voted for this report relating to the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of the Czech Republic, with the objective of supporting workers made redundant from Unilever ČR spol.s r.o.
in writing. - (CS) It is a success of the European Parliament that the 2011 budget allocates for the first time payment resources amounting to EUR 47 608 950 in the budget item for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
In my opinion, the EGF has proved its worth, and my only concern is that the new Member States have not made greater use of it.
in writing. - (CS) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was established in 2006 as a flexible instrument for the rapid provision of one-off, time-limited individual support to help workers laid off as a result of globalisation or the financial and economic crisis.
This marks the first release of resources from the fund for the Czech Republic since the eruption of the global economic and financial crisis, and it is specifically for mitigating the consequences of the lay-off of 634 workers of the Unilever company, which has shut down a factory in the municipality of Nelahozeves.
In view of the fact that 52.4% of those laid off are women, and more than 13% of the workers laid off are over 54 years old, I consider the release of resources for the Czech Republic to be very proper, and I therefore voted in favour of the report.
I am pleased with the work carried out on the basis of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), namely in supporting workers affected by changes in world trade.
In the same way, I support the decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of the Czech Republic, for the benefit of workers in the company Unilever, which has seen more than 500 unexpected redundancies as a result of the world economic and financial crisis.
I voted in favour of this report and of the amendment calling for a review of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
This is because I regret that the EGF as it stands does not require an investigation into the financial health, possible tax evasion or state aid situation of multinational companies whose restructuring justifies the intervention of the EGF.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen again this time to support the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund - this time to help a total of around 1 200 people who have lost their jobs in Poland and the Czech Republic - because Europe is still suffering the effects of the economic crisis and exceptional times require exceptional measures.
However, we believe that in future we should instead use instruments that already exist - in particular the European Social Fund - in order to increase the employability of those who have been given notice or have been made redundant.
in writing. - (PT) The request relates to 634 redundancies from the company Unilever ČR, which operates in the retail sector in the Czech region of Střední Čechy.
I support the Commission's proposal to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), and hope that the redundant workers will be able to find new jobs as quickly as possible.
This report is on a draft decision of the European Parliament and Council on the mobilisation of EUR 323 820 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), to support the reintegration of Czech workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis.
This application, the second to be approved under the 2011 EU Budget, was submitted to the Commission on 24 March 2010 and concerns 634 workers from the company Unilever ČR, in the Střední Čechy region, who were working in the retail sector.
Given that this involves a specific budgetary instrument, and that the amount requested is legally acceptable and complies with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission, namely point 28, I am voting in favour of this proposal, and hope that it contributes to reducing the economic difficulties of this region's inhabitants, and to relaunching the local economy.
Another mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), this time to support workers made redundant from a factory owned by the multinational Unilever in the Czech Republic.
We therefore regret the lack of information relating to public assistance awarded to this group, as well as to multinational companies generally whose restructuring is the reason for EGF interventions.
I therefore drew attention, during the debate in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, to the fact that that no information was available on what is happening with the Unilever group at European level, and I proposed that this issue be taken into account during the review of the Regulation, so that there can be an examination of the financial situation, including state aid, of the multinational companies whose restructuring is the reason for EGF interventions, without compromising access to the fund for redundant workers.
We therefore voted in favour of these proposals.
I voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in support of the food industry employees (UNILEVER) in the Czech Republic.
To this end, during the vote I co-signed and secured the adoption of an amendment specifying that it is detrimental for the regulation not to require an investigation into the financial health, possible tax evasion or state aid situation of multinationals which benefit from the intervention of the EGF.
At a time when the European Union is struggling to finance its objectives and is obliged to choose between policies of equally high priority, the Community budget cannot afford to fund the market entry and relocation strategies of large multinational companies whose sole intention is to increase their profits.
in writing. - (CS) I recommend voting in favour of the Barbara Matera report on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), within the framework of which the Czech Republic has submitted its first request for support.
I consider it important to emphasise the significance of this fund, which was created under Czech social democrat commissioner Vladimír Špidla.
The financial and economic earthquake that followed has deprived many people throughout Europe of their jobs.
The resources from the EGF fund only those measures which smooth the way to a new job for people who have been made redundant, who have signed up to the professional training programmes and acquired a skill answering to the needs of the labour market, or who have become self-employed.
Pursuant to Mrs Matera's report, I can recapitulate that Unilever has fulfilled all of the criteria.
Unilever ČR had to close the plant in Nelahozeves due to the effects of the economic crisis, and the lay-offs affected most of the workers.
I can therefore agree with the release of resources based on the information in this report, and with the Commission's proposal to pay the Czech Republic EUR 323 820 from the EGF.
in writing. - (LT) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market.
The scope of the EGF was broadened for applications submitted from 1 May 2009 to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
The Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 allows the mobilisation of the EGF within the annual ceiling of EUR 500 million.
This application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions.
The Commission, therefore, proposes to mobilise an amount of EUR 323 820.
I therefore agreed that the EGF should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by the Czech Republic.
I also believe that other EU Member States should take more advantage of the opportunities offered by the EU funds.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Czech Republic, because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers experiencing difficulty on account of the economic crisis.
Today's vote concerned a request for support for 634 workers in the enterprise Unilever ČR, operating in the retail sector in the NUTS II region of Střední Čechy, amounting to a sum of EUR 323 820 financed by the EGF.
Finally, I should like to emphasise the importance of the EGF, which has been shown to be a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - I welcome this report which releases funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to assist workers made redundant in the Czech Republic.
The application relates to 634 redundancies that occurred following the closure of a Unilever plant in Nelahozeves in the last quarter of 2009.
The EU is an area of solidarity and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is part of that.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of low labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with damaging effects on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is intended to help workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is essential for facilitating access to new employment.
The EGF has been used by other EU countries in the past, so now it is appropriate to grant this aid to the Czech Republic, which has applied for assistance with regard to 634 redundancies - all potential beneficiaries of aid - from the company Unilever ČR, spol.sr.o, which operates in the retail sector in the NUTS II region of Střední Čechy.
Although I voted in favour of this proposal to provide assistance to the workers of Unilever in the Czech Republic, I believe that this is an analgesic and palliative measure for the consequences of the capitalist model, and that it does not represent any real progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis.
I agree with the mobilisation of resources from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for people made redundant due to structural changes in trade patterns or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis.
I also voted in favour because I am convinced that this assistance complements the redundancy aid provided for in all national legislation and collective agreements.
in writing. - (DE) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was established to protect workers who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
The Czech Republic has applied for support for 634 redundancies.
It is only right and proper that we should offer personal support to workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis, aiding their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - (IT) The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a fund allocated by the Union to provide economic support to certain sectors in difficulty within Members States or to those sectors which are expanding towards the average standards of the Union.
It is for this reason that I voted in favour of Mrs Matera's report.
Specifically, these are the first requests for mobilisation in 2011 from the machinery production and manufacturing sector in the Czech Republic and Poland.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
On 15 February 2011, the Commission adopted a new draft decision on mobilising the EGF in favour of the Czech Republic, with the aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the world economic and financial crisis.
The process refers to the redundancy of 594 workers - all potential beneficiaries of aid - from the company Unilever ČR, spol.sr., which operates in the retail sector in the region of Střední, during the four-month reference period between 16 September 2009 and 16 January 2010.
The Commission's assessment concluded that there is a link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial and economic crisis, and that these redundancies were unforeseen in nature.
The application meets all of the eligibility criteria set out in the EGF Regulation, which is why I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund.
The Czech Republic's application for intervention by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) relates to 634 redundancies that occurred during the period between 16 September 2009 and 16 January 2010 inclusive at the company Unilever ČR, spol.sr.o, which operates in the retail sector in the NUTS II region of Střední Čechy, meets all of the legally defined eligibility criteria.
Under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and Council of 18 June 2009, which amended Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the European Parliament and Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the EGF's scope was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this, in which, as a direct result of the world economic and financial crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
in writing. - As usually in this type of reports, the EP: 1.
Requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF; appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the Commission, following the EP request for accelerating the release of grants, aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the Commission's assessment on the eligibility of an EGF application together with the proposal to mobilise the Fund; hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the Fund; 2.
Recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; points out the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; however, calls for an evaluation on the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the EGF-funded measures.
in writing. - (IT) On 15 February 2011, the Commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of the Czech Republic, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
The question under examination refers to 634 redundancies, all targeted for assistance from the fund, made by the Unilever enterprise operating in the retail sector in the NUTS II region of Střední Čechy, during the four-month reference period of the four months from 16 September 2009 to 16 January 2010.
My vote in favour of today's resolution confirms the favourable opinion I have already expressed at the meeting of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
in writing. - (CS) The release of funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund will support the reintegration of 460 workers affected by the closure of the Unilever company in the municipality of Nelahozeves in Central Bohemia in the Czech Republic.
In view of the fact that this will involve significant help in solving the social impacts connected with the mass lay-off in this small community, I have voted for the adoption of this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which will provide funding for personalised measures to help workers who have been made redundant in the Czech Republic.
Officially, this fund enables the European Union to finance concrete actions to offset the effects of the crisis.
in writing. - (DE) I can only endorse the amendment tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament requiring that a company be evaluated as a whole when awarding funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on dual-use items and technology, meaning goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes.
Controlling the export of dual-use goods is a key for the non-proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass destruction (WMD).
I believe that the EU should aim to apply the strictest export regimes on every item, and this should be applicable to all of its Member States.
The Commission must establish an effective system in this area, which would facilitate the collection of credible data on the end use of the dual-use items exported from the Union.
For 15 years the EU has been tightening control of the export of dual-use goods, relying on preventive measures such as the imposition of export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures.
I agreed with this report and the European Parliament's proposals that strive to ensure more democratic and transparent EU control regimes for dual-use goods and a greater role for the Commission in assessing the implementation of this regulation in the Member States.
I voted for this report because the control of exports of dual-use items is a key factor in the non-proliferation of weapons, especially weapons of mass destruction.
Given the large volume of cross-border trade in the European Union, the enforcement of controls on EU exports of dual-use items is based on preventive measures, such as imposing export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures.
Export controls have a considerable impact on EU trade policy as they can affect more than 10% of all EU exports.
in writing. - (IT) Export controls of dual-use items, meaning goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes, have been the subject of EU-level actions for around 15 years.
These controls have a high impact on European trade policy, since they can affect over 10% of all EU exports.
The main export control tool is Regulation (CE) No 428/2009, which introduced a number of significant changes to the scope of dual-use export controls -use items in the European Union.
I am voting in favour of the report because it aims to introduce more transparent control procedures for the aforementioned exports.
I voted for the proposal for amending the regulation as I think that the new points introduced will result in making the EU's dual-use regime more transparent and democratic.
Furthermore, it is the Dual-Use Coordination Group's job to submit an annual report to Parliament so that the latter is fully informed about the progress on controlling products and technologies which can be used for both civil and military purposes.
Products, including software and technologies, that can be used for both civil and military purposes are considered dual-use technology products.
This dual use means particular care is needed with regard to their export, to prevent the proliferation of weapons and, above all, of weapons of mass destruction.
As is clear to any analyst, it is essential for international security that there be control of these products, and that the regulations establishing the relevant control mechanisms be constantly updated in line with technological developments.
It is also clear that, in states under the rule of law, these controls should be transparent and democratic, as is the Commission's intention.
Finally, I believe, as stated in the Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that the Commission needs to be sensitive to the fact that some EU Member States have more restrictive and stringent rules with regard to control of exports of dual-use products.
This is natural and, in my opinion, should be maintained.
This report is on the need to control the export and circulation of what are called dual-use products: that is, those that have not only a civil but also a military one.
Over the last few years, the European Union has been taking a number of measures to prevent these materials being used for the manufacture of weapons, particularly weapons of mass destruction.
The EU's main instrument of control is Regulation (EC) No 428/2009, of 5 May, which covers the sale and transportation of these materials, but which needs to be amended in order to prevent different approaches being taken in different Member States.
I therefore agree with the proposals included in this report, as they aim to reassure the European public with regard to the production and circulation of dual-use materials, and to make the current arrangements more transparent and democratic.
Export controls on dual-use products are the subject of measures at EU level.
The main instrument for controlling exports is Regulation (EC) No 428/2009 of 2009.
This regulation expanded the scope of controls on sale and transportation.
Although there is an attempt in the report to introduce increased democratic controls and transparency, there are certain key issues preventing us from voting in favour of it.
Another aspect is the inclusion of Israel on the list of destination countries for dual-use products.
Let us recall, for example, the joint research projects financed by the Seventh Framework Programme for Research, especially those that took place with the participation of Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd., manufacturer of the unmanned aircraft used in the attack on the Gaza Strip in 2008/2009, causing the deaths of dozens of people.
We voted in favour of returning this report to the relevant parliamentary committee, to enable negotiations with the Council to continue, on the basis of the legislative proposal with the amendments introduced by Parliament.
Although this control of exports is important, and should be carried out in a judicious manner, without adversely affecting access by developing countries to products and technologies required for their development, there is a need to increase the transparency of the processes involved, and to open them up to democratic scrutiny.
We would emphasise that there is also a need for consistency in this area between other EU policies and the objectives of this Regulation.
Taking into account furthermore the procedure in committee, I confirm my support for my fellow Member.
I voted in favour of this document, because it proposes improving the regime for the control of exports of dual-use items and technology, in other words, enhancing export checks on dual-use goods.
This document also extends the list of goods for which a licence must be obtained and export movement must be reported.
in writing. - (DE) Items and technology with civil and potential military uses should be subject to the same competitive conditions in all Member States.
The point is to find common and, above all, secure framework conditions that ensure safe usage.
This should prevent an artificial reduction in the sale prices of European exports, clearly strengthening European small and medium-sized businesses.
I voted in favour of the proposed amendment to the regulation because transparency and safety must be the top priority for such items and technology.
in writing. - I welcome this report.
Export controls of dual-use items, meaning goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes, have been the subject of EU-level actions for around 15 years.
Controlling the export of dual-use goods is a key for the non-proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass destruction.
Given the high volume of trade across the borders of the European Union, the enforcement of EU export controls on dual-use goods relies on preventive measures such as the imposition of export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures.
Export controls have a high impact on the EU's trade policy as they can affect more than 10% of all EU exports.
The main EU export control tool is the Dual-use Regulation (EC) No 428/2009 of 5 May 2009, which entered into force on 27 August 2009.
This new Regulation introduced a number of significant changes to the scope of dual-use export controls in the European Union.
These include the introduction of controls on brokering activities and transit with regard to dual-use items.
in writing. - (CS) Controlling the trade in dual-use goods is an important area, with both security and commercial aspects that would not be sufficiently effective and enforceable without the associated flow of shared information or flexible international cooperation.
In this context, I would also like to emphasise the role of the relevant monitoring bodies, for example customs authorities, which shoulder considerable responsibility for the direct monitoring of exports or transit of dual-use goods.
In my opinion, we should also assist these bodies, for example in the area of access to modern monitoring equipment, the acquisition of new expertise in the performance of monitoring procedures and, last but not least, through support for professional training and work exchange visits.
A sophisticated security policy should always include setting up the export regime for dual-use goods to a high standard, along with the application of all international commitments.
in writing. - Dual-use items are products which can be used either for peaceful or for military purposes.
This term particularly relates to items and technology that can also be put to military use.
In order to prevent abuses in the export sector, there are four types of export authorisations: the Community General Export Authorisations, National General Export Authorisations, Global Export Authorisations and Individual Export Authorisations.
In addition, there are also international export control regimes to which the EU subscribes and in which the Commission attempts to improve the standing of the EU.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as in a limited way it takes a step in the direction of tackling the current lack of transparency in relation to export credits and in tackling the massive gap between the stated objectives of the EU and the reality of how export credits are used in the EU.
To achieve real trade justice in this area, these agencies, which support approximately 10% of world trade, must be taken into democratic public ownership.
The books must be opened up so that the workers and those affected by them can see for the first time where the money has gone and workers' control must be exercised on the operation of these agencies so that their massive resources are used for the benefit of working people, small farmers and the environment.
It is a recasting of Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000 in the light of the current international framework.
In fact, the widening of the scope of dual-use export controls is essential if these are to cover controls on transit and brokering, and the penalising of illicit brokering of dual-use items linked to, for example, a weapons of mass destruction programme.
in writing. - (IT) The proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000 setting up a Community regime for the control mechanism of exports of dual-use items and technology, as tabled on 7 February 2011, aims to supply the Union with an efficient regime of preventive measures designed to prevent the proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction.
TheRegulation that is currently in force in this area ((EC) No 428/2009) establishes a system of checks which allows the Union to comply fully with the commitments assumed in the context of the four international export control regimes to which the EU is a party.
In any case, the clarification of the EU's competencies in the area of international trade introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon provides a good occasion to raise the profile and improve the image of the Union in an international context and the role, power and responsibility of the European Parliament within the EU's institutional framework for decision making in the area of international trade.
These are my reasons for considering it opportune to make the necessary amendments to the Regulation in order to achieve these ends and I am therefore voting in favour of the proposal.
We were also able to delete the part on 'Information Security' of EU007 because among the possible destinations were some non-democratic countries.
But the most contentious and important issue was the question of whether it is sufficient to control, notify and register after the export has taken place or prior to the export.
in writing. - (IT) The control of exports of dual-use items, that is goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes, has been the subject of EU-level actions for around 15 years.
Given the high volume of trade across the borders of the European Union, the enforcement of EU export controls on dual-use goods must rely on preventive measures such as the imposition of export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures.
in writing. - (NL) The control of exports of dual-use items - in other words goods that can be used for both civil and military purposes - is very important in relation to the non-proliferation of weapons.
Export credits are an important instrument for supporting EU enterprises.
I agree with the opinion that support for medium and long-term export credits is a powerful tool which is not yet fully exploited in all Member States and needs to be encouraged.
Nevertheless, it should be observed that currently there is insufficient transparency to find out what export credit agencies (ECAs) finance or have financed in the past.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to establish a requirement for the EU Member States to report to the Commission annually on the activities of their ECAs as regards risk calculations and the disclosure of off-balance sheet vehicles, and to make the notification of social and environmental risk calculations mandatory.
The collective magnitude of the export credit guarantees provided in the period 2004-2009 by the ECAs of the EU Member States alone was in the range of EUR 468 billion.
I agreed with the report and the requirement to submit annual reports to the European Commission and the European Parliament, because currently there is very little data showing what ECAs finance or have financed in the past, and some national ECAs do not even report the overall balance of their annual operations regularly, which violates the principles of transparency.
in writing. - (IT) The aim of the European Commission's proposal is to introduce the 'Arrangement on officially supported export credits' as negotiated by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) into European legislation so as to ensure EU norms and transparency in the operations of national export credit agencies.
They are government agencies or quasi-official financial institutions that provide export credits, loans, insurance and investment guarantees for companies operating in high-risk areas abroad, including many developing countries.
It should be noted that financing of such major projects in developing countries represents several times the combined annual funding of all multilateral development banks.
I believe the improvements to the agreement in question to be positive, particularly with regard to greater transparency, and I believe it essential to state explicitly that ECAs should take into account and respect EU policies and objectives, not least values associated with the consolidation of democracy, respect for human rights and consistency with development policy.
in writing. - (IT) Foreign trade is one of the most powerful political tools we have available in our dealings with third countries.
At least until it becomes necessary to decide otherwise, the EU has chosen not to have its own army and to adopt trade policy as its main negotiating tool in international relations, and in this respect it has not been without success.
Direct foreign investment in our businesses, furthermore, represents a source of development for third countries in which work is created and it is certainly worthwhile encouraging these links through export credit agencies.
The transfer of all competencies relating to international trade from the level of the States to that of the Union is a further step in the establishment of a single industrial policy, with a view to a common economic policy and, on the horizon, further synergies between our States.
The activities of Export Credit Agencies will need to be better supervised at European level and conducted in a more transparent manner.
These agencies will be required to publish an annual activity report in order to verify whether the supported projects fulfil the European Union's environmental, social and development objectives.
MEPs have called for fossil fuel subsidies to be phased out in order to encourage the ecological transition, in line with national and European commitments on combating climate change.
Through this vote, Parliament is reaffirming its desire to see the systematic application of financial transparency measures and measures to incorporate the climate change issue in all EU policies, including those in relation to trade and investments of European companies.
It is also important to ensure complete consistency with the objectives of Article 208 of the Treaty, which establishes the reduction and eradication of poverty as the main objectives of the Union's development cooperation policy.
The Commission and Council are currently reviewing the legislative framework - called the 'Arrangement on officially supported export credits' - to transfer it into EU law.
The purpose is to provide additional legal certainty for the export credit agencies (ECAs) of the Member States.
Export credits are effective instruments for supporting EU companies, as they are able to help with job creation and the implementation of projects that would otherwise have difficulties securing financing.
In reality, the majority of Member States have export credit agencies (ECAs), which play an essential role in supporting European trade and business investment, totalling EUR 468 billion in 2004-2009.
The main objective of direct aid or credit continues to be the control of markets and natural resources, the exploitation of workers, and the use of products or investments to control the sovereignty of destination countries that are made possible by ECA financing.
The main objective of direct aid or credit continues to be the control of markets and natural resources, the exploitation of workers, and the use of products or investments to control the sovereignty of destination countries that are made possible by ECA financing.
Transparency regarding the use of these funds is therefore compulsory.
in writing. - (LT) As is known, it is impossible to find out what export credit agencies (ECAs) finance or have financed in the past.
Some national ECAs do not even report the overall balance of their annual operations regularly.
There are proposals to tidy up transparency requirements on risk calculations, disclose off-balance sheet vehicles, make the notification of social and environmental risk calculations mandatory and to establish a requirement for the EU Member States to annually report to the Commission on the activities of their ECAs in these regards.
I therefore voted in favour of this document, because it will introduce more transparency and standards in the application of social and environmental risk calculations.
in writing. - (LV) I supported the resolution for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits, because I consider that clear rules are needed for all European Union Member States on how to support exporting businesses.
Export credit guarantees are an important means of helping entrepreneurs to acquire new markets and create new jobs.
However, I did not support Amendment 22, which imposes an extra burden on entrepreneurs and makes European businesses less competitive than entrepreneurs in other member states of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
In a time of crisis, European Union Member States must reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, not create a new one.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
I view export credits as an important instrument for supporting EU enterprises.
Support for medium- and long-term export credits is a powerful tool which is not yet fully exploited in all Member States and needs to be encouraged.
I shall vote against the report, however, to express my bitter regret that the Committee on International Trade is not seeking to give itself the means to keep to social and environmental targets worthy of the name.
Export credit agencies (ECAs) have been playing an increasingly important role in supporting all types of investments, thus contributing to reducing the impact of the current economic and financial crisis by creating jobs, and by supporting the trade and investment of companies that would otherwise not be granted credit in the private sector.
A significant proportion of export credit financing projects in developing countries are concentrated in sectors such as transport, petroleum, gas and extractive industries, as well as in major infrastructure projects, such as large dams, for example.
in writing. - The EU is a participant in the Agreement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits concluded in the framework of the OECD.
It will be correct if the European Parliament adopts amendments to the proposal of the Commission intended to apply additional measures for transparency and accountability of reports in the European Union.
I have therefore abstained from voting.
I voted in favour of this report, as I agree with the rapporteur that export credit constitutes a powerful instrument for supporting EU companies.
Given the growing number of applications for export credit with official support, it is increasingly important that the most recent Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Agreement on this instrument be introduced by Member States as quickly as possible.
Medium- and long-term export credit is a valuable instrument which is not yet fully exploited in all Member States and needs to be encouraged, especially in a weakened economy like that of Portugal.
The principle of subsidiarity must be scrupulously upheld in this area.
We also need to clarify the obligation of transparency in risk calculations and on the disclosure of off-balance-sheet vehicles.
As the rapporteur Mr°Jadot said, today's vote strengthens the European Parliament's position on the issue and sends out a strong signal to an overly timid European Council.
Export Credit Agencies are an important instrument for the European Union in terms of supporting trade and investments of European companies.
in writing. - (IT) Most industrialised countries have an export credit agency.
I voted in favour of this report because export credits should be subjected to repayment requirements within a certain time limit and that a minimum premium rate should be charged to cover the risk of non-payment.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this important resolution on a new EU policy framework to fight violence against women.
Despite the fact that violence against women has been a topic of debate for several decades, the international community has not managed to put an end to this extremely destructive form of criminality.
To achieve these objectives it is necessary to harmonise criminal law at EU level, and put in place a legal framework, under which offenders would be effectively punished and victims protected.
This is also very important for combating trafficking in human beings.
It is important for young women to be protected against such forced relationships.
In order to stop all forms of violence against women, it is necessary to disseminate information on gender equality, and to actively inform society, particularly those layers where relations between women and men are based on traditions and rituals.
in writing. - (IT) In Europe, one woman in four is a victim of at least some form of violence during her lifetime.
The annual cost of this violence is estimated to be in the region of EUR 33 billion, a figure that should not be underestimated.
Respect for the principle of gender equality is a value which is consistently disregarded in the face of a vast range of human rights violations affecting women, which damage their physical and mental health, their rights and their position in society.
The few figures currently availably do not provide a complete view of the phenomenon, but it is sufficient to observe familial or work contexts to see that we have still not managed to protect women from violence.
The official figures on violence against women are much lower compared to the sad reality in each Member State.
I think that declaring a European Year of Combating Violence Against Women has the potential to raise awareness among Europeans about this problem which features in the everyday lives of a significant number of women in the European Union.
I voted for this report as I support the importance of a European charter which will set out a minimum level of assistance services to be offered to victims of violence against women, with the aim of reducing the incidence of this problem in all Member States.
This own-initiative report was drafted within the framework of the various proposals that the European Commission will announce in 2011 and 2012 on fighting violence against women.
I voted in favour of this report.
The international community must implement a cross-border approach to combat violence against women.
There is no doubt that violence against women violates their basic rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the right to security and human dignity.
Under the Treaty of Lisbon the EU can introduce criminal law provisions, and the Treaty makes particular reference to human trafficking and to the sexual exploitation of children and women.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe it is time that the EU faced this issue and gave good example by means of the legislation and support required to bring an end to violence against women.
A multi-faceted approach must be adopted to ensure the effectiveness of the political, social and legal measures being applied.
Some countries still do not have a law criminalising domestic violence against women.
We encourage the Commission to fight violence against women.
Of course, there are preventive and repressive legal mechanisms in all the Member States.
However, it is not enough to introduce or approve a series of criminal laws for the protection of women; criminal prosecution must also be made more effective.
One practical measure which can be taken is to set up an emergency number for gender-based violence in Member States.
in writing. - (IT) Equality between the sexes is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union.
In my opinion, an important area in which women's physical and mental integrity requires strong legal protection is in relation to genital mutilation.
I am therefore in favour of actions taken to encourage Member States to draw up national action plans to combat gender-based violence.
The mechanisms facilitating access to legal aid, enabling victims to assert their rights anywhere in the European Union must not and cannot be provided free of charge.
I am in favour of establishing a legal framework that gives immigrant women the right to hold their own passport and residence permit, and makes it possible to hold a person criminally responsible for taking these documents away.
in writing. -- (IT) These days, I would expect that a report into violence against women would highlight the absolute emergency represented by the increasing levels of violence against women in the Muslim communities of Europe.
The report mentions, for example, forced marriages and female genital mutilation, but these phenomena, which are growing exponentially in our cities, are tackled as if they are issues related to cultural background.
I voted in favour of this report, because it is necessary to stop violence against women as a matter of urgency.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that one in ten women in Europe has experienced violence and it is one of the most frequent causes of violent death among women.
Gender-based violence covers sexual abuse, human trafficking, forced marriage, genital mutilation and other forms of violations.
Such violent crimes have a major impact on and do irreparable damage to a woman's physical and mental health, and therefore the Member States should ensure better healthcare for the victims of violence.
Even more acts of violence are taking place during the economic and financial crisis, therefore under no circumstances can we reduce financing in this area.
The Commission has made some important decisions in principle towards this end, especially by drawing up a new action plan for gender equality, which stresses that gender-based violence is one of the key problems to be addressed.
The Commission has also announced that it will submit a proposal in 2011 for a strategic plan to combat gender-based violence.
The very fact that women are subjected to violence restricts their opportunities to participate in social and working life.
As a liberal MEP, I cannot but support this report as Member States need a new strategy for combating violence against women, which has a serious impact on women's physical and mental integrity, regarded as a fundamental right.
I think that the EU and Member States must use every instrument available to them to combat gender-based violence.
I believe it to be decisive for the success of combating this European and international problem that the Member States take on responsibilities, naturally involving adoption of the necessary legislation.
I am therefore voting for the new EU policy framework to fight violence against women, as I believe it represents progress in the fight against the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to security and human dignity.
in writing. - I voted for this report as the situation in Ireland mirrors the problem experienced across Europe.
The impact of domestic and physical and/or sexual violence should not be underestimated, as it results in severe damage to individuals' physical and mental health giving rise to severe depression and even suicide.
However Parliament's report also shows the cost to the exchequer as it is estimated that the cost to society of gender-based violence - in the form of spending on healthcare, the legal system and social services - is EUR 2 million per hour in total in all EU Member States.
These NGOs offer vital support for victims of sexual and domestic violence, yet have to cope with a very difficult funding environment.
I hope this report helps fight domestic violence in Europe.
The figures that have come to light in some studies on violence in Europe are unacceptable, with 26% of children and young people having been the target of physical violence, between a fifth and a quarter of the female population having been victim of acts of physical violence at least once during their adult lives, and more than one tenth of them having suffered sexual violence involving the use of force.
In fact, the number of women who are victims is alarming, and the enormous disparities existing between the policies and legislation of each Member State contribute to that, meaning that women do not enjoy the same level of protection throughout Europe.
It is crucial that European legislation ensure comprehensive and consistent protection for all women, through the adoption of a comprehensive legal act enabling all forms of violence against women to be combated, supplemented by a series of measures in a number of political, social and legal areas.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Conservatives agree with the report's depiction of the problem.
In the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme, the Commission made a commitment to propose a strategy to be presented in 2011-2012 to combat violence against women, domestic violence and female genital mutilation.
We voted in favour of the report, as we believe that the Member States must take measures to ensure the safety of women.
in writing. - (RO) I think that, at European level, Member States ought to make additional efforts to compile more comprehensive national statistics which will cover violence against women to a larger extent, regardless of the form in which it occurs - rape, sex trafficking, forced marriages, death, forced prostitution, not to mention violence within the family or from former partners.
However, the aim is also to improve the collection of data on this problem so that the most appropriate solutions can be found for punishing the culprits.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe it is important for a society seeking to be more balanced and fairer.
I therefore believe, as set out in this report, that thorough analysis is needed, along with the creation of better investigative processes for this phenomenon, in order to combat it better internationally.
This report suggests a new approach to gender violence, and the strengthening of measures between the Member States with regard to prevention and criminal penalties, together with assistance measures for victims.
It also asks pertinent questions about the impact of physical, psychological and sexual violence against women in society's various spheres.
in writing. - Men's violence against women is a violation of women's human rights which both reflects and reinforces inequalities between men and women.
Studies on gender-based violence estimate that 20-25% of all women in Europe have experienced physical acts of violence at least once during their adult lives.
I support this report which proposes a new comprehensive policy approach against gender-based violence including: establishing a criminal-law instrument in the form of a directive against gender-based violence; training for officials likely to come into contact with cases of violence against women; requirements for Member States to demonstrate due diligence and to record and investigate all forms of gender-based crimes of violence; asks for financial support to NGOs working to support victims of violence.
The Commission must therefore establish a new European policy framework to fight violence against women.
All forms of violence against women - rape, prostitution, sexual violence, and so on - must be subject to criminal proceedings in all European Union countries.
Every Member State has the duty to provide these women victims with access to free legal aid and shelter facilities which will allow them to build a new and better life for themselves and their children.
This recognition at European level of violence against women as a criminal offence is absolutely crucial.
The European Parliament adopted a report, this Tuesday 5 April 2011, on fighting violence against women.
Today's report will make it possible to implement a criminal-law instrument in the form of a European Union directive to combat gender-based violence.
Indeed, it establishes a European charter, which will ensure a minimum level of assistance, including the right to free legal aid and urgent psychological aid services.
Furthermore, MEPs are calling on the Commission to establish a European observatory on violence against women.
Such gender-based violence is a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as of rights to safety and to human dignity.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament has voted in favour of an EU policy framework to combat violence against women.
The decision was particularly important as it calls on the Commission to fulfil its previous promises to table a specific legislative proposal with a view to combating violence against women.
We are not naive with regard to the problems surrounding surrogacy, but we do not want to attack something on account of these problems that in certain cases can be a positive experience for the parties involved.
That is why we voted against those particular wordings concerning surrogacy - a position that our group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, also adopted in the original vote in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
Violence against women includes a number of serious violations of fundamental rights, such as sexual abuse, attacks on physical integrity and domestic violence, psychological violence, harassment or coercion, and the trafficking of women and their exploitation for prostitution, amongst many other examples of aggression that need to be combated determinedly by the Member States.
It is therefore important that the European Union adopt legislation to bring this tragedy to an end.
Although the European Commission has come up with several initiatives to put an end to this scourge affecting millions of women throughout the world, not least by drawing up a new action plan on gender equality (2010-2015), the truth is that the EU cannot stand idly by while violations of women's fundamental rights are going unpunished, particularly in the following areas: sexual abuse, female genital mutilation and forced marriage, human trafficking and prostitution, lack of legal protection, etc.
Violence against women in its numerous forms - domestic violence, sexual violence, prostitution, the trafficking of women, sexual and psychological harassment, and violence against women in their places of work - represents a serious violation of human rights and freedoms, both individually and collectively, with profoundly negative social consequences.
It is also estimated that around 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence during childhood and adolescence, which is particularly worrying if we take into account premises based on social learning, which hold that today's victim could potentially be tomorrow's attacker.
It is important now that the guidance included in this report be implemented.
We welcome the adoption of this report by the Member from our group, Mrs Svensson, who is also Chair of Parliament's Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
We know that violence against women represents a serious violation of human rights and freedoms, both individually and collectively, with enormous social consequences, given that violence against women involves a wide range of human rights violations, including domestic violence, sexual violence, prostitution, the trafficking of women, sexual and psychological harassment, and violence against women in their places of work.
The prevention and eradication of violence against women are essential strategic objectives important to the progress for which our civilisation is striving.
It is also believed that around 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence during childhood and adolescence, which is particularly worrying if we take into account premises based on social learning... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (IT) Violence against women is an evil in our society that we must fight at all costs.
I voted in favour of Amendment 19 and recital J on the word 'prostitution' because I am of the opinion that prostitution is indeed an act of violence against women.
Violence against women is a reality all too often overlooked: it is thought that between 20 and 25% of European women will have already been subjected to physical violence at least once in their adult life.
Moreover, and importantly, I voted for the introduction of a mechanism to facilitate access to free legal aid, and for urgent psychological aid services to be provided free of charge for victims.
in writing. -- (IT) A European regulatory framework in the fight against violence against women represents one crucial step forward within a comprehensive strategy.
Violence against women makes no distinction by age or ethnic or cultural background, and it remains an invisible problem that has nonetheless very high human, social and economic costs.
The European Union must affirm its active role in fighting discrimination against women and that is why the Svensson report supports the European Commission in its attempts to create a clear and homogenous regulatory framework in the context of the Stockholm Programme.
I am therefore in favour of the request for an instrument of criminal law which would define violence against women as a crime in itself, through the development of a directive against gender-based violence, to be brought in line with the multiple training, prevention and awareness-raising initiatives in order to fight all forms of abuse against women.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because we must stop all violations of women's rights and violence against women.
I believe that according to the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme adopted last year, the Commission should draw up a strategy on combating violence against women as a matter of urgency.
At the same time the Member States must ensure that healthcare providers, social workers, the police, courts and other institutions carry out improvements to enable them to respond to all cases of violence against women in a timely and professional manner.
The Member States should consider drafting a plan to combat gender-based violence.
in writing. - (IT) The European Parliament has approved the proposal for a resolution on the establishment of a new EU policy framework in relation to the fight against violence against women.
Violence against women, whether physical, psychological or sexual is an expression of incivility which Europe must repudiate.
One European woman in four has been a victim of violence at least once in her lifetime.
I believe therefore that the priorities for EU action should be the identification of Union-wide legal instruments, the possibility to make use of free support, the creation of refuges capable of providing psychological and moral assistance and the creation of a single emergency number throughout Europe.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
I voted in favour of this resolution because violence against women continues to be a scourge in Europe and the world, despite the campaigns that the international community has been carrying out for several decades.
It affects the direct victims in the first instance, but it also affects freedom and democracy themselves.
I also voted for the report because it sets out a series of immediate measures that are needed to guarantee women a decent life, and it is clear that long-term political, social and legal measures are required to eliminate gender-based violence.
I voted for the Svensson report on the new EU policy framework to combat violence against women because I am deeply concerned by that type of violence.
This report also proposes a new prospect for combating this blight on society, not just through criminal proceedings, but also through protection from and prevention of the insecure jobs, unemployment and poverty that mean women often find themselves in situations of dependence, and make it impossible for them to choose their future freely.
The Member States must adopt measures to this end at the first opportunity.
in writing. - Men's violence against women is a structural violation of women's human rights.
Counting all forms of male violence against women, 45% of all women in Europe have been subject to and suffered from men's violence.
It is estimated that the total cost of domestic violence within the 27 Member States could be as high as EUR 16 billion.
in writing. - (DE) Despite the fact that there has been progress in recent decades and years in combating violence against women and children, there is still more work to be done.
By permitting migration, the EU has imported problems from every conceivable quarter, including honour killings, forced marriages and domestic violence in patriarchal family structures.
in writing. - (DE) The report draws attention to a number of serious cases of violence against women.
Unfortunately, all of these terrible things can also take place in our society here in the EU.
I voted in favour of the report on violence against women, an initiative which will help women in Europe to live a dignified life.
The provisions in this report for combating violence against women are important, because: it calls on the Member States to punish perpetrators in accordance with the gravity of the crime committed (sexual abuse, human trafficking, forced marriages, female circumcision); it provides the resources needed to help the victims of violence, such as legal assistance, and to create refuges for victims; it provides legal assistance to victims and requires all forms of gender-based violence to be subject to public prosecution; it makes provision for more information for young women through proper education in the risks which they run.
However, I voted against the proposal to increase the number of courts with jurisdiction to hear cases of gender-based violence, because any such proposal introduces unacceptable discrimination and conflicts with the principle of gender equality.
Offences that take the form of violence in the home, sexual abuse, human trafficking, genital mutilation and other forms of violations of integrity that affect women and girls in particular should be made public in order that they may be combated more effectively.
This own-initiative report on of the European Parliament seeks to put together a series of the measures required to ensure that European women have a decent life.
In summary, I believe the European Union needs to adopt the necessary legislation to put an end to this violence, and the Member States need to draw up national action plans for combating gender-based violence.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
Gender-based violence covers offences in the form of violence in close relationships, sexual abuse, human trafficking and prostitution, forced marriages, genital mutilation and other forms of violations against personal integrity which particularly affect women and young girls.
In the initiative report, the European Parliament stresses that it is possible to eliminate this kind of violence by first of all instituting comprehensive and coherent legislative protection of women's integrity.
Shelters for women must be provided at national level in order to enable women and children to live a self-determined life free of violence and poverty.
Such shelters should offer specialised services, medical treatment, legal aid, psychosocial and therapeutic counselling, legal support during court procedure, support for children affected by violence, and so on.
The Member States should ensure appropriate funding means in order that women's shelters can fulfil international standards in working with women survivors of violence and their children.
The Member States should provide the required means for women's organisation and NGOs in order to protect and prevent women and their children from violence and poverty, should guarantee social and economic rights of women so that they do not depend on a partner/husband financially and should promote and develop an integration of women on the labour market.
I voted in favour of this resolution because violence against women continues to be a scourge in Europe and the world, despite the campaigns that the international community has been carrying out for several decades.
It affects the direct victims in the first instance, but it also affects freedom and democracy themselves.
I also voted for the report because it sets out a series of immediate measures that are needed to guarantee women a decent life, and it is clear that long-term political, social and legal measures are required to eliminate gender-based violence.
In the face of figures like these, it is urgent that we act to combat this violence against women in the European Union.
Rape, which at present is still not considered a criminal offence in several Member States, and other forms of sexual violence against women, must be recognised as crimes in all countries in the Union and the perpetrators must be automatically prosecuted.
In order to protect women migrants and asylum seekers, I also call for a legal framework to be established that gives immigrant women the right to hold their own passport and residence permit and makes it possible to hold a person 'criminally responsible' for taking these documents away.
I believe it is essential for this aid to be free and would have liked this point to have appeared clearly in the report. , in writing - (CS) It is always important to combat violence against women, which takes many shapes and forms, leaving its marks both on the body and on the mind, and leading the victims of violence even to commit suicide in some cases.
Despite the fact that violence against women has been a topic of debate over several decades, the international community has not managed to put an end to this extremely destructive form of criminality.
The European Union must therefore shoulder its responsibility and introduce the legislation required to put an end to the violence.
in writing. - (IT) I would have liked to have voted in favour of the report into the fight against violence against women because its aim was to establish comprehensive measures to protect women who have been the victims of violence.
It tackles in a clear way sexual abuse, prostitution, female genital mutilation, stalking, human trafficking and domestic violence: in short, a series of violations of women's rights.
I voted in favour of this particular resolution, because it introduces a framework for a new European policy to fight violence against women.
It proposes a series of clear-cut political measures to fight gender-based violence, including measures to combat human trafficking, which I consider to be particularly important, given the worrying increase in human trafficking to and within the EU, especially of women and children.
These gangs could be combated through transnational cooperation between the EU, which is the destination, and these countries, which are the starting point for these gangs.
in writing. - I will be supporting the Svensson report because it highlights the problem that exists with regard to violence against women.
The report mentions 'traditional or religious practices' just once, and very generally, in paragraph 3, despite the fact that it is well-known that, specifically in Islam, violence against women is the order of the day.
The PVV wants to see violence against women tackled, but is voting against this report because it fails to mention the motives and the background of the perpetrators.
in writing. - I supported this report which puts forward proposals to tackle violence against women across Europe and calls for all Member States to prioritise this issue.
I voted in favour of this own-initiative report, as I believe that any type of violence should be subject to social and legal penalties.
European legislation, in the form of a directive, based on education, the effective protection of victims, cooperation with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and the implementation of a European Year of Combating Violence Against Women, is an example of measures for combating this social scourge, which has harmful consequences for European society.
in writing. - I fully support calls to make sexual and domestic violence against women a criminal offence in all Members States.
As a matter of urgency I urge the Commission to come forward with proposals that will put in place robust measures to counter gender-based violence and protect victims across the EU.
Rape and all other forms of sexual violence must be recognised as crimes in all EU countries and their perpetrators automatically prosecuted.
I agree with my friend and colleague Mrs Svensson when she states that women are victims of gender-based violence; however we must not view women, including those who are victims of this kind of violence, simply as victims.
The role of institutions is to help them rebuild their self-esteem and build a new and better life for themselves and their children.
The resolution also provides for a legal framework to be established to give immigrant women the right to hold their own passport and residence permit, and for anyone who takes these documents away from a woman to be held criminally responsible.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of this report because violence against women is a worldwide problem which the global community has not yet managed to tackle.
Violence against women is found at all levels of society and is not specific to any particular culture, level of education, age or income.
The perpetrators of such violence cause life-long suffering to these women and their children, as well as representing a social problem because the follow-up costs in the areas of health and justice amount to several billion euros.
