Zimbabwe, in particular the case of Farai Maguwu The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on Zimbabwe, in particular the case of Farai Maguwu.
author. - (FI) Madam President, human rights violations in Zimbabwe have been discussed before by this Parliament.
One of their informers was Farai Maguwu, the Director of the Centre for Research and Development on human rights, based in Manicaland.
That is why Mr Maguwu was arrested on 3 June and why, since then, he has been detained in very difficult conditions, having allegedly breached state security provisions.
First of all, we are dealing with Farai Maguwu, a human being and a human rights activist, who was arrested in Zimbabwe and then badly mistreated in prison.
It has cut off, or decreased the amount of, finance for the wars in Congo, Angola, Sierra Leone and Liberia raised through the sale of diamonds.
The Director of the Centre for Research and Development, Farai Maguwu, was arrested by the authorities in his country after condemning the human rights violations in the diamond fields.
Parliament is calling for his release and for Zimbabwe to respect political rights and fundamental freedoms, in order to allow civil society to express itself without fear.
author. - Madam President, since being elected in 1999, I have done my utmost to galvanise opposition from this Parliament to the massive catalogue of injustice that Mugabe and his henchmen have inflicted on the people of Zimbabwe.
For this reason, I think it is important for us to continue to denounce these conditions and, as the European Union, continue to maintain our black list of those who continue to suppress the people in Zimbabwe.
We have said clearly: the government of President Mugabe does not have any legitimacy and its actions are worthy of condemnation - and we should say this most explicitly. (RO) I too wish to join those who have called in this Chamber for the immediate release of Farai Maguwu.
As you are aware, the role of civil society organisations is essential, not only to ensure the success of the Kimberley Process, but also to safeguard democracy in Zimbabwe in general.
The keyword in this case is transparency.
According to Global Witness, in 2008 Africa exported USD 393 billion worth of petroleum and minerals, which corresponds to nine times the total amount of aid that the continent received.
Farai Maguwu was arrested on charges of publishing information prejudicial to the state.
Therefore, the release of Farai Maguwu lies in the interest of Zimbabwe itself, and I hope the authorities will listen to our appeal in this matter.
Therefore, our appeal for the income from diamonds to be used for health care, education and social needs is both justified and feasible. (RO) The case we are discussing today, involving the arrest and detention of Farai Maguwu well over a month ago, reflects the lack of progress made in Zimbabwe in terms of respect for human rights.
During the last 30 years the Mugabe regime has made Zimbabwe bankrupt and turned it into a humanitarian disaster.
The past decade in Zimbabwe has been characterised by the systematic and deliberate impoverishment of most of Zimbabwe's 12 million people.
Of course Farai Maguwu, who was exercising his fundamental right to free speech, should be released from detention immediately. (PL) Madam President, decisions made in 2000, and then approved by the governments of interested states and the international diamond industry in 2003 in Kimberly, were motivated by the worthy idea of ending the trade in blood diamonds.
We believe that further engagement with Zimbabwe in the framework of the Kimberley Process offers the best chance, not only to ensure technical compliance in the Marangwe mining area with the Kimberley Process, but also to enhance governance in this critical sector of the economy and ultimately to improve the human rights situation in Marangwe.
Finally, it is important that Parliament is informed that, at a meeting with Zimbabwean Ministers representing the Government of National Unity on 2 July, Baroness Ashton, the High Representative and Vice-President, recalled that the implementation of the global political agreement, which addresses our concern about human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles, is key to achieving normalisation of relations with the EU.
The EU is invited to the closed session of major stakeholders called by the Chair of the Kimberley Process at the margins of the meeting of the World Diamond Council on 14 July in St Petersburg, where we will advance further discussions on that issue.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I join the voices calling for the release of Farai Maguwu.
Farai Maguwu must be released from prison immediately.
