Pakistan: murder of the Governor of Punjab, Salmaan Taseer The next item is the debate on the seven motions for resolutions on Pakistan.
These are leading to a climate of fear and intolerance and, in the worst cases, extremism.
The fight against extremism is not an easy task, which is why the Pakistani Government and all those citizens who agree that intolerance and extremism are unacceptable need our support.
His daughter, Shehrbano, wrote a letter which was published in The New York Times, from which I would like to quote, because I think she gets to the essence and it is very good to use her words in memory of her father.
Salmaan Taseer was governor of the country's wealthiest and most populous province, and was also an important politician in the ruling party.
He died because he had the moral strength and the courage to demand the release of the Christian woman Asia Bibi, who has been sentenced to death for blasphemy.
I personally knew Benazir Bhutto, and Minister Shahbaz Bhatti has become a good friend of mine.
The government has also formed a committee to review all discriminatory laws, including the blasphemy law.
Mr President, exactly eight months ago, on 20 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on religious freedom in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Today, this subject has returned to our Chamber again, as a result of the religiously motivated sentence of death handed down to 45 year old Asia Bibi and the murder of the Governor of Punjab, Salmaan Taseer, who had spoken out publicly in her defence.
The murder of Mr Taseer shows how delicate a situation we face.
Public support for amendment of the Pakistan Penal Code and, in particular, of Section 295 C, which prescribes capital punishment for blasphemy, can also involve the risk of death.
Today, the European Parliament is not interfering in Pakistan's internal affairs, but is only calling attention to Article 20 of Pakistan's 1973 Constitution and the freedom of religion for which it provides.
Mr President, I would like to open this speech by saying that I read with much interest the joint resolution on Pakistan and, in particular, on the assassination of Governor Taseer.
It offers a strange contrast to the resolution which was adopted this morning on Christian minorities.
What we should be equally preoccupied with are all those who fall victim to persecution because of their religious choices, including when they decide to change religion and also when they do not believe in God.
From this perspective, the assassination of the Governor of Punjab, Salmaan Taseer, is a classic example.
This man was murdered because he was a model of tolerance and because he dared to condemn the blasphemy laws in force in his country and the abusive usage of these by certain extremist groups in cases such as that of Asia Bibi, a Christian sentenced to death for blasphemy under the Pakistan Penal Code.
author. - Mr President, I think all of us would want to express our condolences to the family and friends of Salmaan Taseer, the Governor of Punjab put in place by the government of Pakistan, and we are remembering here today his clear support for Asia Bibi - a position he knew to be controversial and indeed dangerous.
We are rightly distressed by his murder and the reaction to it by part of the population of Pakistan, but we should not forget, as well, that many have mourned him and have done that in public as a public act.
We know that the government is struggling, but we also recognise that it needs our support in terms of developing democracy within Pakistan, not least in the political battle against extremism and for universal human rights, and it is our role as democratic parliamentarians to support all those who are working for positive change and to give them the voice that others would deny them.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, we all strongly condemn the brutal murder of the Governor of Punjab on 4 January.
Mr President, the murder of Salmaan Taseer basically reflects the religious intolerance that prevails in Pakistani society.
He had asked the President to pardon Asia Bibi, a Christian woman sentenced to death for blasphemy, and had also visited her in prison.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the murder of Governor Salmaan Taseer is not only a private tragedy but a tragedy for democracy in Pakistan.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, to make a personal statement, I spent a lot of time with Salmaan Taseer when we were both in our twenties.
As has been said, Salmaan strongly supported a Christian lady who had been sentenced under blasphemy laws.
I came here today, first and foremost, to express my profound sorrow, but I must also express my concern - all our concern - for Pakistan. (DE) Mr President, the violent death of the Governor of Punjab, Salmaan Taseer, who was always a proponent of religious tolerance, brings the strengthening of extremist forces to the eyes of the world.
Our resolution should help to ensure that there is nevertheless a different course of events, and that even in this situation, the Pakistani Government can still find the strength to go down the road of bolstering human rights and opposing religious fanaticism.
Not only in Pakistan would there be a need for leaders like the late Salmaan Taseer.
Moderate Muslims and all government authorities have also suffered a great loss and that should be fully recognised by everybody. (FI) Mr President, freedom of religion is one of the fundamental human rights.
The Blasphemy Law goes back to the times of the military dictatorship that was in power in Pakistan in the 1980s.
We in this Parliament have long called for the reform or scrapping of these wretched blasphemy laws, which are invoked frequently against Pakistan's religious minorities.
This assassination underlines the growing radicalisation of Pakistani society.
I can empathise and sympathise with the family in particular, because only a week ago, we had a similar experience in difference circumstances, where a beautiful 27-year-old girl from Ireland on her honeymoon in Mauritius was killed in her own bedroom when she walked in on staff who were robbing her room.
Pakistani laws on blasphemy make it possible to persecute religious minorities with the threat of the death penalty, as has happened to Asia Bibi, a mother of five children who is awaiting her punishment in prison.
We cannot today tolerate - in the third millennium - brutal behaviour from the middle ages perpetrated by oppressors in an abuse of religion. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must point out that the situation in Pakistan is quite unsettling not only in this case, but also in general.
For this reason, I ask the European Parliament that we assure Pakistan of our support, so that the situation can come to a satisfactory conclusion as soon as possible. (RO) Mr President, the assassination of Governor Salmaan Taseer, a dedicated voice for tolerance and the rights of minorities in Pakistan, shows a human rights violation on a dramatic scale.
Salmaan Taseer paid with his life in the defence not only of religious freedom, but also of the life and freedom of others.
We must support the moderate and progressive elements in countries like Pakistan, but above all, we must assert that Sharia law and Islamic fundamentalism have no place in a modern, Western, liberal democracy. (RO) Mr President, firstly, I would like to say that, for my part, I condemn the brutal assassination of the Governor of Punjab province.
The case of Asia Bibi that actually culminated in the murder of Governor Taseer is symbolic in this regard.
I would like, therefore, to reiterate the call to the voices of reason in Pakistan that was initiated by the daughter of Punjab's deceased Governor, Shehrbano Taseer. (SK) Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy with the citizens of Pakistan and my sorrow over the loss of such an important political figure as Salmaan Taseer.
I hope that the reform process will go further in the country, and I would therefore like to call on all political forces, including religious institutions, to provide greater support for moderation, tolerance and mutual respect between communities. (DE) Mr President, in many ways, Pakistan is a fragile country.
We in the European Union must enter into dialogue with the political class there in order to promote a recognition that fundamental economic and social change are necessary so that people can be offered prospects that promise them more than the alternatives of extremism and fundamentalism. (DE) Mr President, the most hateful and violent regimes ever known were the anti-religious regimes of the Jacobins, Nazis and Communists in Europe.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this debate is yet more proof that the European Union is shocked by the brutal murder of Mr Salmaan Taseer, Governor of Pakistan's Punjab province, in Islamabad on 4 January.
High Representative Ashton strongly condemned the killing in her statement on 4 January.
It should be noted that on 12 November 2010, High Representative Ashton expressed deep concern over the death sentence given to Mrs Asia Bibi.
The government of Pakistan has a responsibility to protect its citizens, and we count on it to do everything possible to ensure their safety.
We are well aware of the vulnerable situation of persons belonging to religious minorities in Pakistan; this does not just concern Christians but also Hindus, Shias, Ahmadis and others.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I would like to express my deep indignation at the murder of the Governor of the province of Punjab in Pakistan, Salmaan Taseer, on 4 January 2011, for having spoken out against Pakistan's law against blasphemy.
