Granting and withdrawing international protection (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Guillaume, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing international protection (recast) - C7-0248/2009 -.
Indeed, our Parliament will be required on Wednesday to give its verdict on the revised Commission proposal on common procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status.
The vote on this report coincides with the publication, last week, of a UNHCR study on the 44 industrialised nations.
The fact is, such disparities are incompatible with a common asylum system which ought to offer equivalent protection throughout the EU.
As for the safe countries concept, we call for a common European list to be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, as the Court of Justice recommended in 2008.
I am strongly in favour of there being appropriate minimum standards in all Member States.
On behalf of my group, I want to say that Sylvie Guillaume has prepared - in cooperation, as Mrs Hohlmeier said, with all the shadows - a proposal which is both sensitive and effective, and really provides, as the Commissioner said, a cornerstone of the asylum package.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs most sincerely.
I am also convinced that, ultimately, the Member States will benefit from this, but so will the asylum seekers, who will have the chance, in future, to receive a ruling directly at the first instance in a fair and nevertheless rapid application procedure if this is implemented in the way that we envisage it.
I am in favour of that and so is the ALDE Group, and I will be pleased if we get a good result in this regard tomorrow.
Hopefully, our work will shake the Council out of its inertia and trigger productive negotiations, allowing us to fulfil our objective of having a common European asylum system by 2012 and thus taking into consideration the hard work we have all put into this file.
I would like to warmly thank Mrs Guillaume for her excellent work and her conciliatory approach.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the existing directive of 2005 on international protection is to be recast as the Reception Directive for asylum seekers.
The European Parliament must now send out a clear signal that in any event, we support the right to seek asylum and we believe that all asylum seekers deserve a fair and thorough investigation of their applications.
There are a great many good amendments in the proposal, but I would like, in particular, to highlight one amendment which ensures that the needs of particularly vulnerable applicants are taken into account, particularly those of unaccompanied minors.
The clear definition of family members that is proposed will also improve the situation for many minors in particular. (SL) Mr President, I would like to commend the excellent work done by the rapporteur, Mrs Sylvie Guillaume.
It is therefore necessary for the European Union to assume ever more responsibilities in this regard in order to ensure that the asylum system in the European Union operates in future according to principles that must be a matter of course for all of us, namely, uniform standards, fair and just procedures and respect for fundamental rights.
This task is difficult enough, and I hope that we will manage to do it successfully. (SK) Mr President, the draft of the submitted directive on minimum standards for hearings in Member States on the recognition and withdrawal of international protection is based on previous experience of asylum hearing procedures in individual Member States.
The word asylum has rightly lost its glamour in the eyes of the general public.
We must have a fair, efficient and coherent system that is equivalent in all Member States.
With the vote that you will be making tomorrow or on Wednesday and with the Commission's proposals in this, we will be in a good position to try to see if we can find some compromises.
The vote on the report by Mrs Guillaume will take place at noon on Wednesday, 6 April 2011.
