A very significant new feature introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon is that we will not now have two readings of the budget.
This means that both Parliament and the Council will only have single readings.
It is, therefore, both highly exceptional and interesting that it is the European Parliament which is expressing its thoughts first, and that the first opinions on the budget for 2011 come from the European Parliament in the form of this report, and not from the European Commission, as was the case in every 'ordinary' year.
Why else is 2011 so special?
We are, in fact, reaching the wall, the moment when the margins are very small and Parliament's room for manoeuvre, of any kind, is radically reduced.
The margins are very small.
None of these undertakings was provided for in the Multiannual Financial Framework.
I would very much like - and the report of the Committee on Budgets carries this message - the guiding principle of the budget for 2011 to be youth.
I would like to mention some statistics: 21 people between the ages of 15 to 24 are unemployed.
I would like to emphasise that in an era of rapidly advancing technological change, and also of demographic change, we must create a society based on knowledge, with citizens who are able to change their qualifications during their life and professional career, who are given the possibility to make such a change and who also receive the support of the European Union in this process.
The support of the European Union should include programmes of international exchange at an academic level, as well as for practical experience and training, and also at professional level.
This will, at the same time, increase the level of social integration and the flow of knowledge, and will make it possible for the citizens of the European Union to be truly mobile.
The general context is that the circumstances under which the budget for 2011 will be adopted are very challenging because the margin under heading 5 is very limited and because the successful implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon is the priority for all the European institutions.
The development of a medium- and long-term building strategy has been a concern of the Committee on Budgets for a long time, not only as regards the Parliament, but also regarding the other institutions.
Uncertainties as to the size and the shape of the budget for the External Service and the Court decision on pay adaptation make the financial situation in heading 5 even more unpredictable.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am in a listening mood this evening.
I am listening to Parliament's priorities for 2011, just as I was listening to the guidelines the Council accepted on 16 March.
Here I am referring to heading 1a and heading 4.
Our conclusions should be presented in the framework of a report on the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement which will be issued on the same date as the draft budget, 27 April, and sent to Parliament.
In other words, the report on priorities is clearly upgrading heading 3.
We are to adopt the draft budget in the college on 27 April and, as is the custom, present it immediately on the same day to the members of the Committee on Budgets in Parliament.
Mr President, Mr Lewandowski, in the economic crisis, the EU budget, too, inevitably comes under pressure; this is only natural.
Brussels, too, must watch how it spends every public euro.
I welcome the fact that we can deem the 2011 budget the 'youth' budget.
We would stress once again that excellence in lawmaking should be Parliament's main priority, and that our institution must have at its disposal all the resources necessary for this to be achieved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget guidelines are the first step towards the next European budget, a very definite step.
However, the 2020 strategy is also a main priority: tackling unemployment, climate change and, above all, the need to genuinely and practically implement this new strategy for the future, allocating sufficient resources to it, without compromises and without cuts.
However, these guidelines are also a very realistic first step.
These include sufficient resources, clear-cut implementation of future strategies, above all, the 2020 strategy, and lastly a definitive solution for a flexible instrument that - alone - can enable us to face future challenges.
There is also the question of whether this money will be used or not.
In the agriculture budget in 2009, payments were EUR 2 billion less for rural development than in 2008.
If we look at heading 1a concerning the Seventh Programme for R&amp;D, payments in 2009 were significantly smaller than in 2008.
Mr President, the motion for a European Parliament resolution on priorities for the 2011 budget contains a paragraph which reminds us that the financing of priorities must not be detrimental to fundamental areas of European Union policy, such as cohesion or structural policies or the common agricultural policy.
In itself, this choice of priority is something to be welcomed.
One proposal, for example, is the creation of an Erasmus first job programme.
The most pertinent issue in 2011 will still be the unemployment that is rampant in the EU.
This should provide a challenge for the European budget, but the 2011 budget is being held hostage by a financial framework which has been agreed for seven years, and which has not been altered, despite the crisis.
The 2020 strategy also focuses on innovation.
We seek to eliminate these differences, or at least to shrink them.
The Committee on Budgets tried to balance the need to recognise our responsibilities following Lisbon with the need to keep increased spending as low as possible and that is particularly important with margins and public finances being so tight.
I am sure all Members will take that point on board.
I and the Committee on Budgets believe that any changes to that 20% should be the subject of a discussion between the Committee on Budgets and the Bureau and eventually between all the different institutions.
Only then will we begin to talk about our priorities and only then will we have the proper discussion to achieve the balance between functioning as a Parliament and keeping our expenditure as low as possible. (SV) Mr President, in hard economic times such as these, budgetary issues are difficult and sensitive.
The guidelines for the 2011 budget also include the European Parliament's own budget.
A review of the increased need for resources that Parliament's new powers may give rise to is certainly justified, and we have already received more money for 2010 precisely as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We also need to be able to make our own organisation more efficient and to try to make savings where possible in order, by doing so, to also be able to finance any additional needs.
The intention is surely a good one, but it is interesting, for example, that the MEPs in my group more or less unanimously feel that there is no urgent need for this and that it is not necessary in these economically meagre times.
The guidelines that we are to approve today are good, and I think we should view them as a challenge to examine our own expenditure with a critical eye. (NL) Mr President, we are living in financially and economically difficult times.
Firstly, we MEPs must all be just as accountable for our general expenditure allowance of EUR 4 200 per month as we are for all our other allowances.
This would demonstrate our desire for transparency and our intention not to give ourselves special treatment. (NL) Mr President, the 2011 budget brings us face to face with the priorities of the European Union.
It is not only Member States who must make cuts, then; the EU should also trim down its public funds and spend these in a more targeted manner.
As a rule, social and youth affairs can be handled very well by Member States.
Yet I would draw attention to one issue where EU support is truly indispensable.
I welcome European support for such Member State initiatives wholeheartedly, for example, within the framework of the Structural Funds.
I believe that this is a good thing, because in this way, the Commissioner can listen to Parliament's budgetary priorities before drawing up the draft budget.
The things the Commissioner is hearing or will be hearing today are very different to those he undoubtedly hears every day from the various general sides that put pressure on him to let them have a bigger budget.
Secondly, with regard to the Europe 2020 strategy: our strategy requires the Union to also invest in and improve the implementation of the strategy.
Among other things, we need to send a clear message to the Member States and the Council that it will be necessary to review the budget ceilings for the next three years, particularly in heading 1 of the budget, which is the heading dealing with growth and employment.
In all other respects, however, we need to look for ways to make savings and increase efficiency.
This is particularly relevant, as heading 5 of the budget, for administration, is severely stretched.
It is ridiculous that you maintain so-called information offices in every Member State, at an annual cost of 40 million, when it is the job of 736 MEPs to answer any questions their constituents may have.
It is a continuing scandal that this Parliament has not demanded that Member State governments stop the Strasbourg circus once and for all.
We need to send a clear message to our governments on this and save 200 million a year. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by talking about the Commission's budget.
The European External Action Service is something that I take a particular interest in.
In 2011 - this much is already clear - the areas where we will have the largest expenditure - including for this service - particularly in the administration lines, are the areas where we have the least amount of leeway.
It would be nice if we could acknowledge his existence in the budget, too. (DE) Mr President, we need a different EU and we also need a different EU budget.
I would like to say three things about the EU budget.
It is certain that this year and the next few years will be crucial for the establishment of the final form of the new budget procedure.
Another priority which is presented in the report, and which is deserving of full support, is the need for greater investment in youth, and so in education, which is the foundation of a modern and innovative society.
For the strategy to be successful, greater outlays are needed on cohesion at regional and European level, promotion of employment and combating the effects of the crisis.
Finally, I would like to thank fellow Member, Mrs Jędrzejewska, for a very substantive and innovative preparation of the priorities of the budget for 2012. (PT) Young people, science and innovation are at the heart of the priorities of the next European Union budget.
Of course, the economic situation in the European Union is still not satisfactory, but the report does, in large measure, tell us how to create European added value.
I think maintaining trends related to innovation and the emphasis on digital technology are good examples of the rapid development of the European Union.
I think investing in youth is crucial, and so I would like to express my thanks, and also the thanks of the Committee on Culture and Education, for all efforts whose objective is to support measures relating to investment in young people. (RO) The 2011 budget must take into account the European Union's new powers, as well as the consequences of the economic and financial crisis.
I believe that the European Union must invest in an intelligent and ambitious industrial policy.
It is not acceptable that in 2010, industry accounts for only 14% of GDP in prominent Member States.
We are expecting the Commission to put forward this year a firm proposal for setting up a European fund specifically for developing the transport infrastructure, and the EU's contribution to this will also feature in the 2011 budget. (PT) The economic and social situation in the EU calls for a substantial change to be made in 2011 to the priorities that have guided previous budgets, including the current budget for 2010.
The budget needs to be at the service of policies that are distinct from those that led to 23 million people losing their jobs and put 85 million at the risk of poverty.
The thrust of the amendments that we have tabled to the report is in showing that there is an alternative, and one that is not only possible, but also necessary. (DE) Mr President, I would like to refer to heading 5 and to the buildings strategy in particular.
Even municipal politicians like the Mayor, Freddy Thielemans, admit this. (RO) I urge the European Union's 2011 budget to provide a better reflection of, and support for, youth policy.
However, it is also vitally important to increase the funding for Erasmus Mundus grants.
This will allow even more students and researchers from third countries - and in this case, I am thinking specifically of the Republic of Moldova as well - to study in the European Union.
As a young MEP, I support the Erasmus initiative, which is the first workplace providing young people with access to the labour market.
Job retention and creation should receive most attention.
Financial support measures must be provided in a more flexible manner and must be more accessible if newly established companies or those that have experienced financial difficulties are to survive.
What was clear to me when listening - and I am in a listening mood this evening - was that many speakers stressed that we are shaping the budget for 2011 in the extraordinary environment of post-crisis Europe, with many countries struggling with real fiscal challenges.
What was also clear to me, when listening to your debate, is that Parliament is conscious of room for manoeuvre in the budget being very limited.
Madam President, Mr Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to your speeches, and would like, most of all, to say I am very pleased that the priority related to the main change to the budget for 2010, the priority related to youth, which I proposed and which the Committee on Budgets adopted, has also met with your support and interest.
This means there is all the more reason for the appeal to the European Commission to show ambition, imagination and courage in starting a review and possible revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework.
However, I would like to add that they are not only the future, because the young people are alive here, now, today.
Young people are not only our future, they are our today.
I would also like to say a few words on this extended thinking about the European Union budget.
I very much hope that Mr Lewandowski will listen to everything which has been said, here, and that he has not forgotten that not long ago, he was a Member of this Chamber, and I very much hope that this debate will be reflected in the draft budget which the European Commission has promised to present on 27 April.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - First of all, I wish to recall that, although the EU was able to react collectively to the financial and economic crisis by adopting a European Economic Recovery Plan, the overall economic situation in the EU is still not satisfactory.
I trust that these key issues will be taken into account in an appropriate way during the forthcoming 2011 budget procedure.
The European Union budget for 2011 should give clear support to the main trends in the Community's strategy for the next decade.
I would like to add my comments to those made by the rapporteur and fellow Members during the debates on the priorities for the 2011 budget.
As was also announced by the European Commission in January, ambitious plans are in the pipeline for the Galileo project.
Testing will also start in 2014 on the Safety-of-Life service and commercial service.
In conclusion, I believe that Galileo must receive sufficient funds from the European Union budget in the future so that this ambitious project can become a reality.
The circumstances in which the 2010 and 2011 budgets will be adopted are exceptional and pose a particular challenge.
Parliament must engage in an open discussion about the expenditure ceiling in heading 5 for 2011.
Work on the 2011 budget is under way.
One subject of discussion is that Parliament could make amendments to the financial perspective 2007-2013 in areas such as 'competitiveness and cohesion for growth and employment'.
I would like to draw particular attention to the question of economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is the key to ensuring lasting economic growth in the EU and full integration of Member States.
Article 174 of the Treaty of Lisbon mentions policy with regard to mountain regions as a particular type of regional policy, alongside island and cross-border regions.
The specific economic and spatial problems of mountainous regions require supra-national legal regulations to be put in place governing the objectives and principles of pursuing specific mountain policy in Member States and, more importantly, they require that a suitable level of financing be ensured for projects and programmes for those regions in particular.
I think financial support for mountain regions should be included in the new financial perspective and the Europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - (HU) Next year will be the first year in the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, which can represent a new phase in the development of the European Union.
As a result, the 2011 budget year will be extremely important from the perspective of financial planning for subsequent years.
The budgetary priorities must contain the European Union's response to the challenges of the global crisis.
The Europe 2020 strategy is, from this point of view, a very important factor.
