Effects of the economic crisis on world trade (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Vital Moreira, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the effects of the economic crisis on world trade - B7-0005/2010).
I suggest focusing in my initial reply on the contribution of trade policy to economic recovery.
Where protectionist or trade-restrictive measures are identified, we will take action against them with all available trade tools, such as our market-access strategy or even the WTO dispute-settlement mechanism.
In a globalised world, the EU 2020 strategy should be a vector to promote openness and constructive international economic engagement.
Our European model of society, the combination of a free economy with a high degree of social protection, must be preserved in a sustainable way, and this will take growth.
We should instead work together and think about how we can make Europe more competitive by making it more open.
That would only aggravate the situation in those countries, which already accommodate 70% of the 59 million people in the world who lost their jobs in 2009.
We cannot ignore these developments, which lead the United States to make further use of its trade defence tool or China to take issue with the WTO over European anti-dumping measures.
For example, in countries like Bulgaria, exports for the first 11 months of last year fell by a whole 24% compared to the previous year, and imports by 35%.
The problems presented above are typical of other countries as well.
World Bank researchers predict that, in 2010 alone, 64 million more people will be plunged into extreme poverty by the crisis and that because of it, in 2009, between 30 000 and 50 000 children have already died in Africa of malnutrition.
The document rightly states that the growth of the trade deficit of the European Union and the United States has contributed to the international economic crisis to a large extent.
The trade deficit of the European Union grew from EUR 75 billion in 2004 to EUR 243 billion in 2008.
If you believe the Commission, trade dropped by 10% in 2009.
The ILO itself reckons that 212 million people worldwide were unemployed in 2009, a 34 million increase from 2007.
Sub-Saharan Africa, which had a fiscal surplus of 0.3% of GDP in 2008, had a deficit of 6.4% in 2009.
In other words a surplus of three billion turned into a deficit of 64 billion, taking 67 billion out of Sub-Saharan Africa's spending power.
The Millennium Development Goals need between 34 billion and 45 billion to be met and the banks received a trillion-dollar bail-out.
The EU must shoulder a particular responsibility for maintaining free and fair trade.
The financial crisis is creating a global economic recession that depressed trade by 10% in 2009, as has been stated, such that trade is now at the same level as in 2005.
Globalisation and international trade are fundamentally positive.
We should act in a similar way on many other matters.
If, therefore, we are now asking how to achieve stability or even growth in the volume of global trade, ladies and gentlemen, it can only be through effective measures for halting economic collapse, through measures for stabilising the economy and through the gradual start-up of economic growth.
In order to overcome these problems and encourage entrepreneurship and trade, I think that Europe needs, above all, a strong internal market.
Last but not least in terms of importance, I believe that the internal market would also be strengthened by the prudent and prompt expansion of the euro area, which will result in the economic integration of European states and make the European economy even more influential in relation to its international partners. (ES) Madam President, as the 2009 figures show, and as has already been indicated, the financial crisis which broke out at the beginning of 2008 has considerably reduced trading figures.
However, protectionism further hurts international trade and the EU's interests directly.
I look forward to hearing your answer, Mr De Gucht. (EL) Madam President, my first comment is that the correlations in our trade relations with rapidly emerging countries are not static.
Unfortunately, the fact that President Obama will not be attending the forthcoming summit in Madrid is not an encouraging sign.
We also need to focus our actions on innovative companies, especially SMEs, by relieving them of any excessive administrative and fiscal burdens, and on green technologies and services. (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) We must face up to the fundamental question of whether free trade, the current system controlled by the WTO, is good for the people, or whether we should be contemplating a new guiding principle, which I would rather not call protectionism but economic self-determination?
If this was accepted, it would have cost EUR 2 billion to the European economy and hundreds of jobs across the Union.
The fall in world trade, the rise in unemployment, especially in developing countries and, with this, the growth of poverty and social exclusion - this adverse trend can be stopped by restoring dynamic trade on fair and just (...). (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as commissioner.
It is clear that we must move forward with the Doha development round, because a multilateral approach is the right one.
If we could manage to remove only a fraction of the trade barriers on the transatlantic market, we could do much more for our citizens and, of course, for employees than has been achieved by many of the other measures that we have put far more effort into over the last five years.
Some very specific questions have also been asked, by Mr Jadot, for example, on the meeting on 4 February at the WTO and what the result of this was.
Well, the main message at that meeting was that the rules of the General Agreement on Trade in Services are not an obstacle to the right of countries to ensure effective financial regulation.
So what we should do is become stronger ourselves.
I believe that achieving this transatlantic marketplace, for example, is one of the best answers we can give.
There was also the question by David Martin on the Robin Hood tax.
President Barroso said about the Tobin tax that we are ready to support it as long as everybody else does, and that, of course, is the sticking point in all this.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (HU) The shrinking of world trade has had a particularly detrimental effect on the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as the drop in demand primarily affected products which have played a significant role in exports, such as cars, consumer electronics, and so on.
Research carried out by the Centre of Economic Policy Research has shown that since the first meeting of the Group of Twenty devoted to the crisis, 425 legislative initiatives have been undertaken to combat the effects of the crisis.
