The world is reacting in different ways to events in Belarus.
On 8 June, the US administration took the decision to extend for another year financial sanctions against high-ranking Belarusian officials, including President Alexander Lukashenko.
I feel that this is a response to the undemocratic local elections in Belarus and I would like to hear your assessment.
Member of the Commission. - In the past, we have tried a policy of engagement and we have tried a policy of isolation, and, frankly, none of these policies worked perfectly; nor did they achieve what we wanted in the relationship with Belarus.
It will be shared with the European Council and, of course, with the European Parliament, and I strongly believe that this is the most proper answer to the violations of human rights we witness in Belarus. (PL) Mr Füle, I would like to thank you for this information, but I must raise two issues.
On the other hand, what is very much on my agenda for the talks in Minsk is not only the general issues related to human rights violations, but also the specific questions concerning minorities.
Member of the Commission. - I want to thank Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou for a very pertinent question - or rather a set of questions - because the image and credibility of the euro is an issue of major concern for all of us Europeans at this critical juncture and these difficult times.
The euro is not only a monetary arrangement; it is also a core political project - if not the core political project - of the European Union.
Just today, we presented a total of 15 excessive deficit procedures, and on the basis of our assessment, our Member States' strategies of fiscal consolidation are in line with this coordinated and differentiated fiscal exit strategy.
Finally, reinforcing economic governance is absolutely essential in order to reinforce the credibility of the euro and I do indeed count on your support when you vote on the resolution on Europe 2020 and on reinforcing economic governance.
We need your support in order to convince the European Council - convince the Member States - and keep up the momentum so that we can have these more rigorous systems of budgetary and economic surveillance and policy coordination in place by the beginning of next year. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for your reply and for giving us all a chance to remember the policy to support the single currency and the survival of the euro area.
For instance, in the first half of 2010 - I will just give you the highlights - we carried out an information campaign on the key benefits of the euro in 10 euro area countries: Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands, Spain, Austria, Finland, Malta and Belgium.
Member of the Commission. - The reason why Estonia has had to enforce budgetary discipline is not primarily the euro, but the fact that Estonia's economy faced a very serious financial crisis, like all of us, and economic growth stalled.
Estonia's debt level is very low: 7.2% for the moment, while the European average is 75%, but the gradient was very worrying and it was only common sense in economic terms to ensure that Estonia will be able to continue its stability-oriented policies and ensure the sustainability of its public finances.
The use of European Union funding to maintain the institutionalisation of people with disabilities'.
Vice-President of the Commission. - If there is a misuse of structural funds in general, the Commission can intervene, but there is, of course, the primary obligation and responsibility of the Member State in order to bring forward their policy agenda and organise their own social protection systems, including those people in long-term care institutions.
Nevertheless, even if we cannot veto, we have already been working together with Member States in order to change the policy in the Member States.
For instance, with the Bulgarian Government, we have, for two years, had a cooperative approach under which the government did not use the money in residential institutions, but undertook that no EU funds would be spent on investing in existing residential institutions and that for any investment in these sectors, the principle of de-institutionalisation would be followed. (HU) First of all, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her answer and for her commitment to the cause of people with disabilities.
On 29 April 2010, DG Regio held a seminar for Commission staff called 'Would you call this home?', where best and worst practice in the use of EU funds for dismantling long-stay institutions were presented, so that our staff could understand which policies need to be applied in trying to change the mentality in their contacts with the administrations in the Member States.
Vice-President of the Commission. - It is very clear that in the area of social policy, the Member States are responsible for organising their own social protection systems, including the design, financing and quality control of services provided in long-term care institutions.
For the CITES Conference of Parties, the EU position on many issues had been established more than six months before the meeting, outreach activities have been undertaken by EU and Member State delegations all around the world on important EU proposals on sharks and tigers, and internal EU discussions before and during the CoP on those topics ran smoothly.
Member of the Commission. - In answer to the specific question you asked: I have not had a meeting with Catherine Ashton on that issue.
In particular, at the end of 2009, the Danish authorities published the results from a number of studies that examined the cumulative impact of different endocrine-disrupting substances on sensitive groups such as young children and female workers, as you mentioned in your question.
By early 2012 at the latest, the Commission will, on the basis of the study and the associated consultation process, finalise a report assessing how and whether relevant existing Community legislation, including REACH, adequately addresses risks from exposure to multiple chemicals from different sources and pathways and, on this basis, it will consider appropriate modifications, guidelines and assessment methods.
So, should the Commission not present proposals now for revising REACH and perhaps also other types of legislation in order to stipulate that cocktail effects must be taken into account in the authorisation process on the basis of the substitution principle?
Member of the Commission. - Mr Kelly, the Floods Directive was adopted in 2007 and the process of implementation is under way.
Importantly, the public and interested parties need to be consulted on these plans, and Member States need to cooperate in transboundary waterways.
As regards the notification by the Member States to the Commission of administrative arrangements, the deadline expires on 26 June of this year.
We furthermore welcome the fact that Ireland has already undertaken pilot exercises in the Dodder catchment in the Dublin area as well as in the Lee catchment in the south of Ireland - where a draft catchment flood risk management plan was prepared and submitted to public consultation.
The European Union Solidarity Fund has very clear guidelines concerning implementation and the nature of the damage.
I am not yet in a position to give you a date for the Commission's proposal, but my intention is clearly to present this proposal during my mandate, better sooner than later, though of course, there is still some quite serious work to be done before then. (LT) This problem is important for Member States, important in the sense of projects being carried out locally in Member States and important in terms of international projects, an example of which would probably be energy infrastructure projects, like the Nordstream project in the Baltic Sea.
As we speak, President José Barroso is speaking to my group and, since leaving that discussion three quarters of an hour ago, I have been sitting here for 45 minutes waiting for my turn.
As I said, in all chambers, in all countries, Question Time runs out of time - and we have run out of time.
