Online gambling in relation to recent ECJ rulings (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on online gambling in relation to recent ECJ rulings, by Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab, Evelyne Gebhardt, Cristian Silviu Buşoi and Heide Rühle, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection - B7-0235/2009).
author. - Mr President, first of all it is a privilege on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection to welcome our new Commissioner Michel Barnier for the first time to what I am sure will be many interchanges across the floor of this House, and particularly because he has moved seamlessly from his seat over there to his seat at the front in two days.
As you all know, the Member States have also been meeting together regularly at Council level on various reflection groups about how to tackle the issue about the growth of online gambling in relation to our own countries' gambling activities.
I think I should make it clear first of all that this question does not in any way presuppose a new liberalisation of gambling markets or indeed not necessarily any new initiative in that direction.
Finally, I think we must also respect our citizens and the fact that many of them do want to access online gambling.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine the great pleasure it gives me to return here just 48 hours after the investiture of the College - for which I thank you - and to continue my work with you, Mr Harbour - and I say this in particular to the members of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection - in a different manner, and most likely in a different place, but in the same spirit.
The Commission will continue to work with all Member States concerned to resolve the problems identified in these infringement procedures.
In general, these procedures remain open, but it is for the new Commission to decide how to proceed with these questions.
The second point, Mr Harbour, is the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Portuguese case, where a long-established state monopoly exercises strict control over gambling.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start a constructive debate on this question with the European Parliament, but also with the Member States and the parties concerned.
I know that on the initiative of Mrs Schaldemose, Parliament adopted a report on 10 March, even though a number of Members supported an opposing resolution.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would like to say how pleased I am that you, Commissioner, have just made it clear that you wish, not only to consider a targeted analysis of the case-law in the Liga Portuguesa case, but also to raise the issue of how the Council working group might respond appropriately to the increase in online gambling.
In the context of this oral question, of course, we are concentrating only on online gambling.
Member States claim that, when it comes to online gambling (and this applies to the Liga Portuguesa and Santa Casa cases, as well), they are capable of implementing the objectives of consumer protection and efficiently tackling any attendant crime on their own, without any European involvement.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for the information you have given us but, to be honest, I am not entirely satisfied.
The previous Commission set itself the quite clear objective of liberalising the gambling market.
The European Parliament has made it clear, time and again, that this cannot be the right approach, because it was the European Parliament, rather than Member States, that, for example, removed gambling from the scope of the Services Directive.
In response to your point, Mr Harbour, I would argue that the rulings of the European Court of Justice have been very consistent and not at all contradictory.
However, this also means that we have to pay particular attention to online gambling, because the Internet does not recognise any barriers or borders and, of course, because our citizens have access to gambling sites.
Now, as before, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe endorses the principles concerning the integrity of online gambling contained in Parliament's resolution of 10 March 2009.
In accordance with a ruling of the European Court of Justice, each Member State is free, under certain conditions, to regulate online gambling itself and the resolution of 10 March stresses that emphatically.
We cannot regulate everything according to the internal market concept and particularly not the prevention of underage gambling or gambling addiction.
It is essential in this context that Member States really do fulfil their tasks.
If we in the European Parliament can agree that Member States have the right, under the principle of subsidiarity, to regulate their gambling markets according to their own traditions and cultures, we also then have to ensure that this is actually happening, through efficient control and market surveillance.
I might say that monopolies - or they might say I should say - that monopolies are better at controlling and treating the problem of gambling which has been discussed this morning.
For young people, in particular, it constitutes a real threat.
However, online gambling - often cross-border in nature - has made it all the more accessible once again.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (SK) As regards the issue of online gambling, I would like to mention two areas in which I see several unresolved problems.
In Point 16 of its resolution of 10 March 2009, the European Parliament states that it is parents who bear the responsibility for protecting underage children from online gambling.
It increases the risk of addiction, especially for young people.
The European Court of Justice, in view of the public interest, acknowledged the right of governments to ban or to restrict online gambling.
Effective controls are no longer possible without an agreement on common rules for all 27 Member States.
I am actually very pleased to be standing here today debating online gambling with you, because during your hearing in Parliament you placed particular emphasis on your view that the internal market should be there for the citizens and not the other way round.
What we need in the area of online gambling is, of course, to find out how we can protect our citizens, investigate the social costs of gambling, and so on.
That is what I would have liked to have a very clear answer on. (GA) Mr President, I welcome this timely debate on online gambling and in particular, on the problems relating to underage gambling and vulnerable consumers.
Clear direction is needed at all levels in order to tackle this issue so that definitive steps can be taken to tackle the problem of under-age gamblers and to ensure the interests of the most vulnerable consumers are protected. (NL) Mr President, there are approximately 120 000 gambling addicts in the Netherlands, which represents nearly 1% of our population.
Mr President, what is striking is that some Member States have a completely legal gambling market.
Mr President, the European Parliament must issue a very strong call to those Member States in which gambling is permitted to strongly discourage that market wherever possible. (EL) Mr President, the question indirectly calls for new Community legislation.
However, given that even the European Court of Justice has laid down the limits and preconditions under which the Member States, through their national legislation, can stipulate how online gambling is to be regulated, there is no need to call for European legislation.
It is precisely on these grounds of public interest that this sector should remain under the control of the Member States, which know more about its peculiarities and how to handle them.
This report concludes that an approach solely within the framework of the internal market is not appropriate in this highly sensitive sector and calls on the Commission to pay particular attention to the views of the European Court of Justice on this matter. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the European Court of Justice ruling, because the possibility for a Member State to prohibit private operators from offering online gambling services highlights the need to standardise a market that is highly profitable, but just as highly risky, for consumers.
Therefore, in the absence of any European harmonisation of gambling activities, each country is free to choose its own level of protection.
It is necessary, therefore, to go beyond individual economic interests and to ensure a significant level of protection of consumers, and in particular of children, who are the main victims of crime and fraud in such cases. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a conflict between two policies that are dear to the European Union: the protection of consumers and public order on the one hand, and the freedom of movement and provision of services on the other.
Commissioner Barnier, we look forward to the new Commission, which is now taking office, dealing with this matter as a priority on its agenda. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, gambling has traditionally been strictly regulated in most countries of the EU.
We cannot accept such a situation, never mind the social, health and safety risks associated with online gambling, or the related tax issues. (FI) Mr President, as you well remember, Commissioner Barnier, the European Parliament was being consistent in its policy when it opposed the inclusion of gambling games in the Services Directive, as gambling games are not services as such: they are associated with the risk of addiction and the social costs that go with it.
The more unregulated gambling is, the more sport just becomes a means of accumulating profits and the more it becomes prone, for example, to criminal activity in the form of money laundering.
Nevertheless, it is not right that these cases should only make progress in the form of court decisions or as a result of infringement proceedings.
One is called the Diagnostic Statistical Severity Index and the other, the Canadian Problem Gambling Severity Index.
When you think about it, if this green paper is coming forward, I would like to see the Commission getting some proper statistics - a study in fact on the effects of gambling and online gambling on EU citizens.
I think this would be a very useful piece of information to inform our debate and to have at our fingertips.
Mr President, I want to add my congratulations to Commissioner Barnier.
It also very clearly states that 'online gambling operators must comply with the legislation of Member States in which they provide their service', and that 'a pure internal market approach is not appropriate in this highly sensitive area'.
The problem for us as legislators, and for Member States, is that the market is way ahead of us: developments in this area have overtaken existing legislation and will continue to do so.
Whether we like it or not, people enjoy gambling.
So there is no clarity on this issue but, once again, the problem for the European Parliament, for the EU in general, is that there is no consistency across Member States, and yet our citizens are accessing services outside their own country, and they want to do that.
If there were the same number of people proportionately at EU level, it would mean that there would now be more than 35 million in Europe with a gambling problem, and that is a huge figure.
I therefore think that Member States must in future have the right to decide themselves how they organise gambling in order to minimise any potential psychological and financial damage.
I regret that the question put by myself and a further 42 MEPs has not yet been referred to Parliament in plenary because of opposition from the left.
I therefore wonder how much interest the Commission really takes in those who have a proven problem with drug addiction or another proven addiction, and how important a role the fight against drug trafficking plays in the Commission's programme. (EL) Madam President, the reason why we feel secure in Europe, the reason why Europe has been going for so long is, I think, because it has always respected national sensitivities.
I think that what is needed in this balance is clearly set out in both judgments by the Court which, on the one hand, understands and defends the concept of public interest, as safeguarded by national traditions and, on the other hand, formulates objections to disproportionate measures which ultimately work at the expense of the citizen.
What we are dealing with are questions of education, money laundering, criminality and freedom in gambling.
We are all talking about gambling, but there are many different types of gambling, and there are different definitions.
Member States are free to set their own policy objectives on betting and gambling and define in detail the level of protection they deem appropriate for their citizens.
In 2006 and 2007 they both agreed on the exclusion of gambling and betting from the Services Directive and the Audiovisual Media Services Directive.
In the Schaldemose report I was responsible for the EPP line and I share her view.
Commissioner, I would like to ask you this: do you share the view that the Commission should finally start helping the Member States in their fight against all illegal - in other words unauthorised - gambling offers, rather than consume time on questions that have been answered already?
The dynamically developing gambling market, which is based on cross-border contacts and transactions, needs common and clear regulations, in order to minimise the risk associated with fraud, money laundering, match-fixing and addiction.
The Commission must initiate work on a thorough report analysing everything related to the problem of honesty in gambling and all the legal and social consequences associated with this.
What is needed is a clearly defined European code of practice, which sets the highest standards and will be able to distinguish between what is honest, sporting competition in games and dirty gambling. (RO) The regulation of the gambling market in the European Union is a delicate issue, regardless of whether we are talking about conventional or online gambling.
The online gambling sector has expanded in recent years and is now an area where huge profits are made.
Both the European Union and Member States share common objectives in their efforts to improve the regulation of gambling activities.
With a lack of any harmonised legislation in this area, Member States are free to set their own policy objectives in this area and define the required level of protection.
We must ensure that online gambling is handled in a responsible manner.
We must also prevent addiction and avoid organised crime. (HU) First, a warm welcome to Commissioner Barnier, and I would like to wish him all the best in his efforts.
It has been estimated that, in the UK alone - as Gamblers Anonymous say - there is something in the region of 600 000 people who are addicted to gambling and who are members of Gamblers Anonymous.
I think we have got to look at the ECJ ruling in terms of saying that it is up to each Member State to fix its own rules and regulations.
I think we have got to revert to the excellent recommendations made on 10 March 2009, which are worth looking at again.
Secondly, we need to protect consumers against fraud and there should be a common position to do this.
Mr Panzeri said earlier - and he is right - that we talk a lot here about resolutions and recommendations and they are all very commendable but, at the end of the day, what we need to do is to translate them into action.
With the rapid spread of internet access in our globalised world there has been a significant rise in a new form of addiction, an addiction to online gambling.
Until we establish a common European Union system for the regulation of online gambling, the only people happy to see these figures will be the representatives of the online gambling business.
The European Court of Justice has said that gambling services can take advantage of freedom of movement and that the Member States should regulate these themselves, taking into account their values and traditions.
Lithuania, for example, is still one of those countries of the European Union in which online gambling is banned.
The Internet has no borders, so if we have different online gambling rules and provisions, it will be like the climate change problem; much talk and, sadly, few results. (PL) Madam President, I would like to put a question to the Commission in the context of the questions asked by my colleague, Mr Nitras, who is unable to be present, today, due to problems he has encountered in getting to Strasbourg.
I find this regrettable, as it means we did not dare to recognise that it constitutes a problem for consumers, and I think this was instigated by governments who were only too willing to continue to see it as a monopoly for Member States.
I hope this proves successful, Commissioner Barnier: you have a huge task ahead of you and I wish you the very best of luck.
Perhaps - and this is my final comment, Madam President - it is already quite something for you to hearten Parliament by actually looking closer into the implementation of the Services Directive; after all, I have heard many positive reports in this regard. (DE) Madam President, in case C-42/07, the European Court of Justice examined whether Portugal had infringed EU law by prohibiting online gambling.
The companies affected by this ban, such as BWin and Liga Portuguesa de Futebol Profissional, went to court and fought their cases all the way up to the ECJ.
The main argument was that, in so doing, Portugal had infringed the freedom to provide services and that, ultimately, any entrepreneur should be allowed to provide services across borders.
In terms of its content, however, the freedom to provide services also includes a prohibition on discrimination, which means that the State is not allowed to put foreign service providers in a less favourable position than domestic ones.
In Germany alone, 200 000 people have been officially categorised as addicted to gambling, and young people are increasingly falling prey to this addiction.
I hope that this very difficult and polarised situation will be taken into account in the creation of a new regulatory framework and that the Commission will incorporate these key issues that I have raised. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to wish Commissioner Barnier well in his work, because we need some good work to be done.
The ruling concerning the Liga Portuguesa confirms that the European Union is regulated internally by 27 different rules, on the basis of which each State has decided to legislate.
I am against protectionism when it comes to gambling and wish your green paper could in fact solve this problem for everybody's benefit, for the benefit of consumers and national administrations and for the benefit of the principles underlying the European Union. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, here we are dealing with a matter of great importance in the defence of the interests of citizens and in protecting against the risks of fraud that are common in gambling, including online gambling.
The Member States must maintain their autonomy and total legitimacy to legislate in the area of controls on gambling, according to the traditions of their own countries and ensuring a level of protection that is more appropriate for consumers and the interests of citizens, including investments in social areas, as happens in Portugal.
Gambling - and online gambling in particular - is the hidden addiction and, unlike the other major addictions of drug and alcoholic abuse, there are no obvious physical manifestations of the disease.
As we all know, croupiers in casinos receive psychological training in order to spot players with addictive behaviour.
As you have understood - and, I have said so before this Parliament - I begin this new task that President Barroso has entrusted to me with great determination and resolve.
In any case, that is what I shall be proposing to my fellow Commissioners in the coming days.
I am therefore going to endeavour - and this is what Mrs Stihler and Mrs McGuinness have just requested in particular - to ensure that, in addition to clear policy directions, which means not only words but also proposed decisions, the Commission document above all contains as accurate a diagnosis as possible of all these issues.
In its ruling, the European Court of Justice stated that regulation of gambling law is a matter for Member States, and that they are tightening up regulations in this area.
