The CAP towards 2020: Meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Dess, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the CAP towards 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 50 years ago, in 1961, I began my training to be a farmer.
Even if not all of the individual interests could be taken into account in a compromise, the report was adopted with a large majority in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The clear vote is an unambiguous signal to the Commission of the form that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development sees the CAP taking towards 2020.
I am certain, Commissioner, that the new approach of the CAP after 2013 will also bear the stamp of the European Parliament.
The report clearly states - and here we support the Commissioner - that the agricultural budget should remain at the current level in the next financial period.
I cannot understand President Barroso's statement that massive cuts are to be made in the second pillar.
That is also necessary in order to create a level playing field in terms of competition.
The role of small farmers is to be recognised and, on the basis of subsidiarity, the Member States are to decide themselves how to support these small farmers.
From my point of view, it was important to avoid introducing a new additional payment system that would lead to extra control and sanction systems for greening.
Overall, we have found a compromise that many Members will be able to support tomorrow so that we can send out a clear signal as regards the new approach of this agricultural policy.
I am thinking in particular of the question of food security, which is one of agriculture's underlying aims.
Adding a green component to the first pillar in conjunction with a stronger rural development policy is another key objective that will help to tackle climate change and environmental issues, but will also contribute to achieving the Europe 2020 strategy.
Direct payments will continue to play an important role in maintaining regional vitality.
The second pillar of the future common agricultural policy will have to address all these challenges and will also have to consider how technical knowledge can be used to build a future that combines competitiveness and environmental concerns.
Rural development policy must provide a wide range of support measures that will meet their needs.
I would also like to consider what could be done under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy for young farmers.
Thank you once again for this report.
Those who levy this criticism are right, but those calling for a reduction in funding for the common agricultural policy are wrong.
However, if we want to apply serious policy, we should increase funding for our agricultural policy, for a fairer, more effective and more viable common agricultural policy.
The contribution from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is an important one in this context, because we want the same things European citizens do.
We want wholesome food produced in a diverse system, and by diverse I do mean biological diversity, but also diversity in terms of production.
Food security at EU and global level and globalisation necessitate a new and strong common agricultural policy, which will firstly improve our competitiveness on the international market, secondly ensure a fair income for farmers, thirdly ensure that consumers can buy high-quality products at fair prices, fourthly ensure the sustainable development of rural areas and fifthly help to improve the state of the environment.
The CAP should incorporate measures for regulation of and intervention in the agricultural market, and a risk management mechanism.
The new report, which was adopted almost unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, affirms the new direction that we would like the common agricultural policy to take in the coming years.
We too will have to push for this in our debates at EU level.
At a time when there are plans to eliminate Europe's food security programme, we need to remember that food security is still a matter of solidarity and is still extremely topical in Europe: almost 30 million Europeans are currently suffering from malnutrition.
Essentially, this report sets out the broad thrust: the greening of agricultural policy.
Another important point is that this compromise is the result of lengthy negotiations, in which I have always been involved, on the question of graduated support.
Let me conclude by saying that this report and Parliament's commitment are pointless unless the agriculture budget remains at its current level.
That is my response to the comments made by the Commissioner and the President of the Commission on the second pillar.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I think the world-renowned Scottish poet Rabbie Burns might have described this report as a bit of a 'cow'rin, tim'rous beastie' in its original form.
Thankfully, through the good work that Albert Dess and all the other shadow rapporteurs have put in over the last months of negotiations, we now have a report that has some real substance and one that has many areas that we can support.
There is a link to public goods through cross-compliance, but I do not think this fundamentally answers that question.
I believe that the report should perhaps have gone a little further in responding to that question by backing the idea of a more targeted direct payment, containing a major incentive to develop a more sustainable and competitive model of agriculture, and giving the possibility of a targeting of payments at LFA areas - the so-called greening of the direct payments, which I believe the Commissioner is very much favour of.
It also negates the call for caps and ceilings to be put on aids because, if there are public goods attached to the direct payments across all the direct payments, then the bigger the farmer, the more public goods that farmer will deliver.
We have got to be responsible, and we have got to be responsible as a Parliament as we move towards the legal text that the Commissioner will bring forward in the late autumn of this year.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, the report takes us clearly in the right direction.
At the end of the day, European agricultural policy must meet our objectives on climate and diversity.
This, too, is in the report.
Working through nearly 1 300 amendments has been a laborious process, but in the long term we have achieved our aim of reaching a major common compromise with clearly defined objectives.
Rural development, environmental measures and measures for less-favoured regions - there must be a clear emphasis on these.
It is precisely here that the opportunities for rural development lie, and we cannot turn our backs on the less-favoured regions.
We also need far more research funding in Europe.
We are particularly pleased that there is support for small farms, which are fundamental because they are of great importance both for protecting the land and for the quality of the products produced on them.
Clearly, if agriculture is worth less in Europe, then agricultural products and hence all our food is also worth less.
Lastly, Commissioner, I would like to mention the issue of imports.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Dess for a comprehensive report.
Like other speakers, I would like to emphasise the importance of an adequate budget for the new CAP.
I would argue that the new CAP should aid this and keep that production within Europe.
We should not be doing anything to hamper the food production base that we already have.
However, I would have to add that I do not want to see the support for greening in Pillar One imposing further burdens and costs on our farmers.
A new common agricultural policy (CAP) means a lot to Europe for the future of its agriculture and the survival of vast rural areas.
That is why I would like to impress on the Commission the need to include technology transfer measures in rural development.
This House cannot accept a rural development funding cut. (PT) Madam President, with this reform we in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament want to make the common agricultural policy (CAP) fairer, more equitable and more suited to the times in which we live, when the issues of the legitimacy of aid in relation to society and of food safety and food security in the broadest sense are more relevant than ever.
We want a fairer distribution of aid both among Member States and among farmers, through the introduction of a new system not linked to production but based on environmental and social criteria; that is to say, one that promotes employment.
I would like to talk about one aspect of agricultural policy.
In this context, I think that we need to realise that it is farmers who manage our environment and the prerequisites for our lives and our futures on a day-to-day basis.
The most important task for agriculture is, of course, to produce food - sufficient, good-quality food - but my view is that food should be paid for on the market.
Environmental services cannot be paid for there. (PL) Madam President, in many respects the Dess report is very good, but in one respect it is quite the opposite, since it rejects the idea of a fair equalisation of direct payments.
The farmers in the new Member States, and not only the farmers, are extremely worried and alarmed by these developments.
The agricultural sector is in decline, particularly in the new Member States.
We have clearly stated and confirmed that we want to safeguard and develop small farms, that we want small farms to be taken into account because they are essential to quality and regional biodiversity.
I want to find another way of helping our poorest citizens: the 80 million Europeans who do not have enough to eat. (LV) Madam President, a great job has been done, but the completed report is couched in very general terms.
The report clearly outlines a new direction - agricultural greening.
The Dess report takes this direction in connection with the agricultural assistance provided by the European Union.
The CAP should not be measured merely in terms of expenditure because, in addition to the goods and services it provides, I believe it should be made clear - today of all days - that EUR 1 invested in agriculture generates EUR 10 of wealth in the agri-food sector.
Furthermore, it should not be forgotten that negotiations with third countries and with the World Trade Organisation pose a serious threat to the future of agricultural and livestock production in the European Union. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Dess report marks the beginning of a new phase in the common agricultural policy (CAP) reform process.
The latter report introduced the important principle for the CAP of maintaining the current level of funding in the next financial programming period.
Therefore, Commissioner, we would like some clarification about the news that has been circulated, and we would like to know whether as far as you are concerned there are different guidelines from what we have been told up to now. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his persistent and positive work.
I regard such a course of action as discriminatory against Member States such as the Czech Republic, which, for historical reasons, have larger farms than elsewhere in the European Union.
I particularly like the idea of the continuation of direct payments and the explicit removal of the historical reference values in paragraph 15 and the fairer distribution between Member States, and within Member States in the regions and nations within them, in paragraph 16.
While there is much to admire in this report, let us be honest with ourselves and with our voters.
This week's vote will reflect what the European Parliament expects to see in the legislative proposals for the CAP.
The budget vote, which is upcoming, is also extremely important for ensuring appropriate future funding for agriculture.
The CAP reform on which we will vote tomorrow is vital if we are to continue to support the income of our farmers, as my colleagues have already mentioned.
The CAP budget must, at the very least, stay at current levels and similar resources and objectives must be safeguarded for the new CAP.
The proposal for a new farm income stabilisation instrument is a good idea.
Finally, I would highlight the need for effective measures for the benefit of young farmers.
I think that this is the cross-party message of this House and serious account needs to be taken of it. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur and I am pleased that the report bears unmistakably socialist, social democratic hallmarks.
We want a sustainable, ecological and social agricultural policy.
We want greening and we want it in the first pillar.
Our primary objective must be to ensure high-quality and sustainable food production in Europe and for our rural areas to be active and vital.
We must continue to work for a strong second pillar in the common agricultural policy (CAP), for rural areas and for Europe.
We have to get back to the real priorities of the common agricultural policy.
We cannot impose additional constraints on our farms, which are facing increasing global competition, and at the same time reduce their support.
That will benefit everyone in rural areas.
Our future agricultural policy will decide whether or not Europe is self-sufficient in the future. (ES) Madam President, this afternoon's debate clearly reveals that this House supports and is indeed set on achieving a strong common agricultural policy that can rise to the challenges of food safety, environmental sustainability and employment in rural areas.
If this is to be attained, we cannot allow - as, hopefully, will be upheld by this House - any cuts to the current CAP budget.
This move will be institutionalising inefficiency and there is no justification for it. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as you have all done already, we must warmly thank our rapporteur for the commitment he has put into this report and also for his stamina in achieving these compromises.
However, we are also producing a cultural landscape that can be seen, that provides recreational spaces for you all, for all of us, for our society, that provides jobs not just in agriculture but also in tourism and in many other areas.
However, this must not result in those countries and those farmers which already have very ambitious environmental programmes in the second pillar being discriminated against by this new approach.
Environmental programmes are expensive.
We also need - and have spoken out in favour of this - a strong second pillar.
We will support you, Commissioner, in these efforts. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, Parliament, the Commission and the Council all agree in that the budget of the CAP should be appropriate and should be maintained at least at the current level.
It is important to keep the two-pillar structure, to maintain direct payments and especially the strong rural development policy, and to improve competitiveness and strengthen environmental awareness.
It is important to provide equal competitive conditions and equal opportunities for the new Member States from 2014.
As for young farmers, support measures and incentives have been introduced to help and encourage them to set up farms.
Essentially, we have all the ingredients needed to allow the Commission and Parliament to work together on defining the new common agricultural, food and environmental policies that we so urgently need. (RO) Madam President, we need a strong agricultural sector, guaranteed by a common agricultural policy, which will have a sufficient budget, capable of ensuring food security in Europe.
Paragraph 16 blatantly contradicts the fundamental principle of equal conditions for competition on the single market.
Some would be given EUR 200-250 per hectare, others EUR 350 or over EUR 400, and we are not just talking about a division into old and new Member States, since farmers from Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Austria, Finland and Sweden would also receive the lower rates.
Possible market fluctuations must be tackled with counter-cyclical measures, which should be included in the first pillar and be capable of responding swiftly and automatically. (PT) Madam President, this report does not address the future challenges mentioned in its title, but more importantly it does not address the serious problems of the present.
I would like to highlight here the ones advocating market regulation measures and intervention mechanisms to guarantee farmers fair prices for their produce, and every country's right to produce.
The report recognises that the agricultural sector must continue to be supported by government price intervention, because quantities produced cannot be predicted or planned precisely and demand for agricultural products is low in price elasticity.
That is important to ensure food security and avoid price volatility.
The most important thing from our point of view is that the UK must cease to be a net contributor to the cost of the CAP. (PT) Madam President, the long process of work that this important report required, including the many compromises reached, have made it a broad-based, well-balanced record of the various interests that the common agricultural policy (CAP) has to address.
I must also mention the need to place the much-abused dairy sector on the CAP political agenda by adopting Amendments 16, 12 and 5. (PL) Madam President, the aim of the common agricultural policy is to guarantee continuity in the supply of food to Europe's citizens.
Direct payments should be paid according to a simple method and on an equal basis, to all farmers in all Member States.
Let us not forget that direct payments account for only part of farmers' income.
We must ensure access to public services such as education, health services, transport services, sport and culture for citizens of rural areas.
Commissioner, let us keep in place a programme which enables us to supply food to Europe's poorest citizens. (RO) Madam President, food security is one of the challenges of the future.
The CAP must respond to this challenge.
The new policy must continue with the positive features of the current policy and rectify the errors.
I believe that this is what the Dess report does.
Two pillars are being proposed: direct payments and rural development.
A strong rural development component is being retained and a request is being made for the amount of funding in the budget after 2014 to be at least equivalent to the 2013 level.
I am pleased that Parliament's first report drafted after the Commission communication features very many guiding principles in common with the latter document. (ES) Madam President, the most important message issued by this House today is that it wants a fair common agricultural policy, or in other words a CAP that guarantees a sufficient level of income for all producers, irrespective of their activity and of the place where it is conducted.
I wanted to make that point. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this own-initiative report because the CAP is a fundamentally important tool for European agriculture and for the protection of EU producers and products as compared with non-European producers and products.
One of the objectives of the new CAP must be to integrate new farmers, particularly young farmers, with targeted budget headings, and to reduce burdens and bureaucracy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Dess report represents a major step towards reform of the common agricultural policy.
We have many discussions on how funds are distributed between the Member States, but we also need to discuss how they are allocated within Member States.
Where less favoured areas are concerned, Commissioner, 12 months ago this House delivered a report on the redefinition of these, in which we were highly critical.
Mr President, after over an hour spent debating the report by Mr Dess, I remain very optimistic, not only about tomorrow's vote and the support for a report which, as I said in my introductory remarks, is very similar to the proposals contained in the Commission communication from the end of last year, but also about our future common agricultural policy.
In fact, I do not see how agriculture could be competitive in the medium and long term without careful management of natural resources.
That is why we want to find a balance within the CAP, rather than pitting food concerns against environmental issues.
It feeds more than 500 million people, farms and looks after more than 170 million hectares of arable land and pasture, it provides many jobs in areas upstream and downstream, is an important buttress of rural areas and is already the most sustainable agricultural sector in the world.
I therefore cannot understand why President Barroso has spoken of huge cuts in the second pillar.
When 14 million farmers are feeding 500 million people, is it too much to ask that European agricultural policy be used to ensure that the 500 million people also provide properly for the 14 million farmers, so to speak?
The result I wanted to achieve was for us to send a signal as Parliament that we are addressing the important aspects that are necessary if European farmers are to have a good future.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 June 2011.
We have successfully pushed to change subsidies, so that 80% of subsidies no longer benefit just 20% of the largest farmers, and in this way we have helped small farmers.
With regard to milk quotas, we have to check whether or not it is in fact a good idea to continue to implement a decision made eight years ago, on the basis of forecasts.
This point is extremely important for the Azores in view of the fact that the sector plays a strategic role and quotas have been very important to milk producers until now.
We are all aware of the potential and crucial role the common agricultural policy has in achieving environmental and climate targets, in providing public goods and also in attaining the EU's food security targets.
However, it is extremely important that, when we talk about agriculture and the future of the CAP, 'simplification' and 'innovation' are the watchwords.
The common agricultural policy must become fairer and simpler.
The CAP post-2014, as outlined in this report, has clear aims and priorities, on which European farmers can and will deliver - but they need the support of a credible budget behind them.
The new version of the common agricultural policy includes values such as consumer protection and regional cohesion.
I think that long-term productivity depends, to a large extent, on the sustainable management of natural resources, which is another objective on the agenda.
Food security is another priority in the new common agricultural policy.
Cooperation between Member States is essential, as demonstrated during the E.
in writing. - As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and a committed environmental campaigner, I expected a Dess report which would represent a CAP for the carbon era - one based upon environmental incentives, resource management, and a strong investment in the wider environmental issues facing the EU.
in writing. - (RO) The common agricultural policy is faced with a number of challenges calling for the European Union and Member States to make a strategic decision about the future of agriculture.
To be able to tackle these challenges effectively, the CAP must operate in an environment of sound economic policies and sustainable public funding which will help the Union achieve its EU 2020 strategy objectives.
I think that the European Union also needs to have in the future adequate instruments for tackling the crises affecting the market and food supply, as well as the fluctuations in the prices and market in the agricultural sector.
I think that CAP funds need to be shared fairly for the first and second pillars, both among Member States and among farmers within a Member State.
This will tangibly reduce the great disparities in how these funds are shared among Member States.
I think that particular attention should be focused on motivating and encouraging young farmers.
Consequently, I am in favour of introducing in this pillar targeted measures which will be defined by Member States, with the aim of achieving the EU's priority targets so that compensation payments are maintained for the disadvantaged areas in the second pillar.
We in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament have worked hard to ensure that the new EU agricultural policy is oriented towards ecological standards.
By linking the direct payment to an economic variable we can achieve the transition from a Europe of 15 Member States to a Europe of 27 without offending anyone too much.
The report is a good compromise; it is a European compromise.
The question now is what the Commission, and particularly President Barroso, will make of it.
We therefore take a critical stance, and we have put forward alternative proposals that respond effectively both to the need for agricultural production to ensure food sovereignty and food security in every country, and to the problems of family farming and rural development.
These proposals all take into account the social importance of the land and of the people who work it, the specific characteristics of each country and social justice in the distribution of grants, both among Member States and among crops and farmers.
That is why we have put forward this set of proposals, in which in particular we clearly and unequivocally advocate the system of production quotas adapted to each Member State according to its food requirements, thus ensuring that farmers in countries such as Portugal are protected.
Europe will need a strong agriculture even after 2013, because the principal means of guaranteeing European citizens' food security is European agriculture.
The milk crisis made it clear that measures to restrict production are needed in the milk sector.
in writing. - (FI) This report was a victory for the advocates of Finnish and European agriculture.
Food security is and will remain the main challenge facing EU agriculture.
I think that we must focus particular attention on the demographic challenges affecting the countryside in particular.
In addition to all these measures, there is also a need for better coordination between the financial support allocated to rural development and the other regional policies and for the maintenance of CAP funding at a level ensuring that all the proposed tasks can be achieved.
This will enable us to facilitate more active economic, social and cultural involvement from young people in European Union agriculture.
The European Parliament must stand up for a strong, fair and well-financed CAP.
I also welcome the measures proposed for maintaining territorial balance in the EU.
I am pleased that support is expressed in the report for young people in the agricultural sector because we must combat depopulation of rural areas.
It is important that we maintain support for disadvantaged regions and the opportunity for production-related payments in the regions where there is no alternative to a particular production type.
The situation in agricultural sectors differs in the various Member States.
Let us send a strong signal to the European Commission and Europe's agricultural producers, showing our support for a fairer, simpler and more flexible CAP.
in writing. - (DE) A healthy farming sector - and I am not talking here about agro-industrial factories, but rather about small-scale family farms - provides a guarantee of the continued existence of rural culture, nature and our cultural landscape, as well as being essential to securing the supply of food for our population.
The EU needs to act here - and I speak as a representative of Austria, the leading country in organic farming.
in writing. - (FI) The reform of the EU's common agricultural policy is one of this Parliament's most important tasks.
I am delighted to learn that the new common agricultural policy will end the period of discrimination against farmers in certain Member States, including my own.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, which is clearly the work of an author who understands the issues involved.
The capping of direct payments is a new form of discrimination against Member States in which, for historical reasons, most of the agricultural undertakings manage larger areas of land.
The discrimination against large undertakings resulting from capping may put jobs in rural areas at risk, and stifle innovative potential.
If we want to talk credibly about a single market, can we really countenance discrimination against certain Member States in the form of differences in payments per hectare or capping?
Farmers from the 12 new Member States have now reached the end of a difficult 10-year period, which they agreed to on the understanding that it was a transitional period which would not be extended.
I would therefore like to call on all fellow Members to support Amendments 10 and 11, which reject the capping of payments.
The report on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) is heading in this direction.
Many of the negotiated compromises should be welcomed unequivocally, for example the simplification of administrative procedures in various areas of the CAP, or the continuation of full funding for direct payments in the EU budget and the refusal to renationalise these.
I wish to express my satisfaction with this first text on the future of the CAP.
This means maintaining an ambitious common agricultural policy that can satisfy our most basic long-term need: food.
