Equality between women and men in the European Union - 2009 (debate) The next item is the report by Marc Tarabella, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on equality between women and men in the European Union - 2009 -.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish to congratulate the European Commission on its excellent report.
Moreover, in a good dozen Member States, the unemployment rate remains higher for women, and women are over-represented in part-time employment.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Member States to supply accurate statistics on the impact of the crisis on women and men, and on the Member States, before they implement any budget austerity policies, to carry out gender-based impact studies so as to prevent women from being disproportionately affected.
I believe therefore that men must also make a commitment to combat violence against women.
The Spanish Presidency of the European Union has decided not only to make the fight against violence against women one of its main priorities by creating, among other things, a European inter-gender violence monitoring centre to provide harmonised data, but also to create a European protection order for victims.
I therefore support this approach and would also call for the creation of a European Year for combating violence against women so as to raise awareness in all the Member States and to ensure that this fight becomes a priority.
I would therefore ask the Member States properly to apply the directives on equal treatment between women and men in employment matters.
I would ask these same Member States to introduce legislative measures to promote gender balance in positions of responsibility, especially in private companies.
Sexual and reproductive rights are an important chapter because women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights.
Thousands of women have put their lives at risk to fight for these rights and, today, 24 of the 27 European countries have legalised abortion.
The European Parliament has a duty to protect this acquis, which is absolutely fundamental for women, and we insist that women must have control of their sexual and reproductive rights, not least by having easy access to contraception and abortion.
Here is a fact: men have a right to be fully involved in the first few days following the arrival of their child in the family.
It is true that, in this regard, we can ask the Commission to support any steps aimed at introducing a form of paternity leave at European level.
We consider that maternity leave must be linked to paternity leave.
When it was presented within the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, this report received high praise from representatives of all the political groups in the European Parliament.
I therefore invite all of my fellow Members to support my report again when the vote takes place on Wednesday, but I shall be listening carefully to the debate that is due to take place, and I will then be able to reply to your questions.
On this basis, the European Union has built a real policy to promote equality between women and men.
During my mandate, gender equality and women's rights have been at the centre of my concerns.
In 2010, the Commission will report on the analysis of the effectiveness of the European legislation and will present courses of action to overcome the pay gap.
I would also remind you that, in March 2009, the Commission launched an awareness campaign aimed at mobilising all of the parties involved to combat the wage gap.
During my mandate, I have also been careful to promote greater representation of women in economic and political life.
The current European Parliament, for example, has its highest ever percentage of women: 35%.
I am pleased to be able to say today that, despite a slower start than we had imagined, the institute has begun its activities in Brussels and is already installed in its offices in Vilnius.
The European Parliament's report also rightly stresses the importance of eliminating violence against women.
This cooperation has been a key factor in the progress made in relation to gender equality.
Madam President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality voted for this report by a tiny majority of three votes, since six of its 33 members were absent.
Furthermore, the proposals to create a European charter of women's rights, and therefore a new form of protection in addition to human rights - which, fortunately, women already enjoy - and a new form of bureaucracy in the shape of a European inter-gender violence monitoring centre, even though we have enough departments to carry out this work, are either counterproductive or incompatible with the principle of gender equality which is, in fact, firmly established in the treaty.
If ridicule could kill, some members of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality would no longer be around.
Finally, I deplore the obstinacy of some members who, on every occasion, irrespective of whether it is appropriate, advocate including in this report non-essential abortion on the pretext that, to ensure sexual and reproductive health, one must advocate free and easy access to abortion.
We have therefore proposed separate votes so that we do not have to vote against the report by Mr Tarabella, who is not to blame, but who has again fallen victim to the extremism of some of his comrades.
I believe it is essential for us to insist on the need to intensify our work on promoting equality between men and women.
When it comes to the impact of the economic crisis on women, I actually think it very important that we put our public finances back in order and restore them to health as quickly as possible; it is this, not the prolongation of public debt, that will benefit women.
I would appeal to the European Commission to carry out a study on the subject for once, as we have a European family policy, but few people realise that one in three households in Europe is a single-person household.
Secondly - and here I am also looking at Mrs Lulling - I am actually delighted with the very plain references to sexual and reproductive health and the sexual autonomy of women; and access to safe, legal abortion is part and parcel of this sexual reproductive health.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, we have a relatively new European Parliament, and we almost have a new European Commission.
This is basically the first time with the Tarabella report that we are voting on the action that the new Parliament's Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality wants taken in the coming years.
Madam President, through its proposal to make abortion easily available in the European Union, this report breaches the exclusive competence of Member States in this area.
A simple ultrasound examination, available in every town in Belgium, even the smallest, is sufficient to enable us to see an on-screen image of an unborn human being.
Therefore, I would ask for this to be borne in mind, before anyone in this Chamber votes in favour of this harmful document.
Madam President, as reality shows and Eurostat itself confirms, the economic and social crisis is having a serious effect on women.
As is emphasised in the report, and I would like to congratulate our rapporteur here, it is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the economic and social situation of women when developing Community policy.
It is time to take significant steps towards improving the lives of the majority of women, including in the area of sexual and reproductive health, and putting an end to the hypocrisy that still surrounds the issue of abortion.
Now, apparently, some Muslims believe that suicide bombers are rewarded with 72 virgins in Paradise, but I cannot find any reference that female suicide bombers are rewarded with the male equivalent.
If we want genuine equality, then individual European States must not recognise Sharia law in any way, shape or form. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more women have entered the labour market.
There are high numbers of women in part-time work and in jobs that have been particularly hard hit by the present crisis.
I would like to emphasise his dedication in dealing with gender equality, women's employment and similar problems.
What is fundamentally unacceptable, however, is the fact that wage differences show up not in the case of those who are at the start of their careers, but when mothers return to the labour market after maternity or parental leaves.
I am very glad Commissioner Špidla announced that we can expect a report in 2010 on steps the Commission intends to take in order to make legislation more effective.
The majority of the almost 80 million people living in poverty in Europe are women and children.
Women are suffering more than anybody else in the economic and social crisis.
I would like to draw to your attention some proposals that I feel are innovative and of great importance and would like to ask for the support of fellow Members in these proposals: the much-needed creation of the European Charter of Women's Rights, as has already been mentioned, the proposal for a directive to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women, domestic violence and the trafficking of women, the inclusion of paternity leave in European legislation, which already exists in the overwhelming majority of Member States, as a means of promoting a balance between work life and family and personal life, and boosting the birth rate.
I would like to finish by thanking Commissioner Špidla for everything he has done in promoting gender equality and for his involvement with the European Parliament.
I wish you every success Commissioner. (BG) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Tarabella, for this report.
This report may be run of the mill for many of my fellow Members, but I regard it as a renewed, more effective commitment to gender equality at European level aimed at boosting the socio-economic status of women, especially of those from the new Member States, as well as at ensuring their broader representation in political and business life and promoting their career development.
Given that social, legal and economic institutions determine the access women and men have to resources, their opportunities and relative power, I feel that it is extremely important for women to be guaranteed equal rights with regard to their involvement in politics, occupying important political and management positions in business and their representation at the highest level in company boardrooms.
In order to make significant progress in terms of equality before the law, equal opportunities, including equal remuneration for work done, and equal access to human resources and other production resources which provide more chances, we - the European Parliament and European Commission - have the opportunity to and must encourage Member States and civil society to adopt effective measures.
We are really looking forward to receiving a proposal from the Commission on new legal action in the course of this legislative period.
The second point concerns paternity leave entitlements.
We want equality for men also, so that they can share time with their kids and have that responsibility if they so desire.
I think this is the single most important factor in promoting gender equality.
If women control their lives economically, they are much better able to control all other aspects of their lives.
We must ensure that, in these challenging economic times, women are not left behind in low-paid, low-security jobs.
I would like to congratulate the European Engineering Industries Association for their recent policy vision, in which they ask for the promotion of maths and science studies, especially for women.
Paternity leave not only sends an important signal that children are the responsibility of both parents, but also has other positive consequences.
These elements must be included if we are to have an accurate picture of Europe in the year 2010. (HU) I wish to propose that the European Parliament take a new approach to the question of abortion.
I refer, in particular, to paragraph 20: 'Parliament wishes to see a European Charter of Women's Rights established'.
In reality, if we do not remove paragraph 20 from this motion for a resolution, we will be adding to the Council of Europe's European Convention on Human Rights, to the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights and to the brand new European Institute for Gender Equality a fourth instrument which would take the form of a special new charter dedicated to the promotion of women.
Natural law, which ought to guide us in our thoughts and in our responsible political action, does not admit of special rights.
If paragraph 20 remains in the motion for a resolution, I am unable to support it.
However, much effort is still required, in particular, in a context of economic and social crisis that is having an even greater impact on one already extremely vulnerable section of the population, namely women.
We must also emphasise the double discrimination that sometimes affects women due to a handicap, to age or to their membership of a national minority.
Equality between women and men is not an objective in itself, but it is a precondition for achieving our general objectives.
The fact that we are still talking about this today, and have been talking about it for 40 years, is a sign that only a multifaceted integrated policy will bring us closer to our objective.
I would ask that when a new Commission is next elected, two candidates for Commissioner should be nominated from each Member State - a man and a woman.
Finally, I want to thank Mr Špidla and I hope that he fulfils all the aims that he has set himself. (EL) Madam President, this important 2009 report quite rightly states that violence is a fundamental obstacle to equality between men and women.
The European Parliament should encourage the Member States, including Greece, to create support structures for abused women in every local authority, with full psychological, legal and professional counselling and properly staffed hostels for women.
The Member States should also take account of the amendments proposed by women's organisations and lawyers to remedy the ambiguities and loopholes in the law in connection with domestic violence.
Finally, anti-sexist education programmes should be introduced in schools in a bid to change social stereotyping. (SK) I would like to begin by saying that I consider it right for the European Parliament to be closely involved in the issue of gender equality.
Sixteen year old Medine Memi from the town of Kahta in the Turkish province of Adiyaman was buried alive by her family in a hen coop next to the family home.
Gender equality is not just about calculating small differences in income but, first and foremost, about the right to life and human dignity which is repeatedly denied to women in many of our neighbouring states. (NL) Madam President, today we are debating the progress report on equality between men and women in the European Union.
Participation by Muslim women in working life or higher education is barely open to discussion for the men and, if at all, the women must wear the burkha or a headscarf, which greatly reduces their chances of finding a job.
Therefore, the European Union should be fighting not for the right to wear the burkha but for the right to work without wearing it.
The PVV wants to see this backwardness combated with vigour.
Yet, their employment rate increased from 51% in 1997 to 58% in 2007.
On average, women earn 17.4% less than men, they are at the greatest risk of poverty and, especially in old age, they are hard hit not only by loneliness and a reliance on care, but also poverty.
The actual injustice of that situation lies in women's inferior position and the fact that there is little recognition for their family and housekeeping duties.
Commissioner, you have just said that you would like a cost-benefit analysis of this situation to be carried out, but you cannot calculate this any more than you can pay for it.
There are many aspects to this, and many have been included in this report.
The really important message we need to put across is that there are already many opportunities out there, but girls and women need to make use of them.
This also applies particularly to immigrant women.
I would also like to make another point: if you look around the Chamber today, you will see that two thirds of us attending this debate are women and one third are men.
We must also win men over to taking a much greater interest in this subject, so that, one day, we can have the two remaining thirds of men attending and supporting women's issues. (PL) Madam President, in Mr Tarabella's report on equality between women and men in the European Union, several very important suggestions have been made to the European Commission and the Member States.
In order to overcome the economic downturn, it is very important to invest in human capital and social infrastructure, creating the conditions for women and men to exploit their full potential.
It is imperative to encourage the equal sharing among men and women of responsibilities in personal and family life and better distribute the time allotted to paid and unpaid work.
The Member States must take all possible measures on access to pre-school child care institutions.
The matter of paternity leave has yet to be resolved.
Moreover, in the Commission's consultations on the new 2020 strategy, insufficient attention is paid to matters of equality between men and women.
Matters of gender equality must be strengthened and integrated in the new strategy.
In conclusion, from the bottom of my heart, I would like to thank the Member of the Commission for our long cooperation in the areas of gender equality, employment and social affairs.
Thank you and good luck! (PL) Madam President, changes are taking place in Europe - as can be seen from the report - which favour improved education and rising employment among women, although there are still great differences.
This improvement is taking place in areas in which women are deciding for themselves and are showing initiative and fortitude.
However, in areas where they have little influence, stereotypes are functioning which do not allow them to advance or to participate in public life.
Therefore, it is crucial, here, to fight the stereotypes and take action intended to promote equality of the sexes in public life and in politics.
We must encourage the Commission and Member States to start a debate and take action to increase the participation of women in politics.
In Poland, we have started a debate on the subject of priority in politics.
A group of women has started a grass-roots initiative to draft a law on parity in politics, so that 50% of the candidates in elections would have to be women.
We have collected over 100 000 signatures in support of the law and have submitted it to the Polish parliament.
A huge debate has begun, and I do not know if the idea will be successful - if parliament will vote in favour of our proposal.
I appeal, therefore, for the commencement of such a debate on the participation of women in politics in the countries of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, it is good that the resolution under discussion includes item 38, which stipulates that women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, notably through easy access to contraception and abortion, and the possibility of a safe abortion.
The figure of 100 000 illegal abortions does not trouble the so-called pro-life campaigners, who hypocritically pretend that these abortions do not take place.
If we succeed in channelling this potential into the economy, we will make a huge leap forward, with regard both to the attitudes still present in European societies and to the Union's new agenda for more growth, jobs and competitiveness.
That goes without saying, because that is how we need to operate in the open, democratic, liberal society in which we all want to live.
At European level, I would remind the House of Directive 2006/54/EC, which requires the Member States to stamp out all forms of discrimination between the sexes by August 2009.
I also welcome and would remind the House of all the initiatives being taken on this issue by the national governments in the Member States of the European Union, the most recent being that by President Sarkozy's government to promote legislation to ban the burkha in public places.
These are all specific steps, but more are needed if we are to change, first and foremost, our attitude in terms of preventing all forms of discrimination.
We need to understand, and to place the utmost emphasis on the fact that the inability to achieve real equality between the sexes is endangering today's children, who are deprived of a stable family environment in which the mother's presence is acutely felt.
It is clear that the upcoming EU 2020 strategy needs to outline a clear commitment regarding gender-equality mainstreaming in all European policies.
The strategy has to be coordinated with the new roadmap for gender equality and also with the future charter for women's rights.
As my colleague, Marc Tarabella, put forward in his report, women's health and sexual rights are an equally important tool for women's socio-economic empowerment as well.
Thank you very much for an excellent contribution from you and from your team. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this extremely interesting debate has already covered just about everything.
If we are successful, and we in the European Parliament can contribute a great deal to such success, then we will achieve a modern Europe of real equal opportunity.
It is clear to us all that this is really only possible with consistent equality between women and men. (DA) Mr President, Mr Tarabella's report on equality between men and women gives an excellent account of the great challenges that we face in the area of equality in the EU.
We must exploit the potential of both sexes and take the initiative in the EU for legislation similar to that of Norway.
It is therefore sheer common sense to fight for equality. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the principle of equality between women and men is part of the central current of the great river that has already freed foreigners, slaves, black people, and that is the principle of human dignity, the same for everyone.
The Tarabella report and that of the Commission are therefore both commendable, because it is right to always insist thoroughly on this principle.
It is therefore unacceptable to do as point 38 of this report does, that is, to speak of abortion as an aspect of sexual reproductive rights, or women's rights.
On the economic crisis, yes it is affecting women, but, of course, when men lose a job, women are also affected.
Women must not be in the role of supplicants.
Then there will be no need for quotas. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a short while ago, I gave a speech about my work in the European Parliament, about my tasks here and about my many appointments.
Well then, in your case, we can talk about real equality.
Equality does pay off! (RO) I welcome this resolution and am pleased that a key place has been given to the issue of women who work in agriculture and do not enjoy any clear, definite legal status with regard to right of ownership and their role in the family household.
We must look for the best applicable solutions for this matter.
The fact that this report contains more than 40 paragraphs is clear evidence that equality and equal opportunities for women are not a subject that we can do justice to in just under an hour.
Furthermore, it is essential that Member States carry out a gender-based impact assessment, because if we want to be serious about fighting the effects of the current crisis, we need action which will take into account the particular position of women.
I think that Member States really should be urged to take action based on such data and impact assessments in order to promote economic recovery.
I am also of the opinion that women have rights over their own bodies and health. (RO) While welcoming this report, I would like to highlight one thing.
I do not think that legislation is relevant, especially because this equality between men and women is a major component in a people's civilisation and culture.
This report, moreover, interferes with the rights of Member States, since it wishes to change their pro-family policies.
I would like to conclude by thanking Commissioner Špidla and wishing him every success. (SK) It is true that the European Union has done much over the past thirty years to improve the position and rights of women.
However, the most striking difference, which still persists and which even continues to deepen, is in the pay of men and women.
The current rate of growth suggests that women will achieve equal participation only in the year 2280.
This must be changed.
There are even a large number of children who cannot be registered in such educational institutions due to an insufficient number of places.
Last but not least, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of single-parent families and to the difficulties encountered by single parents bringing up children on their own. (PL) Mr President, in my opinion, there are two keys to the equal rights of women and men.
Furthermore, I would like to stress that it is very important, in my opinion, to have greater participation of women in political life and in public life in general.
The percentage of women in the European Parliament has risen from 31% to 35%, compared with the previous parliamentary term.
The percentage of women representing Romania is 36%.
I agree, but we also need more information for young boys, particularly to offset the damage that has been done by many films and many television programmes which are not at all conducive to creating an equal society in the spirit of equality.
Not only should they receive gratitude on all sides for this, but they should be given substantial support as part of social policy.
I think we have a lot to do in this area.
Equality of opportunity is, in my view, a really fundamental element of our make-up, emanating no doubt from human rights, and it is also clear that we must secure it for all.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have also discussed measures, cultural aspects, lawmaking and many other aspects of this complex issue.
I believe that we cannot adopt a negative or positive opinion a priori on any remedy.
Existing legislation must certainly be applied consistently.
It is also clear, of course, that new and very bold legislation can often fundamentally change a situation.
Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the work-life balance has been clearly pointed out and, in my opinion, it has also been stated clearly that equality of opportunity is an issue for both men and women.
I am therefore delighted that we have held this debate on the basis of the experience of both sexes and I think that this should always be the case.
Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate the Commissioner on this final effort - yes, I who have often challenged him in other forums - and to simply thank everyone for this very rich debate, in which many Members have spoken.
I have listened carefully to all of them, and it is true that a number of men have spoken, which I am pleased about.
I do, of course, agree with those who have said that this is a fight in which men, too, must participate.
Rest assured that I believe that, in a democracy, these practices are not cultural; rather, they are practices that we must combat by means of democracy.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 10 February.
Written statements (Rule 149) Even though the number of women in the labour market is higher than the number of men for the first time in history, instances of gender-related discrimination persist.
More than half a century after the principle of equal pay was included in the Community Treaties, a woman in the European Union needs to work 418 calendar days to earn what a man earns in 365 days.
Even though the EU's policy has been pioneering, the pay gap has remained stubbornly wide since 2000.
This is why I am calling for the future European Commission to be involved in transposing, in all Member States, Directive 2006/54/EC on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation.
The report on equal opportunities is proposing to give new impetus to equal opportunities within the European Union because the promotion of genuine, democratic equality between women and men remains a benchmark for creating a democracy which integrates the whole of society.
This is reflected in the lower salaries for women, the smaller number of women who work when they have dependants, as well as in the sharing of responsibility between men and women in family life.
Furthermore, we must not forget either the role of women in agriculture in Europe and their contribution to it: one-third of agricultural workers are women.
They are often unpaid and do not enjoy adequate social protection because they carry out their work on farms providing food for their own families.
I believe that the European Parliament must support the initiative in favour of setting up a European centre for monitoring violence against women and, by extension, European legislation aimed at protecting victims, as well as the establishment of a body promoting equal opportunities at United Nations level.
Inequality between women and men in the labour market is reflected in the fact that women still get 80 cents for every euro that men get doing the same job.
Equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the European Union.
However, there are still significant discrepancies between Member States when it comes to offering equal pay for work done, the number of women occupying management posts and the percentage of women in the labour market.
To ensure equal rights for both women and men, Member States must exchange good practice in terms of guaranteeing gender equality.
The report correctly points out the harmful effects of the global economic crisis on the situation of women, particularly as far as jobs and the gender-based wage gap are concerned.
The roadmap that comes into effect after 2010 has to maintain the priorities of the previous strategy, with greater focus on aspects involved in bringing down poverty and social exclusion, especially in a European year dedicated to that topic.
The new strategy must be a concrete action plan with realistic, verifiable goals.
In addition, much more efficient coordination is needed between the European Commission and Member States in view of their implementation.
