Volcanic ash crisis (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Brian Simpson, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the volcanic ash crisis (B7-0217/10).
Ironically, in view of this evening's discussion, he has been caught up in the flight restrictions related to the ash cloud restrictions in the UK and therefore has been unable to travel to Strasbourg for the discussion.
I will therefore be speaking on his behalf this evening.
The oral question on the volcanic ash crisis is just as relevant today, in the context of the ongoing disruption to airspace, as it was at the time of the initial eruption of the Icelandic volcano last month, when we saw much of EU airspace closed for six days.
The European Union has been heavily affected by the consequences of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano eruption in Iceland.
Taking into account evolutions in the situation and the need for a more differentiated approach to the model and risk management procedures, the Commission took the initiative, over the weekend of 17 and 18 April, with the Spanish Presidency and Eurocontrol, to propose a coordinated European approach.
At the extraordinary meeting of EU Transport Ministers that took place on 19 April 2010, this new procedure was endorsed, thereby allowing for a gradual reopening of airspace in a coordinated manner as of 08.00 on 20 April 2010.
It received broad support from the Council of Transport Ministers at its extraordinary meeting of 4 May 2010.
The Commission is therefore committed to ensuring a prompt follow-up to the Transport Council conclusions as adopted on 4 May 2010.
The European Crisis Coordination Cell has been agreed with effect from 11 May 2010.
The nomination of a functional airspace blocks coordinator was endorsed by the Single Sky Committee on 7 May 2010.
The designation of Eurocontrol's performance review committee as an SES performance review body was also carried out by the Single Sky Committee on 7 May 2010.
There is more to come as the Commission works towards meeting the Council of Transport Ministers' expectations, as expressed in their conclusions of 4 May 2010.
The SES II package was adopted in November 2009 in record time, as is also mentioned in the Commission's briefing note.
I do not believe that we need to consider in future that an SES III regulation will be required to combine the blocks.
Consequently, we must continue to work not only on structural measures to improve the efficiency of our aviation and of our transport system in general - I shall return to this shortly - but also on better crisis management.
Passengers' rights are a very important element.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have already held a debate about the ash cloud and the associated problems for aviation in the immediate aftermath of the volcanic eruption.
In Germany, for example, BMW had some production bottlenecks due to not receiving deliveries.
Passenger rights have been subject to varying comments from different speakers.
The first is the Single European Sky.
He is now starting work, and we all very much hope that his work will relatively soon be able to lead to a single European airspace.
Unfortunately, I have to say that this clearly did not succeed at all, either in coordinating the measurements, in the analyses or in respect of passengers.
Moreover, we really need to take account of the fact that, ultimately, the airlines have been receiving a long-term subsidy from European citizens through the abolition of the kerosene tax, meaning, of course, a priori that they already have a subsidy.
I should perhaps like to start by thanking Commissioner Kallas for his endurance during those five days.
We might perhaps consider that the first two or three days could have seen a little more action, but on the whole, I believe that the Commissioners carried out their work extremely properly, and that the decisions of the Council were such as to give great encouragement within the context of the Single European Sky to the measures taken on the adoption of functional airspace bloc coordinators and the implementation of the measures by the European Aviation Safety Agency, and many others of these measures were taken quickly.
I am pleased to hear today that there will soon be decisions on the creation of the Single European Sky and that, according to the Commissioner, an airspace coordinator already began work in May.
I do not hold the Commission or the Council responsible, but we need to acknowledge the diagnosis that the institutions have not been capable, as they currently stand, of solving a crisis of this magnitude and proportions. (ES) Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Kallas for his work over the last few days and say that the crisis involving ash from the Icelandic volcano causing European mobility to be blocked, which even yesterday caused further closures of European airspace in Ireland and the United Kingdom, along with the two extraordinary Council meetings called by the Spanish Presidency at the Commission's suggestion, have taught us several things.
We also urgently need to launch the Single European Sky ATM Research system, which underlies the Single European Sky, along with guaranteed funding.
The financial burdens are very significant on all actors - passengers, airlines and airports.
However, beyond this aspect, and more structurally still, I would like to ask you about risk cover by the sector itself in this type of crisis - and I stress by the sector itself.
More than 100 000 flights have been cancelled and around 12 million passengers have not been able to travel as planned.
We have not seen such sustained disruption to the industry with such enormous financial losses since 9/11 and, notwithstanding the financial difficulties currently facing all Member States, I would urge them to back plans to support an industry which simply cannot sustain further losses.
In addition, we must remember that when decisions are made in the EU regarding closing EU airspace, the impact of such decisions does not stop at our borders, and discussions with the remainder of the ICAP countries must take place.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that in a healthy entrepreneurial environment, no support - and I mean no support at all - of this kind can be justified for airline companies from the governments, and therefore from the citizens, of the EU. (PL) In April, a volcanic eruption caused the complete paralysis of air traffic in European air space.
For after all, the total chaos in air traffic experienced by passengers, and their complete lack of knowledge about when flights would be resumed, show the EU institutions, including principally the European Commission, in an extremely bad light.
I think that the measures currently proposed by the Commission are, unfortunately, not sufficient. (EL) Commissioner, the closure of two major airports yesterday, in London and Amsterdam, due to a new volcanic ash cloud, demonstrated that the grounding of flights in April was not the result of an improbable event with no long-term repercussions or risk of repetition.
For three consecutive days in April, the international industry lost USD 400 million a day, threatening to blow efforts to restructure the financially weaker airlines in Europe sky high.
The EU Transport Ministers have established three separate flying zones based on the safety risk to aircraft.
I have to say that, since the introduction of the third zone, over 300 000 hours of airline operations have taken place.
The Declaration of Madrid, adopted in February by the Spanish Presidency, established a roadmap for putting this policy in place.
The role of the European Union must be strengthened in the aftermath of this crisis. (LT) The consequences of the volcanic ash crisis had a negative impact on the transport system of all of Europe when ash from the erupting volcano forced the cancellation of more than 100 000 flights and disrupted the journeys of 10 million passengers.
This crisis affected the European Union's Eastern Member States particularly badly, as they remained completely isolated from Western Europe and, unlike other EU Member States, did not have the opportunity to choose alternative modes of transport.
In addition, following the implementation of this project, the region's residents would have an alternative to air transport. (ES) Madam President, I am going to talk about tourism, a fundamental sector for the Canary Islands, which receive around 12 million tourists per year.
Situations like the one that we have experienced - and which may be repeated - have dramatic consequences for this strategic sector for the Canary Islands.
The losses have not only been suffered by the airlines, the airports and the tour operators: hotels, car hire companies, restaurants and services in general have suffered huge damage.
Between 15 and 23 April alone, 313 818 aeroplane seats were cancelled in the Canary Islands, with losses of around EUR 57.3 million as a result of the tourists not coming.
I must ask you to continue working to this end. (PT) Madam President, the situation created by the eruption of the volcano in Iceland has demonstrated the significant impact that a certain type of natural phenomena - that are fortunately rare, but demonstrably occur periodically - can have on the economy and society.
Commissioner, many steps have been taken and it is now time to contemplate specific alternatives and to implement them, for example, the expansion of the trans-European high-speed network, which can also help reduce CO2 emissions. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are 2 000 volcanoes around the world, 50 of which are active.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner, together with Eurocontrol, to perhaps entrust the European Research Council with the task of carrying out research in order to properly judge this risk.
Now I can elaborate at least 10 times more on all these issues, but I will be brief - do not worry - or at least not too long.
Regarding the future, the key issue mentioned by somebody is what about Indonesia, what about the United States?
European air traffic is very busy and there must be some kind of combination between greater flexibility and clear data about the possible threats and possible risks.
Again, the enforcement of this legislation is in the hands of Member States but I understand that most airlines and most Member States also have taken this very seriously.
This is State aid, and State aid can be given if Member States consider that there are enough reasons to give State aid to an airline which is in trouble, because passenger rights and all these costs must be borne by the airline.
It is at the planning stages that it is very important to also consider other modes and indeed other engines.
This year's far smaller eruption of Eyjafjallajökull has literally wrought havoc with air transport in the European Union.
