It is intended to be compulsory in all of our Member States and at EU level.
For older citizens, we are calling for a European fifty-plus employment pact initiative.
By means of the numerous joint motions and 22 compromises, we achieved a broad consensus.
Secondly, I think that young people in particular are disadvantaged, and youth in my country, in Ireland, are the most disadvantaged group ever because now they are landed with the big debt resulting from the banking crisis and, despite being highly educated, they have one choice only, to choose their ticket abroad if they want to work; there are no jobs for them at home.
However, as far as elderly people are concerned, I cannot agree with the elimination of the provision on retirement before reaching the normal retirement age.
But there are other ways that older people are treated badly, including age discrimination in the workplace, and that is why I am pleased that in this report, we call for the proper implementation of the 2000 Employment Directive and for older people to be made aware of their rights.
I think that justice between generations is an important characteristic of a developed society.
In this report, therefore, I think there are problems with point 99, in which the rapporteur states, among other things, that it is necessary to replace a continually funded pension system with a system based on capital funds.
In 2008, for example, private pension funds lost more than 20% of their value.
The average fertility rate in the European Union is 1.5 children, which is clearly among the lowest in the world.
I welcome and I fully support the so-called policy of active ageing, the aim of which is to allow people to stay healthy, even at an advanced age, to participate in social life, and to improve the quality not only of their own lives but also the life of society as a whole in a spirit of inter-generational solidarity. (RO) The current problem is that young and old people are encountering difficulties in finding a job.
The task of achieving justice between the generations will therefore be one of the main social challenges facing European and national policy in the coming years.
Member States will have a vital role to play in providing conditions ensuring that the impact on citizens is kept to a minimum.
As you know, the Commission has already adopted two major initiatives in this area: our Green Paper on pensions, which will be followed next year by a White Paper outlining future activities, and our proposal - based on your proposal, Mr Mann - to designate 2012 as the European Year for Active Ageing.
The younger generations of Europeans are also much more likely to come from different migration backgrounds, for instance, and this transformation brings challenges for policy makers in the Member States.
It will prove a big hurdle to achieving the Europe 2020 goals if we do not succeed in mobilising our underutilised demographic potential.
As long as our old people have to finance our young people who cannot find work and are increasingly few in number, there will only be two possible roads left open to us: let other, non-European, people drive our growth or surrender ourselves to the flywheel of international finance, which can make our capital productive.
In the coming decade, it is estimated that the labour force will shrink by 3 million just when the EU has one of the lowest birth rates in the world.
The report on demographic challenges deals with socio-economic problems arising from the fact that there is an increasingly ageing population and the associated high financial burden on future generations.
The European population is ageing.
It is estimated that the number of young people aged between 0 and 14 years will go down from 100 million (1975 figure) to 66 million in 2050, and that the working age population will drop from the current 331 million to 268 million in 2050.
In addition, the proportion of people aged over 80 will rise from 4.1% in 2005 to 11.4% in 2050.
The EU and the Member States have to act urgently and in a concerted manner, not least because today, we are already seeing a high unemployment rate amongst young people, and there are already difficulties in financing pension schemes.
The proportion of people aged over 60 years will increase every year by two millions (beginning from 2015).
According to Eurostat, the average working age will increase by 7% by 2060.
Member States need to devise a clear, coherent policy for creating intergenerational solidarity and involving the population in the labour market at much older ages than now.
The demographic problems facing the European Union are becoming increasingly apparent, with their impact affecting rural areas in particular.
We are in danger of seeing a drop in the working population in rural areas, the effects of which will have an adverse impact in future on agricultural productivity.
in writing. - Mr President, I would like to welcome the report of my colleague, Thomas Mann, that addresses several crucial issues that the European Union will be facing in the near future if not already now.
One worrying fact is that the ratio between the population over the age of 65 and the population of working age (aged between 15 and 64) is due to double by 2060 (from 25.4% to 53.5%).
The growth of this ratio in Romania is alarming as it is set to increase from 21.3% in 2008 to 65.3% in 2060.
Many people wrongly think that older people have fewer needs.
Increasing the proportion of older employees and women in active employment is only a short-term solution.
It gives us a little time, which we must use in order to motivate young people in particular to start a family and raise children.
