Female poverty - Equality between women and men - 2010 (debate) Τhe next item is the topical item of the day, the joint debate on the following reports on women in the European Union: the report by Mrs Mariya Nedelcheva, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on equality between women and men in the European Union - 2010 (Α7-0029/2011); and the report by Mrs Rovana Plumb, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the face of female poverty in the European Union.
I believe that this House of ours must ensure that it stays at the forefront of this momentum even when it comes to the most sensitive of subjects.
As highlighted in my report, the effects of the crisis have been felt more severely by women and its effects longer lasting for them than is the case for men.
The European recovery plan will have a greater chance of success today if gender equality policies are an integral part of it.
The wind of freedom sweeping across North Africa should wipe out the last vestiges of authoritarianism, poverty and social exclusion, so that women in these countries become socially, politically and economically emancipated whilst respecting their culture and their traditions.
rapporteur. - Madam President, firstly, let me wish all women a happy anniversary on this important date, 8 March, the day which marks the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day, 100 years of struggle for women's rights.
I would like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the secretariat for their contributions to this report.
My report deals with an issue which is both general and eminently concrete in terms of its consequences: female poverty. 85 million Europeans live below the poverty line and 17% of all women in the EU are classed as living in poverty.
These are the facts.
The economic, financial and social crisis affects all of us, but it particularly harms women in the labour market and in their personal lives, since they are more likely to be in insecure jobs, more likely to be made redundant and less likely to have social security.
Second, we call on the Commission and the Member States to take the appropriate measures to eliminate gender inequalities in employment as part of Europe 2020.
The third issue is related to reconciliation between private and professional life.
Fourth, we call on the Commission and Member States to frame health policies which aim to combat and prevent practices that harm women's health and cause social exclusion and poverty.
Eighth, let us underline the importance of the Structural Funds and, in particular, the European Social Fund, as key tools to assist Member States to combat poverty and social exclusion.
We have the strength and the intelligence to tackle this important issue at European level and in all Member States.
The second element is women in the world of employment.
There is the problem of the pay gap where women still earn 17% less on average than men - and you might have seen that on 5 March, we had the European Gender Pay Gap Day, with measurements to see how much more women have to work than men in order to reach the same level of pay.
The fact is that we were, in effect, not paid until 5 March; we had to work until then without being paid.
Only from 5 March on did we start to be paid.
The themes which are mentioned in our strategy for gender equality are the same as the ones the rapporteur has mentioned: economic independence for women, gender pay gap, violence against women and promoting gender equality in external actions.
Women and children are the most vulnerable in our societies but also in the societies outside, and that is why the Commission is working to streamline its various policy initiatives on violence against women and to create synergies between areas with similar objectives.
So this is where we are in developing a coherent policy response to tackle this huge problem: my link is concrete actions in areas where there are clear legal bases in order to have efficiency, and in this regard, I am going to present a victims' rights package in May this year in which legislation to help women and children will, of course, be very high on the agenda.
You know that on 1 March, I brought the CEOs of large European listed companies around a table to tell them that we do not agree anymore with the 90% quota for men on boards of directors - because that is what is happening.
So we think that this should be tackled, mainly because all the economic evidence and the scientific evidence on economic functioning shows very clearly that companies with an balanced decision-making structure have a higher return on investment and make more profits than companies with solely male decision-making structures.
There are indeed urgent measures that the Member States need to take in these areas.
They also need to strike a better balance between work and private or family life and to remove other disincentives to participation in the workforce by second earners, who again are mostly women.
It is important to increase the employment rate in the EU and the key challenge in this area is the participation in the labour market by all workers, both male and female.
It is a source of great concern to the Commission that over 80 million people are at risk of poverty in today's European Union.
I mentioned that more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty in today's European Union.
What is even more worrying is that over 20 million children are among them and the figure has not improved over time.
The Facility provides loans to people who have lost their jobs and want to start up or develop their own small businesses.
A budget of EUR 100 million has been made available over four years but can be increased to more than EUR 500 million in the joint initiative with the international financial institutions.
Madam President, as the rapporteur for the opinion on the report on equality, I concentrated on the labour market.
Unfortunately, the pay differential is still 17% and women are still not always represented in management and supervisory boards.
We have a good level of education and the state invests in these young women and mothers.
However, on the other side, any report on equality should not forget that men are also disadvantaged in some respects.
Madam President, one hundred years ago, women demanded the right to vote and stand for election and today, we are still campaigning for equality for women in many areas, particularly in terms of career options, but also in relation to payment for work and social entitlements, particularly in old age.
This is revealed not only by the earnings gap between men and women.
Despite their increasing involvement in the labour market, statistics in all 27 Member States of the European Union show that women are at greater risk of poverty than men.
Studies show that even in these part-time jobs, women are still paid significantly less than men for the same working hours and the same work.
Women are traditionally at a higher risk of poverty, especially single mothers and women over the age of 65.
Among the five objectives proposed by the European Commission in the EU 2020 strategy is the fight against poverty, which makes the report by Mrs Plumb extremely relevant, especially in terms of gender policies in the light of the economic and financial crisis.
The vulnerability of individual women leaves them exposed to the risk of poverty, social exclusion and therefore isolation.
I also congratulate Mrs Nedelcheva on a good report that promotes equality between men and women in the European Union.
Discrimination still thrives in the workplace, there is deep segregation of the labour market according to gender, the pay gap continues, there is still a shortage of women in decision-making positions and politics and insufficient support for motherhood and single mothers.
In the European Parliament's report on equality between men and women, we established that it is crucial to strengthen the principle of gender equality in the family and society, to stop violence against women and trafficking in women, guarantee maternity leave, create suitable conditions to take advantage of the services of nurseries and childcare centres, reduce female poverty and assess the contribution made by women to the development of family, society and the economy.
In order to achieve these objectives, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Member States must work together, and on this historic day, I would like to convey my greetings to all women and to call on them to continue to fight for their rights and equal opportunities.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, first of all, let me congratulate all my colleagues on the fruitful work done over the years as summarised in my report on inequality between men and women, and on the crucial issue of poverty addressed in Mrs Plumb's report.
Mrs Reding, on this symbolic day, we look forward to the EU strategy on combating violence against women, as you have already promised.
Madam President, 8 March 2011, the one hundredth anniversary of International Women's Day.
That calls for a celebration of everything we have achieved, such as the franchise for women, the right to equality and reproductive rights, at least in the more civilised countries.
However, this is also a day for feeling sad about all the things that are still not as they should be.
In the EU, women are still severely under-represented in decision making, caring responsibilities fall almost entirely on women's shoulders and there is still a persistent income gap between men and women, including outside the EU, where some countries have not even begun working on giving women the franchise.
The hundredth anniversary of International Women's Day also calls for an historical comparison.
This time, not because of a war, fortunately, but because of an ageing population.
Together, we can ensure that it does not take another hundred years before men and women have equal rights and equal opportunities in every sphere.
Madam President, I am the shadow rapporteur for the report on the face of female poverty in Europe, so I will focus on this report.
I would briefly just like to say that the report also includes some issues we would find it difficult to support.
This includes, for example, the call to create a European charter of women's rights and the reference to the report on maternity leave, which, as we know, the Member States have not accepted.
We are to debate the situation of women in the EU, but I think it is important for us today to also show our solidarity with those women who, right now, out on the streets and in the squares, are showing enormous courage by taking part in the fight for democracy and justice in other countries.
Only 6 out of 10 women in Europe participate in the labour market, and when they have a job, it is often a precarious part-time job that does not provide a decent living.
I hope that we will soon be able to discuss parental insurance, where men and women take equal responsibility for providing for the family, but also for looking after the children.
If women in the EU were to work to the same extent as men, prosperity would increase by more than a quarter.
Quotas are called for.
I believe that quotas are a necessary instrument in a society in which only 3% of large companies are headed by women.
Quotas are therefore a necessary instrument for putting right what is wrong in our society.
I am not interested in the honourable Member's country or other people's countries, I am interested in my country and my economy, and I can tell you that all businessmen and women will say that they will not employ young women because of the draconian maternity laws.
The less you regulate, the less you tax, the less you interfere, the quicker our economy will recover.
That is what it is all about, and that is something the honourable Member does not understand. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (PT) Madam President, Mr Bloom, do you know what the United Kingdom's problem is?
It is having 52 weeks of poorly paid maternity leave.
I would have liked to ask you, Mr Bloom, if you think that children are just the children of women, and that fathers have no responsibility and no need for paternity leave or to look after their families other than by going to work. (Applause) Madam President, in reply to Ms Jäätteenmäki, I would say that I believe that children are the responsibility of their parents and nobody else.
The more self-responsibility we had in Europe - and indeed, the world - the better it would be, in my view. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the signs of the absolute poverty of our society that we still need to discuss the issue of equality between men and women.
There are plenty of women who are better qualified than men and yet we find ourselves discussing equal pay for equal work - incredible.
This has serious consequences for society because poverty leads to illness and can consequently result in unemployment. (HU) Madam President, today, there have been two debates in Parliament the subjects of which were based on the reports of my fellow Members - on these I congratulate them - and in which it is truly difficult to say anything new, since the situation is almost unchanged and, in a certain sense, has even become worse over the past years.
In the debate on the wages of men and women, for example, we have been saying year after year that there is still a sizeable difference, even though the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' was laid down in the Treaty of Rome already back in 1957.
We cannot state often enough that the wage difference, as has been pointed out by my fellow Member more or less in the same sense, is the punishment of women for motherhood, and is created when young women return to the labour market.
True, there is some progress: the introduction of the 'equal pay day' represents some measure of progress, but the truly great achievement would have been if that day were held on 1 or 2 January instead of 5 March. (PT) Madam President, women are in the majority in universities and are better qualified, but when it comes to decision-making positions, their rise is blocked by a glass ceiling.
When it comes to gender equality, it is not just differences and social justice that are the issue.
Those countries where quotas are applied, where they were already being used 20 years ago - I am thinking here of Northern European countries - have indeed shown that our objectives can be achieved through this measure and these days, people have reconsidered their behaviour - quotas are not necessary to the same extent as they were in the past.
It is considered the norm for women to participate in all areas of society.
We are dealing with a report into women and poverty; one of the key reasons for this problem is wage inequality between women and men.
As we have already heard, wage equality has been enshrined in the Treaties of Rome since 1957.
However, the pay differential is still 17.5% throughout Europe and as high as 23% in Germany.
Furthermore, Commissioner Reding, all you have done is to designate 5 March as European Equal Pay Day, an announcement you made on Friday, 4 March.
I hear that you want the second objective I mentioned. (PL) Madam President, the problem of female poverty, which is of the utmost importance, is raised in the resolution under discussion.
Furthermore, it is women who shoulder parental and child-rearing responsibilities while, at the same time, participating in the very difficult and ever-changing labour market.
The situation of women in the EU Member States is very diverse, and it is therefore extremely important to show solidarity and understanding for women in regions where the problem of poverty is particularly acute.
Nothing can replace respect and social culture, and legislation will not be enough either. (PT) Madam President, it is particularly significant that this year, on International Women's Day, we are discussing these reports that seek to draw attention to the inequalities and discrimination that persist.
In some countries, society is even taking backward steps.
It is time to prioritise women and their rights, equality, and economic and social cohesion, so that we can have a better society; so that we can truly respect human rights and consolidate the progress that women have helped to build for our civilisation. (ES) Madam President, today is a very significant day to talk about equality between men and women because we are celebrating International Women's Day, remembering those who fought for women's working and economic rights and their right to vote 100 years ago.
We have made considerable progress in those 100 years, but much remains to be done.
Allow me, on this International Women's Day, to demonstrate my support and hope to all women fighting for their democratic rights in the revolution in North Africa.
As for combating violence against women, we look to the Commission to indicate what its intentions are, to agree to our call for the creation of a European Year highlighting this issue, and to put forward a strategy.
Unfortunately, equal pay is not yet a reality despite the many efforts made by some Member States and by the European Commission, in particular.
Paternity leave has also regrettably been rejected by Member States despite the all-out efforts of this Parliament and the right to abortion is still not recognised in four Member States of the Union and challenged in others.
I welcome the new Belgian law on quotas for female representation in companies and on company boards, as well as the tremendously proactive approach displayed on this matter by Mrs Reding and President Buzek even in the press on the other side of the Atlantic.
In the 30 years between the first elections to the European Parliament and 2009, when I was elected, the representation of women has more than doubled.
However, we need to be mindful of how far we push calls for more equality and in what areas.
It is those women - who suffer from discrimination, are deliberately discouraged from achievement, or are victims of repression - who surely deserve our absolute attention. (DE) Madam President, firstly, I would like to welcome the small number of men who have joined the small number of women in this plenary.
I have been successfully campaigning for this at national and European level for over 50 years.
Unfortunately, the report on the equality of women and men in the EU 2010 once again contains exaggerated demands that are counterproductive for women in the final analysis.
Since the introduction of the women's quota between 2003 and 2009 the number of companies quoted on the stock market has decreased from 554 to 362.
In Norway, 70 women, known as 'golden skirts', occupy about 300 seats on management boards.
This is warped, but very interesting.
I also regret that this report recommends in the same breath that women should be allowed easy access to contraception and abortion.
In other words, abortion is equated with contraception as a simple means of birth control.
I cannot agree to this, quite apart from the fact that the EU has no powers in this area - subsidiarité oblige!
On the fundamental issue of pensions, the European Commission should be leading the charge in closing the structural gaps between women and men.
We need to underline that during the ongoing discussions on pensions, the female factor has come up very rarely.
It is also important to remind ourselves of what Clara Zetkin did one hundred years ago, because bridging the gender pay gap was her idea.
It will be really important too that we make changes in the style of Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire - remembering that Ginger Rogers had to do everything 'backwards in high heels'. (PL) Madam President, the reports on inequalities affecting women and men in the European Union contain many suggestions for what should be done and what steps should be taken to reduce these inequalities.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to Commissioner Reding for the measures she is taking at European level to reduce differences between women and men.
We collected over 100 000 signatures for a social and legal initiative and, as a result of a broad debate which mobilised public opinion, the Polish Parliament voted through 35% parity for women on all electoral lists, including those for European elections.
Even in Europe, there is a great reawakening of women's participation, starting with demands to respect the dignity of women in the media and in the behaviour of men in institutions, as was said in town squares on 13 February by 1 million Italian women and many concerned men.
The second point, Commissioner, concerns equal access to positions of responsibility.
As you know, I am French and I was against quotas.
But after 10 years, I have realised that without quotas, we will not achieve anything.
If men were the ones who became pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament. (ES) Madam President, I would like to express my acknowledgement and gratitude to all the women, many of whom are well known and written about, but many others of whom are anonymous, who have worked and fought these last 100 years to achieve the standard of equality we now have.
However, there still remains much to be done, and these reports bring us to issues such as the reconciliation of family and work life, difficulties in accessing the labour market or the fight against gender-based violence, which is one of the main scourges that exists in Europe and worldwide.
In spite of many measures undertaken to ensure equal rights, the issue of the pay difference between women and men is still unresolved.
Thank you. (FI) Madam President, on this International Women's Day, it is worth examining how equality is actually implemented in Europe.
That is very true of older women in particular, and that is why they should be helped in every possible way.
According to OECD figures, 30 to 50% of all economic activity of women does not appear in current measures of affluence, such as per capita GDP, for example.
In recognising this work, we will take a fundamental step towards solving poverty. (EL) Madam President, I have something different to say: today is not a day of celebration, as far as I am concerned; it is a day of remembrance of the women who died in the uprising in America not 100, but 157 years ago.
To close, I call on you Madam President, as a female president, to circumvent the rules and to give the floor to the remaining ten female speakers for this special ceremony for Women's Day. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, both here in the Chamber and in the galleries, the campaign for women's rights in the workplace, in the family, in democracy, for economic independence for women and against male violence, female poverty and discrimination against single mothers, lesbians and female migrants, is one that has already gone on for too long.
Mrs Morin-Chartier has already said that she would not have put much faith in quotas ten years ago, but that she has changed her mind: quotas are essential.
We have men's quotas in all supervisory boards, in all statutory authorities, in politics and in business.
That is why we need quotas and wage equality. (EL) Madam President, I think that today is a very important day; we are celebrating Women's Day, the day of the women we love, the women we respect, the women who are our mothers, wives, sisters and daughters, working women and housewives.
Thank you ladies, all of you, both present and absent from this meeting. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, I would like to make a special dedication to all the women who fight every day for the respect of their rights in modern society, to all the women who choose to have a child knowing that this will make it difficult to reconcile their working lives with their new role as mothers, to all the women who, aware of their talents and abilities, decide to press ahead on their own way despite the many obstacles.
Precisely for this reason, I support the introduction of, at least initially, obligatory quotas for women as a means of breaking a culture that only helps men.
The discriminator is the rest of society.
Today, I would like to express my thanks to the pioneering women who paved the way for us, making it possible for so many women now to play a role in political life and in business.
There is still a long way to go, but we are on the right track.
We are present in low income jobs, when 60% of university graduates are female.
They can also be men - but victims are mainly female, including small girls.
That is why, in the victims' package, which I will present in May, this fact will be taken into consideration.
We should not forget that we are also celebrating one hundred years since Marie Curie won the Nobel Prize.
I would like to say to all the women in this room that we should be proud to be women. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I believe that one hundred years of struggle and one hundred years of progress have to be respected, but we also have to acknowledge that contemporary Europe is still far from full equality between men and women.
I agree with Mrs Zimmer.
I agree with those who highlighted that this is not only an issue that applies inside the EU: this is an international responsibility which we have to pursue.
Madam President, Mrs Reding, Commissioner, I should like to thank all my fellow Members for their contributions and their speeches.
However, these different connotations must not make us lose sight of our common goals.
Lastly, I believe that gender equality remains an issue for us all.
Above all, I believe that each of us has the free will to recognise this and to work towards it becoming a reality. 2011 is the European Year of Volunteering, and our greatest joint initiative this year should be achieving genuine progress in gender equality.
I would also like to thank all my colleagues for their strong messages on this important debate today.
First of all, I would like to say that gender equality is not only a matter of social justice; it is also a matter for progress and we need to build together a fair society for all of us.
Next, I would like to say that I strongly support quotas.
Yes, we need women in top positions, but let us not forget poverty.
We need support for all citizens; we need support from the whole of society and I would like to thank the NGOs, the social partners and all women and men in society who are fighting year by year, day by day, to achieve gender equality.
The vote on the two reports will take place at midday today, 8 March.
Written statements (Rule 149) Following the celebration of the centenary of International Women's Day, it would not be going too far to stress the enriching role that women play in the development of the family, of society and of the economy, although it is often underestimated and underpaid, which significantly increases the risk of poverty.
One of the main problems lies in limited access to work, in working conditions, or even in accessing roles compatible with their qualifications.
The promotion of equality also involves the struggle against violence against women, whether physical, psychological or sexual, which must be combated and condemned.
As such, specific programmes have to be adopted to promote the active inclusion or reintegration of women in the labour market, whilst creating specific opportunities for lifelong learning with a view to providing them with skills and qualifications, as well as to reinforcing their confidence and developing the skills necessary in the light of the Europe 2020 strategy.
On the day when we are celebrating International Women's Day, I support the principles set out in the report on 'Equality between women and men - 2010'.
In general, Romanian women are better educated than Romanian men, with a steady rise being seen in the proportion of women among the total number of graduates.
The current situation is that 60% of graduates are women and only 40% are men.
In the hope that the labour market will treat women more fairly, I would like us, too, to help change this situation.
The issue of gender equality deserves appropriate attention, particularly at the time of the hundredth anniversary of International Women's Day.
The gap is caused by the fact that working women interrupt their professional lives more often than men, in order to look after children and sick or older family members, and, because of their family commitments, are more willing than men to accept part-time work or non-permanent work arrangements.
Last but not least, I consider it important to secure access to support services aimed at preventing gender-based violence and protecting women against such violence, regardless of their legal status, race, age, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or religion, which the report also calls on the Commission and the Member States to do.
Gender equality is a fundamental principle of our times, but inequality between men and women still persists.
The current economic and social crisis is having a very negative effect on the living conditions of men and women in the EU.
It is also important to take account of the position of women within the framework of the fight against poverty.
The inequalities between men and women, especially regarding access to education or the sharing out of family responsibilities, are factors which exacerbate female poverty.
It is, of course, appropriate that we should be discussing gender equality on International Women's Day, but it is not enough.
The issue's importance must also be made apparent on all other days when we are taking decisions.
All these issues have been and will obviously long continue to be visible in the way Parliament votes.
There is less risk of dogmatism when it comes to equality between women and men, but overly radical positions are still held.
As one of the reports reveals, over 20 million Europeans, mostly women, have limited access to the labour market because they care for dependent adults.
I believe that taking concrete steps to reconcile professional and family life is a matter of the utmost importance for both social and economic development in Europe.
I believe that the European Union should make every effort to ensure that the huge potential of its capable and well-educated female citizens is fully unlocked.
The potential women offer in terms of running businesses is used to a very small extent.
This is why I think that both the European Social Fund and the European Fund for Regional Development must support actions which will allow entrepreneurship to develop among women.
One hundred years after the first public demonstrations by women in the fight for their rights, it has still not brought the desired outcome.
Women the world over are again coming out onto the streets, just like 100 years ago.
The past 100 years have shown what women have given to the world and to progress, and how many of them gave their lives in the struggle for peace, and also how many new lives they have brought into the world.
However, the world still owes a debt to women.
I should firstly like to pay tribute to the bold and enormous task undertaken by my colleague, Mrs Nedelcheva, the rapporteur on this matter.
Ever since I started my political career, I have campaigned for women's access to abortion in a safe medical setting.
An important step in this direction would be to introduce family tax splitting in all Member States so that the establishment of a family does not become a poverty trap.
Social solidarity and the European social model are values which distinguish Europe from societies in other parts of the world.
From this perspective, pension and health reforms at the national level must be fair to both sexes.
As we discuss the report by Mrs Nedelcheva today, the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day, it is high time for us finally to follow up our words with deeds.
These include mandatory women's quotas on corporate boards, as well as all other levels, the consistent combating of precarious employment conditions, which affect women far more than men, the improvement of career prospects for women during education by systematically expanding the range of careers open to them, a ban on financial disadvantage to women in taxation and income, statutory equality plans in business and industry in order to promote women, and regular checks and reports on the progress achieved in Europe, if any.
