Standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation - Action plan on organ donation and transplantation (2009-2015) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Mikolášik, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation - C6-0480/2008 -, and the report by Mr Perello Rodriguez, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Commission Communication: Action plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation (2009-2015): Strengthened Cooperation between Member States.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety voted on the draft report on 16 March, when it was adopted by a clear majority in the context of the rapporteur's recommendations.
We expressed clear agreement that Member States should set up a national framework which will set out all stages of the process organisationally, from donation to transplantation.
Allow me to give you an example: currently in the European Union, there are 18 donors for every million inhabitants.
If we were able to increase this figure to equal the highest figures, such as 34 in Spain or more than 30 in Portugal, 20 000 more lives would be saved in Europe.
Likewise, promoting organ donation by living donors across the European Union to the levels in Scandinavian countries, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands would free a further 2 000 people from dialysis every year.
The debate this afternoon is going to enable us to give a definitive boost to the launch of a common Union strategy for achieving the best structure in the world for organ donation and transplantation.
We now have two important Commission initiatives on this, which were presented in 2008, and on which the Council, along with Parliament, has worked very hard and very generously in recent months.
The first is the proposal for a directive regulating the quality and safety aspects of organs intended for transplantation.
It is through the joint work of all the Union's institutions that we have to reach an agreement that will enable us to launch a European service which, on the one hand, will give 500 million people the best guarantees of quality and safety and, on the other, will promote equal access to the treatment on which so many lives depend every year, and also the solidarity of our society.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, 56 000 Europeans are waiting for an organ transplant in Europe; for many of these people, a successful transplant is a matter of life and death.
Let me recall that the key objectives of these two initiatives are to improve quality and safety for human organs for transplantation, to increase organ availability and to make transplantation systems more efficient and accessible.
The six-year action plan sets out 10 priority actions to reinforce cooperation between Member States through joint actions and the sharing of best practices.
I note the wishes of Parliament to include in the action plan activities which could not become legal obligations in the directive under Article 168 of the treaty, in particular, regarding criteria for allocating organs, recording the wishes of potential donors and issues related to medical practices.
Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Mikolášik for such excellent and very constructive cooperation on this important report.
In future, under this report, those countries with very restrictive systems ought to take a very close look at the examples of other countries in order also to observe the positive effects.
Since, when so many people are waiting for transplants, that must be a signal to us, not only to create more opportunities and greater accessibility, but also to guarantee quality, safety and accessibility.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mrs Jiménez García-Herrera, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish are the champions of Europe at football, most people know that, and it is nice, but it is not as important as the fact that the Spanish are also the champions of Europe when it comes to organ transplantation.
In other European countries organs, I am sorry to say, are lost, not because the family members were unwilling to give consent, or because the victim does not have a donor card or had stated that they did not want to donate their organs, but, for most organs in Europe that are lost, it is quite simply due to the fact that the doctors do not have enough time to deal with this matter.
We have heard the figures today: 55-60 000 Europeans are waiting for the opportunity to be able to tell us in future, like Ernst Höger, that 'life is beautiful'.
I would just like to sum up for a second by saying that we have done an excellent job and that we preferred the ethics of hope to the ethics of prohibition.
There can be no crimes associated with the trade in organs unless there are middlemen and the demand.
For example, Australian organ transplant surgeons have condemned the practice in China of killing prisoners for their organs.
Therefore, promoting donation as the main source of transplantation, as well as protecting the data and security of patients, seems to me to be more than enough reason for us to all be together this morning and vote in favour of these two proposals that are extremely important for the European Union.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (DA) Madam President, I hope that no one here ever needs to make use of this directive.
Twenty seven EU countries means 27 different sets of regulations plus people from countries outside the Union who have been illegally let in and who, because they are poor, are willing to donate a kidney for very little money.
We therefore need coordination at EU level and, of course, we must ensure that both recipient and donor receive the best possible treatment.
Thus, we are in a situation where we have 27 different statutory regulations and insurance schemes, which does not exactly promote opportunities for cooperation.
It is an extremely complicated subject that we are talking about, because we must also ensure that the quality of organs is a top priority.
We need to be sure that interventions are carried out safely, in other words, that the personnel responsible for the operation itself are well trained in their field and that the highest level of monitoring is carried out. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Jiménez García-Herrera, I would first of all like to highlight the work done by the rapporteurs - Mr Mikolášik and Mr Perello - and all the work that they have done to reach the best possible compromise for a transplant policy in the European Union.
Currently, 60 000 people - European men and women - are awaiting transplants in Europe and, according to our estimates, 12 people die every day for want of a transplant, because, while 81% of Europeans say they are in favour of organ donor cards, only 12% possess one.
In order to avoid illegal practices, living donations must be considered only as a last resort, when there are no other possible options, such as post-mortem donation.
Parliament emphasises, however, that living donations must be considered complementary to donations after death.
This would not only fly in the face of our aims ... (The President cut off the speaker) (BG) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a topic which, by its very nature, directly affects a limited number of people, compared to other issues which are important to health care in the European Union.
Madam President, we all support directives that help save lives, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work with a report that seems simple in principle but is, in fact, complicated in detail.
In the area of post-mortem donations, there are issues of a delicate nature to be addressed, such as ethics, the deceased family's positioning, the question of whether donor cards should be compulsory and, indeed, whether there should be a European donor card.
It is therefore important that we adopt this proposal now.
In the matter of transplantation, society must be sure that everything is being done in accordance with the law, transparently and without any hidden interests, and that this noble medical procedure is not being used as a cover for considerations other than that of saving human life.
Common binding standards on the quality and safety of donations in the 27 Member States absolutely must be adopted in order to improve cross-border exchanges and to increase donation rates.
We must guarantee the principle of free transplants and prevent any pressure from being put on potential donors.
We must therefore encourage those patients who want to freely give their organs to save lives, because the risks of rejection during these transplants are significantly lower than in cases where the organs come from deceased donors.
The donation of organs from living donors must, above all, be very strictly regulated, and that is the only solution. (MT) Madam President, as the Commissioner mentioned, there are around 56 000 persons awaiting organ transplant surgery within the European Union.
The measures will not directly add to the number of organs to be transplanted, yet the implementation of common practices within the Member States should increase the level of trust and reliability between these countries which, in turn, will lead to an increase in organ donations both within and amongst countries.
To conclude, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Dalli and the rapporteurs for the good work carried out on this sensitive topic. (RO) Transplants and organ donation save and prolong the lives of thousands of European citizens every year.
This means that every year, we carry out 60 kidney transplants and 30 liver transplants for every million inhabitants.
In the United States, the figures are 54.7 and 21.4; in Europe, they are 35.1 and 13.4; and in Spain they are 48.8 and 24.6.
In different Member States of the European Union, very different methods are used for identifying potential donors.
In some countries, written consent is required from a potential donor, while in other countries, it is assumed that if there is no objection, an organ can be taken from that donor.
A situation in which organs can be taken from those who did not express their objection to this would be enough to create a radical increase in the number of donors. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than 55 000 patients are on waiting lists for an organ transplant.
Organ transplantation - yes, of course, but truly only voluntarily, with a declaration of consent and without payment, in order to be able to counter the illegal trade in organs and, of course, based on the highest possible quality and safety for those involved. (PL) I am pleased that the question of organ donation and transplantation is a priority for the Spanish Presidency, because it can be said that this is a matter of life and death.
I would also like to congratulate the Spanish Presidency on its firm support for this issue as one of its priorities.
For this reason - I will now conclude - the adoption of this report is essential for improving this situation in all the Member States (IT) Madam President, Mrs Jiménez García-Herrera, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these days, people are often denied the right to have a transplant.
Thus, there cannot be any illegal trade in organs because no trade in organs is allowed.
In the latter context, traceability will go some way to redress this, but this depends on the enforcement exercised in Member States.
Analytical Table of the Amendments on the Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation - C6-0480/2008 - Rapporteur: Mr Miroslav Mikolášik (PPE) Amendments: Directly acceptable: amendment 106 (Text as a whole, Block No 1, compromise amendment).
In my opinion, more organs and more successfully cured patients will mean that more people return to a full life, to their families and to new jobs or back to existing jobs, making a fundamental change to their quality of life.
I do not know if we have done everything too well or if we could have done something more, but I do want to clear up any doubts that may have arisen.
Therefore - and I will conclude now - I do not know if we have succeeded in saving everyone's conscience with the work we have done, but I am totally convinced that we are going to save many lives.
Now, the organ can be given to one of the 56 000 EU citizens awaiting transplants.
