Future of the CAP after 2013 (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Lyon, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2013.
I believe that tackling climate change and making our agriculture production more sustainable are objectives which must be at the heart of the reform going forward.
Fairness also has to be a key driver of the reform: fair to old Member States as well as new Member States in the distribution of direct payment envelopes across the EU; a fair distribution among farmers and Member States by bringing historic payments to an end by 2020.
It cannot be right and justified to continue making payments based on how you farmed some 10 years ago.
In conclusion, I am confident that this House will back our reforms, modernising the CAP, setting it on a new course to deliver on the new challenges of the 21st century.
By backing this report the Parliament will shape the debate, set the agenda, and I would invite the Commissioner to use our ideas to inform his proposals on CAP reform when he publishes them in November this year.
I would like to sincerely thank Mr Lyon for the report that he is putting to the vote today, as well as his whole team and, of course, all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, who have tabled amendments that have enriched the text.
I also welcome this report's call and the will for better communication in respect of the common agricultural policy and the future of agriculture in the European Union.
These are elements that will be reflected not only in the reform of the CAP, but also in other initiatives that the Commission will propose.
I also read very carefully your proposals on the future of direct payments as an instrument not only to guarantee the stability of farmers' income, but also to ensure a minimum level of provision of public goods.
I also noted the suggestion that the criteria governing the distribution of these direct payments should be reviewed, starting from this new criterion but also in order to ensure a more even distribution among the various Member States, regions and categories of farmers, with account also being taken of the specific nature of farming in less-favoured and difficult areas.
From this point of view I think that the focus on the markets is fully compatible with the improvement of market management mechanisms as a means of ensuring, more specifically, that these markets can function properly without affecting, as I was saying, the achievement of objectives aimed at maintaining agriculture throughout Europe and preserving the diversity of our farming.
I think that food production is an important objective of the CAP.
In agricultural production we can take into account these two aspects: food production and the production of public goods, with aspects which are remunerated from the markets and others which are not and which must be supported from the public purse.
In order to ensure better management of the resources and means at our disposal under the common agricultural policy, I think that we need these two pillars, which must, of course, be complementary and which must have more clearly defined objectives.
As far as cross-compliance is concerned, I think that it has had a positive impact on direct payments.
That said, I think that environmental cross-compliance linked to baseline direct payments is also a good starting point to later clearly define the other measures which stimulate the production of public goods.
We can therefore have a restructuring of these farms which is closely connected with a move towards the markets, but without a shift towards a single model of agriculture, so that we are able to maintain diversity in agriculture.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Lyon report has the merit of having clearly defined a set of common agricultural policy objectives that is much broader than in the past and which is in line with the EU 2020 strategy.
The forceful point is made that we need resources commensurate with the much broader objectives that have been set, not least to achieve public objectives and the objective of having public goods without the market.
It is made clear, again by the report, that the resources earmarked for the new common agricultural policy must be in line with those enjoyed up to now by that policy.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (FR) Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Lyon, as well as the team of shadow rapporteurs, who I feel cooperated effectively with him on this report.
It was written following the raw material crises of 2007 and 2008 and following the farming crisis of 2009, which taught us that liberalism is not the solution for agriculture.
Our agriculture is firstly intended to provide - to guarantee - food security for 450 million Europeans, but we must also take our place on solvent markets.
It is clear that the conditions that have prevailed since the middle of the 20th century have evolved, that techniques have evolved and must still evolve, that they must change, and that agricultural policy instruments must also evolve.
Agriculture must be supported in this evolution.
It is clearly our wish to give hope back to the 14 million farmers and their families, in particular to ensure the replacement of the 4.5 million farmers who, today, are over 60 and who are going to leave the profession.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lyon, first of all I would like to thank you for the report.
It is important that Parliament should send out a strong message indicating our intention to continue pursuing a common agricultural policy.
It is important that in future we designate the direct payments from the first pillar in line with a sustainable agricultural policy and that we have a strong second pillar for the development of rural areas, with a focus on jobs.
While I and my group will be voting in favour of this report, I wish to make it clear that there are some parts which we do not agree with.
However, on balance I believe it to be a good starting point for a comprehensive debate on the issue and shows that the Committee can work together.
We have a major responsibility as a Parliament to ensure that any future reform ensures that agriculture as an industry can compete and can survive in the future.
I am also grateful to Commissioner Cioloş, since he and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have certainly established a good working relationship, and that is very important.
However, in order to continue to be able to carry out their activities, our farmers are asking us to provide greater safeguards against price volatility and to keep allocating direct aid.
It is also essential that we maintain the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
The distribution of CAP funds must take into consideration the cost of production in Member States.
The definition of fair must be examined in greater detail by the Commission and area-based payment which would result in farmers in Northern Ireland receiving less in their single farm payment would be detrimental to an industry where many farmers are on the verge of viability.
We have managed to reach a good compromise that can be supported by many groups and I am hopeful that this compromise will be supported by a broad majority in the vote to take place at noon today.
The European agricultural sector produces high-quality food, protects vital rural areas and many jobs, maintains and promotes our cultural landscape and biodiversity and can make a contribution to conserving fossil fuels through the production of renewable raw materials and energy.
The first pillar acts as a balance to the constraints under which European agriculture operates in relation to other agricultural regions in the world, while the second pillar involves the creation of a catalogue of measures to enable the 27 Member States to ensure that agriculture receives additional aid to enable it to fulfil its functions.
It incorporates the condemnation of historical criteria for allocating aid to farmers and their replacement with new criteria, essentially based around the environment, the intention to move towards fairer distribution of support among farmers and Member States, as has been reiterated by several of my colleagues, and acknowledges that market regulation and risk and crisis management must have appropriate policy instruments.
It also includes a new system of support based on compensation for the provision of services and public goods that benefit the whole of society but receive no remuneration from the market.
I would be grateful for a few words from our Commissioner about how he proposes to defend that budget going forward, not least because a number of Member States, including Britain, want to end direct payments to farmers.
To quote the motto of the French Revolution: 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity' - we do not have a problem with liberty, but with equality and fraternity the need is greater, and I appeal to fellow Members from the old Member States to help solve this problem in a spirit of equality and fraternity. (GA) Mr President, I also welcome this important report, although I am a bit disappointed that it fails to lay out a vision for the common agricultural policy (CAP) which will stop the depopulation of the countryside and ensure that active farmers can provide the goods and services demanded by society.
It is necessary to amend the CAP to help those who need it urgently.
A proper budget for the CAP is also important, and I express my thanks to Mr Lyon. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lyon, ladies and gentlemen, in a context such as this, farms need strong support in order to innovate and make progress.
The Commission must commit itself to defining a budget that is sufficient to achieve these objectives.
I believe that the Commission must take a supportive and flexible approach to helping young farmers.
An information policy must also be launched, starting in schools and universities, in order to promote a ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) I share the sentiments of my fellow Members who highlighted the quality of this report and the wide consensus it received in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The CAP must continue to be based on its two pillars.
Abolishing the rural development pillar would be a mistake and it would slow down the modernisation of agriculture in the whole of Europe, but in the new Member States most of all.
European farmers are obliged to comply with the highest quality standards, which is reflected in the quality of the food which Europeans eat and in our global competitiveness.
I believe that the vote on this report will enable Parliament to give the Council and Commission a clear, unambiguous signal regarding our position as representatives of Europe's citizens. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the next few years the challenges accompanying the development of the European agricultural system will be huge: the growing demand for food will have to be met through the sustainable use of natural resources, with a parallel increase in the level of environmental performance.
This outlook, which strengthens the relationship between the agricultural sector and the production of public goods, gives agriculture a new strategic importance: the creation of the future common agricultural policy (CAP) today represents the solution to these major challenges facing our society, and the policy will play a crucial role in responding to what is already a food crisis.
Therefore, it is a case of producing more while polluting less: this is the difficult objective that European agriculture will have to fulfil over the next few years.
The CAP has many challenges facing it and in an enlarged Europe it is essential that the EU maintains a strong and properly resourced agricultural policy that will deliver for farmers, rural communities and society and will ensure food security.
The common agricultural policy must remain a common European policy.
Over the past 50 years the CAP has increased productivity, contributed to a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, secured the availability of supplies and provided consumers with quality food at reasonable prices.
All imports to the EU must be guaranteed to be produced to the same quality and standard as EU products.
We also need to ensure a level playing field, fair competition and the future viability of European agriculture. - (CS) The greatest injustice of the current common agricultural policy consists in the fact that subsidies are portioned out in an unequal and unfair way between the old and new Member States.
This year, farmers in the new Member States, which joined in 2004, will receive only 70% of what farmers receive in the old European Union of the so-called fifteen.
I therefore support Amendment 6, which asks for this aim to be achieved as soon as possible, and I hope that my fellow Members will support it. (EL) Mr President, the common agricultural policy was designed to safeguard Europe's independence in food production.
In the 1970s, nearly 70% of the EU budget was spent on agriculture.
We have witnessed distressing shortage situations in the past, which is why the European Parliament should make security of supply based on EU production the main objective of the next reform, without leaving aside other contributions, such as the fight against climate change. (FR) Mr President, I understand that you had a short and happy night.
Commissioner, I would like to finish with a simple idea.
We are now in the European Union.
The reformed common agricultural policy is going to have a vitally important role to play in confronting issues like food security, market volatility and climate change, but I want to mention three other principles which, to my mind, are no less important.
In my constituency of Wales the existing schemes and pillar two will be replaced by the Glastir scheme that focuses on climate change objectives and carbon sequestration.
If Welsh farmers are unhappy about Glastir arrangements, will they be offered sensible alternatives, or will they be penalised in any way for not adopting the scheme?
Commissioner, the Lyon report recognises the role that agriculture, as a strategic sector, can play in contributing to the priorities of the new Europe 2020 strategy.
However, growing market volatility, combined with the requirements of the Union's international commitments, may have a negative impact on farmers' incomes.
Direct aid must be financed entirely from the Union budget, and the CAP needs to have a budgetary allocation adequate for facing the new challenges and objectives ahead of it, at a level at least equal to that for 2013, as further cuts could compromise its effectiveness.
They have produced a report that we in Parliament can endorse, and which will be a positive signal for bringing to an end uncertainty for European farmers.
As the issue seems to me to be very important - the evidence being the exceptional number of people who have asked to speak - we are going to allow 10 to speak, double the number for which there is provision. (PL) Mr President, Mr Cioloş, departure from the historical method of establishing levels of support and the introduction of a new and fair distribution of resources from the common agricultural policy between farmers from the whole of the European Union, without distinguishing between 'old' and 'new' Member States, is one of the most important challenges for the post-2013 common agricultural policy.
Of course, there are certain ideas, but we do not have any certainty ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) I wish to congratulate the rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs and all those involved in this project which is particularly important to the future of the CAP.
In a globalised world the European Union, with its Community market, must take uniform action in order to guarantee the security of food supply and promote renewable resources.
It must also combat climate change and step up its research efforts in order to make the best use of the opportunities that research can offer.
I feel that it is crucial for us to maintain the common agricultural policy's two pillars, making a clear distinction where we have Pillar I, which is strong enough to ensure a fair standard of living for farmers in all Member States... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, first of all I would obviously like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Lyon, with whom I believe we all worked on the basis of mutual agreement to try to move forward, and I would like to say briefly, in just a few words, that the evidence is there for us to see.
That is how we can reward our farmers. (SK) We all know that the European Union's common agricultural policy is a very complex and sensitive issue.
In my opinion, we should therefore support Amendment 6 of the submitted report, which will help to bring justice to the support mechanism for European agricultural production. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, agricultural policy needs a coherent framework.
This must strengthen the EU as a whole, while also taking regional differences into account.
The second factor is particularly important for my home country, Austria, when one considers specific environmental and investment programmes.
There are some enormous challenges facing agricultural policy.
Estimates indicate that the world's population will grow to 9 billion people, while at the same time we find ourselves confronted with the effects of climate change, such as water shortages and drought.
I particularly welcome the emphasis on encouraging young people into agriculture, which is absolutely vital; that there should be no renationalisation of the CAP; that the Commissioner said the two pillars should be maintained because without pillar one there will be no need for pillar two since it would be unprofitable to farm and therefore public goods would not be guaranteed; and, as Mrs Dodd said, we need to look at what we mean by 'fair', particularly taking into account varying costs and purchasing power right across the Union.
I think it is very important for farmers right now that a clear signal be sent to them as to what is likely to happen, so that they will not be left to wild speculation, not knowing whether to buy or sell stock based on the historic model.
We want the CAP to be more legitimate in terms of public resources pledged and accepted by the taxpayer, fairer in the distribution of European funds among the 27 Member States and among farmers, and more effective in the proper use of public money.
In Europe agricultural employment has fallen by 25% in less than 10 years, with the loss of almost 4 million jobs.
Therefore, the new CAP will have to guarantee at least the same level of funding as in the past.
The Lyon report contains some highly positive elements, measures to curb price volatility, to support the sector, to guarantee farmers a fair income and to guarantee the current ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Mr President, we also advocate a strong common agricultural policy, aimed not only at farmers but also at the more than 500 million citizens of Europe, which is equipped with an ambitious budget capable of addressing the growing challenges that we face and, above all, which is in operation in all the European regions.
Ensuring that this comes about is crucial to the Azores, where agriculture is an irreplaceable pillar of the sustainable development model.
Mrs McGuinness, I assure you that I have been looking at you nearly the entire time, and that I have seen you asking for the floor.
The time for the groups was shared between Members so that everyone could have a minute, but almost nobody has spoken for less than a minute and a half, and so there is no way of responding positively, as we would all like, to anyone who wishes to contribute outside the time allocated to their corresponding groups.
We understand your time constraints, naturally, but I hope you will understand us too.
This is a very important issue.
We have fallen quite far behind, and there could have been two or three contributions during the time that we have spent on this issue.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I am not sure if many questions have been asked.
In any case, the main thing I have taken from this debate is that we need a common agricultural policy, an agricultural policy that must be a Community policy, and that we also need a budget which must be commensurate with the objectives that we set for agriculture.
We must take this diversity into account so that, in the regions where it expresses itself, these different types of agriculture can help achieve objectives not just regarding market supply, production and security of market supply, but also a move towards better recognition of the environment, the management of natural resources, and economic development capacities in rural areas.
We must reflect on how agriculture and the agri-food sector can contribute to this.
I also took on board the fact that all of these thoughts on the future of the common agricultural policy must also help encourage young people, must give prospects to young people who want to become established, who want to invest in agriculture, so that agricultural activity is also an activity of the future and so that we can achieve our objectives.
We need a common agricultural policy for the entire European Union and, of course, a common agricultural policy which does not prevent the other regions of the world from developing their own agriculture.
A strong budget: yes, absolutely; fair to old and new Member States: so many Members raised that as an issue, and it is an issue we need to address.
I will be putting this issue to the Bureau, as it is one that needs clarifying.
We have a situation where Members have been indignant that they were not allowed to speak, but have not stayed to hear either the Commissioner or the rapporteur explain and set out the conclusions.
Written statements (Rule 149) The common agricultural policy (CAP) is one of the European Union's most important policies, when we consider that agricultural expenditure accounts for around 43% of the EU budget.
Under Article 33 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the objectives of the CAP are to guarantee reasonable prices for European consumers and a fair standard of living for farmers.
The recent economic and financial crisis resulted in an average 12.2% reduction in farmers' incomes between 2008 and 2009, stricter conditions on accessing credit and an increase in the unemployment rate in rural areas.
The Food and Agriculture Organisation estimates that, by 2050, the world population will increase from the current 6 billion to 9 billion, and that doubling the demand for food will require an associated increase in global food production.
Therefore, food security will be the main challenge for future agriculture, and the onus will be on the Union to continue to guarantee it for the sake of European citizens.
However, I call on the Commission to put forward some fairer criteria so that farmers can be the real beneficiaries of the CAP.
in writing. - The common agricultural policy (CAP) has the potential to offer solutions to many of the problems currently affecting European farms, and this is obvious in no EU Member State more than in Ireland, where there is an equal commitment to both secure a fair and full CAP agreement and to move forward by implementing the changes necessary in 21st century farming.
However, in order to secure the trust and commitment of Europe's agricultural community, the new CAP needs to offer stability to farmers and a fair price, as is currently provided, for the goods which they produce.
Europe will still need an effective and common agricultural policy after 2013.
It is therefore vital to ensure that direct payments do not decrease.
The European food trade is much more concentrated than the food processing industry or agricultural production.
However, this requires an exemption from the stringent EU competition rules in agriculture.
The only way that we can maintain the European agricultural model is to ensure the production of our food to the highest standards in the first pillar and, in the second pillar, to provide good prospects for the development of rural areas, and job creation and infrastructure for farmers and non-farmers, male and female and, in particular, for young people. 3.
New objectives have arisen for us in terms of market orientation, product safety, animal protection and the need for environmental protection and biodiversity as a result of climate change.
in writing. - (LV) This resolution involves a transition from area as the historical basis for determining direct support payments in the next financial planning period.
in writing. - I welcome this report which is the first step in examining the shape and nature of the common agricultural policy (CAP) post 2013.
This report reaffirms that there will be a CAP post 2013, that it should remain a common policy and that its budget should be at least maintained at current levels.
The CAP post 2013 should support active producers and reward them for the food they produce and the many public goods they provide to society - including high animal welfare and environmental standards.
It is essential that there should be a strong focus on young generations in the CAP post 2013 so to provide for the development of agriculture in an innovative and efficient way.
I believe that this has already allowed us to create a good basis for discussion for the near future.
It is true that we will only begin to taste the fruit of these laws much later, perhaps ten years later.
The report is a good basis for further discussions.
Many ideas from my group have been worked into the report before us, and now we have a very good result.
In my opinion, this debate goes in the right direction.
The development of rural areas plays an ever greater role.
In order to prevent the obliteration and desertification of our agriculture, we must develop further instruments that will stop the rural exodus.
This means that the EU acquired a new agricultural population of 7 million people in addition to the 6 million it had before 2004.
At the time of accession, new Member States anticipated that, in time, their farmers would receive the same level of support from the CAP as farmers in the old Member States.
However, this can only be achieved if the resources dedicated to agricultural policy are not reduced after 2013.
The EU must take into consideration the different situations and needs of Member States, as European agriculture will only promote the interests of Member States, farmers and citizens alike if resources are not distributed unfairly due to differences in modernisation levels.
I believe that only a major reform can save the common agricultural policy.
This will further increase the gap between the EU15 and the 12 new Member States.
The achievement of 'green' agriculture in Europe and the production of environmental public goods require new investments, especially in the new Member States.
A strong second pillar is an opportunity to help young farmers make a start in agriculture as well as to improve quality of life, activate society and improve the situation of women in rural areas.
