Passenger Name Record (PNR) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the Passenger Name Record (PNR).
According to the Treaty of Lisbon, it is for Parliament to decide whether or not to approve these agreements, which determine the conditions under which PNR data on passengers on aircraft flying from the European Union can be shared with third countries.
Consequently, the Presidency cannot, at the moment, adopt a position on the content of a future general scheme for the data of passengers who are on a list to travel outside the European Union until the Commission proposes a directive on the use of such data and there is a debate with this Parliament under the codecision procedure, which is the procedure we have had since the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force on 1 December last year.
To ensure that basic principles of data protection are respected and that PNR data is only used for specific law enforcement purposes, the EU has signed agreements with a number of countries on the transfer and the use of PNR data.
With your resolution, you propose to postpone the vote on the consent and you call upon the Commission to propose a series of requirements for all PNR agreements with third countries.
In your resolution, you also refer to the PNR agreement with Canada.
These documents expired on 22 September last year and a new agreement should therefore be renegotiated with Canada.
However, this does not diminish the level of protection of PNR data transferred to Canada.
I would like to thank the rapporteur Ms Sophia in 't Veld and the other political groups for their constructive approach on these files, under which the agreements with the US and Australia remain provisionally applicable until their renegotiation.
The package will consist firstly of a communication on a global external PNR strategy, including a set of general requirements that any PNR agreement with a third country should observe; secondly, two negotiating directives for the renegotiation of the US and Australia PNR agreements, and negotiating directives for a new agreement with Canada; and, thirdly, a new Commission EU PNR proposal based on an impact assessment.
I think it is good that we are taking a decision on the agreement on PNR data, in order to develop a basic model for all future agreements of this sort and to recommend a negotiating framework to the Commission, so that it takes into account our own ideas on data protection.
PNR covers 19 individual pieces of data.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, as rapporteur I would first of all like to thank the shadows for their excellent, pleasant and fruitful cooperation resulting in a joint resolution.
Today we consider the request for consent by the Council on the two agreements with the US and Australia.
Any use of PNR must be in line with EU data protection standards.
I do not know whether you have ever seen the film Minority Report.
I do not want to irritate you just now by reviewing this great and still relevant film in even more detail, but the uncontrolled access to all passenger information of all people worldwide for the purpose of profiling and nothing else has been going on in the USA at least since 11 September 2001.
In our opinion, the agreements negotiated by the EU with the USA and Australia on access to Passenger Name Record data are a serious violation of European fundamental rights and provisions of the rule of law, and as the European Parliament we have mentioned this on several occasions, as Mrs in 't Veld has already made clear.
As the European Parliament, we cannot support these, but call on the Commission and the Council to lay a new mandate on the table that puts the protection of citizens worldwide before such a pre-crime system.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs in 't Veld, for her commitment to the protection of privacy and the rule of law in this matter as in many others.
Naturally, this affects our rights - not only the right to free movement, but also those under signed international conventions on our political and civil rights.
It concerns freedom of movement, but it also concerns international conventions and our civil rights. (MT) I would like to make three brief comments.
First of all, we have just been talking about the SWIFT agreement and we said that it taught us certain lessons.
Secondly, is this agreement important or not?
Our fight against terrorism is important for our citizens' security and we carry great responsibility in this regard.
A few weeks ago, I was able to see for myself in the PNR centre in Washington how a whole team is working round the clock to reduce an initial rough list of approximately 5 000 people each day to a small list of a handful of people to be denied access to US territory.
For us, data protection must be activated, otherwise this agreement is a non-starter. (PT) Mr López Garrido, Mrs Malmström, we have shown our concern about the transfer of PNR data to the United States.
The agreements we have concluded with both Australia and Canada have always been more acceptable and more in line with the principle of proportionality, as they allow for limited access in scope, in time and in the number of details, as well as oversight by a judicial authority.
Mr López Garrido, Mrs Malmström, in my opinion, any agreement will only be acceptable if guarantees of a suitable level of data protection are given, respecting the principles of necessity and proportionality and the EU rules in force.
Any personal data must be processed in accordance with Directives 46/1995, 58/2002 and 24/2006.
One last point, Madam President: how can European citizens give their consent and, in particular, under what conditions?
Madam President, I would like to make three comments by way of a conclusion on our part in this important debate.
I think the debate we had on SWIFT may clarify matters.
Fundamental rights are indivisible, and in this case we are dealing with something that could jeopardise fundamental rights, so I believe we have to act with the same care that we talked about in the previous debate.
As a general thought, it does not seem to me that security and freedom are two opposed principles or, in other words, that it is a kind of zero-sum game and that as we provide greater security, we will have less freedom, or as we give greater protection to fundamental rights and freedoms and are fundamentalist in protecting our fundamental rights, we will have less security.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, yes, I have seen the film Minority Report.
I think this has been a very interesting and constructive debate and I agree that there are similarities with the SWIFT or TFTP discussions.
The negotiations on the TFTP with our American friends will also give us important experiences that we can bring into the PNR discussions.
As you know, I had already promised Parliament during the course of my hearing that I would carry out an overview of all the anti-terrorist measures we have at our disposal in the European Union - to identify them, have a list of them and discuss them with Parliament - and also of the overall architecture of all our data information and sharing systems, so that we have this in our mind when we start our work.
I think this is important and I think it will increase the transparency and depth of our discussions.
