Strategic goals and recommendations for the EU's maritime transport policy until 2018 (debate) The next item is the report by Mr van Dalen, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on strategic goals and recommendations for the EU's maritime transport policy until 2018 -.
The first key point is the importance of the sector.
After all, what we do not want are flags and ships that circumvent minimum requirements for safety and social standards.
The population of Europe is increasingly an ageing one and so we need to do a lot more for our youth.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this politically very important issue.
The Maritime Transport Strategy until 2018 has been very much used in preparing the Commission's Europe 2020 strategy, and the process for a new White Paper on Transport is on its way.
The Commission services have also started working on a Social Agenda for maritime transport as well as on the EU e-Maritime initiative, both of which the Commission intends to present in 2011.
I would also like to answer the point on State aid guidelines for shipping in 2010.
On the one hand, the 2004 guidelines will not 'expire' in 2011, even if the Commission said that they 'will be reviewed within seven years'.
The report we are debating today, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the competent committee, is a detailed report which moves in the right direction, and I consider that, even as it now stands, without changes and amendments, the text responds fully to the need for us to move along a specific fixed line in the direction I referred to earlier.
The first challenge is the need to increase competition.
Through the European Maritime Transport Strategy 2018, we are creating the framework to make the European maritime economy more competitive at international level, and in this strategy we have determined, firstly, that we want this framework to be set up on the basis of ecological standards and, secondly, that we want sensible global social standards for high quality shipping.
It offers positive paths to allow maritime transport to develop between now and 2018 in the best possible conditions.
The rejection of the directive on the liberalisation of port services by Parliament in 2006 represents, in my view, the cornerstone of any European maritime transport strategy.
The problem is far greater in the waters around Indonesia.
In these conditions, European professionals in this sector prefer to be employed by maritime companies or shipowners in Dubai or China, while European ships are crewed by Filipino and Indian seafarers.
Maritime institutions in Member States must work together much more closely in order to harmonise their training programmes, as well as offer opportunities for paid work placements and exchanges of experience with European maritime companies.
He also points to the fact that we have to compete in a global market, and that we therefore have to pay attention to the competitiveness of our maritime sector while, at the same time, strive for more sustainable transport.
In other words, we must counteract the risk of deflagging.
Maritime transport is a strategic sector for the European Union in several respects, primarily because of the role it plays in growth and employment, its international dimension and its environmental and sustainable development aspects.
The link between the ports of Rotterdam and Constanţa through the Rhine corridor, the Main Canal and River Danube cuts the distance between the North Sea and Black Sea by 4 000 kilometres.
This is illustrated, for instance, in the interconnection between economic, social, environmental and political factors in the case of the River Danube and the Black Sea. (RO) The first question concerns a report we are asking the European Commission for about the effectiveness of the Marco Polo programme.
It needs our support and I believe that the information and technical facilities which it has not only help shipping and maritime transport in the Union, but can also help in the other sectors referred to a moment ago, especially as regards, for example, information which can also be evaluated and used by Frontex.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, thank you and thank you to all the members.
The environmental performance of our ships must improve a great deal and, in my report, I set out a number of options in that regard, in particular, levying a charge on bunker fuel which has a poor environmental profile.
On the other hand, however, increasingly strong competition from third countries can be observed, and particularly from what are known as flags of convenience.
Mr President, Mr van Dalen, ladies and gentlemen, 41% of fleets worldwide belong to Europe, yet unfortunately, some other countries give more support to their fleets and shipowners than do the European Union Member States, or impose less stringent requirements on the safety and environmental friendliness of ships.
We must do everything to guarantee the safety of our sailors, passengers, ships and goods but, at the same time, we cannot solve this problem with our eyes closed.
