EC-Comoros fisheries agreement - Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea - Fisheries - transitional technical measures - Imports from Greenland of fishery products (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Capoulas Santos on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries relating to the recommendation on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Partnership Agreement in the fisheries sector between the European Community and the Union of the Comoros. (15572/2010 - C7-0020/2011 - 2010/0287(NLE)) and the report by Mr Ferreira on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 861/2006 of 22 May 2006 establishing Community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the Law of the Sea - C7-0107/2010 - and the report (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=REPORT&amp;reference=A7-2011-0024&amp;language=DE" \t "_blank" ) by Mrs Grelier on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1288/2009 establishing transitional technical measures from 1 January 2010 to 30 June 2011 - C7-0282/2010 - and the report (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=REPORT&amp;reference=A7-2011-0057&amp;language=DE" \t "_blank" ) by Mrs Fraga Estévez on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on the proposal for a Council decision laying down rules for imports into the European Union from Greenland of fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and by-products thereof -.
It is an agreement concerning 70 European boats' right of access to Comorian waters in exchange for a financial contribution of around EUR 600 000 per year.
Around half of this amount should be channelled into developing the fisheries sector on which around 30 000 of the 800 000 inhabitants of the country depend; it should be recalled that the country has practically no other resources.
I am referring to the amendment seeking to permit fishing for hake and monkfish with trammel nets to continue in areas 8, 9 and 10, along the Portuguese coast, which was banned by Commission decision from 1 October 2010, as I believe that this has an adverse effect on certain populations of sharks caught with them, although no scientific study has been carried out to verify this.
It constitutes an important European Union financial instrument in the area of fisheries.
However, I would like to draw attention at this point to the three additional amendments that we are proposing to this report.
All of this comes in a framework where Member States and their control authorities play and should continue to play a key role in the steering and implementation of control measures within their waters.
In the light of this background and these issues, I propose that we agree to the Commission's request for an extension until 31 December 2012, without substantially changing the current technical measures except for the addition regarding the permissible mesh size for boarfish.
To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's new proposal should be made within a reasonable timescale for a new regulation to come into force on 1 January 2013, which is when the new CFP comes into force.
The technical measures to which my report relates are transitional and have only been approved as such.
One of the conditions for including Greenland in the single market import arrangements is that it should accept EU health rules, and this does not pose a problem in the least.
Despite the trade in fisheries products being subject to the common organisation of the market, the Commission, using the need for compliance with health rules as an excuse, tabled its proposal based on Article 203 of the Treaty, which meant a simple and straightforward consultation procedure for us.
In that opinion, the view of the Committee on Legal Affairs was - and I am quoting directly from the text - that 'the purpose of the proposed decision is to require Greenland to transpose EU health rules as a condition for the application of the EU internal market rules as regards fisheries', as specified in Article 3 of the proposal itself, which guarantees that the agreement's rules will be adapted to the applicable rules established in the Union as regards animal health and food safety, as well as the common organisation of the market in fishery products.
Consequently, the Committee on Legal Affairs came to the unanimous decision that Articles 204 and 43(2) of the Treaty, along with Protocol No 34, which includes specific arrangements and procedures for products subject to the common organisation of the market in fishery products in Greenland, should form the legal basis for the proposal.
All, then, that remains is for me to tell the Commission and the Council - which I believe to be absent - that they now have an opportunity to correct and recognise the new legal basis, and, therefore, to consider this the first reading, as we will be doing tomorrow.
Regarding the agreement between the European Union and the Union of Comoros, I would like to thank Mr Capoulas Santos for his work as rapporteur and am pleased to see the very strong support of the Fisheries Committee as a whole on the substance of this proposal.
It is very important to maintain bilateral relationships with this region's countries and Comoros, in this case, in connection with the participation of the European Union in regional fisheries organisations such as the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission.
At present, the European Union has four active fisheries partnership agreements in the Indian Ocean - namely with Seychelles, Madagascar, Mozambique and this one with the Union of Comoros.
I would like to underline that it is very important for the Commission and the European Union to reach an agreement with Comoros, as the agreement plays an important role in terms of the presence of our fleet in the region.
The Commission is sending the European Parliament the same information as to the Council and at the same time.
I would, however, like to underline here that my personal attitude and that of the services is very positive and I would like to facilitate your participation.
After a successful informal trialogue held on 2 March, a consensus was achieved on the outstanding points, so the Commission hopes that a first reading agreement can be achieved on this proposal.
I would like to recall that this proposal rationalises the regulation on the so-called second financial instrument.
This regulation covers spending in international relations, governance, data collection and scientific advice, and also control and enforcement.
The purpose of this proposal is to extend existing transitional technical measures until the end of 2012.
Finally, I would like to say a few words on the report concerning the imports of fishery products from Greenland, and I would like here to thank the Chair of the Fisheries Committee, Mrs Fraga, for her work.
This is entirely in line with our commitment in the agreement of 2006 to contribute to the development of Greenland and to cooperate in the area of food safety.
The Commission is very pleased to note that all parties concerned - the Member States in Council with unanimity, Greenland, the European Parliament and also the national parliaments of the Member States - are prepared to deliver on this commitment and support the proposal.
Although we remain convinced that the legal basis of our proposal is correct, we would accept - and I would like to clarify this - the Council adopting the position of Parliament.
This is our first priority, so I am here to say that I would like to facilitate the work which Mrs Fraga has done in order to find a solution.
Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Fisheries and all the rapporteurs for their work.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing four reports in today's debate, and so I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs for their work, and the European Commission for its cooperation.
The new plan was intended to comply with the provisions of the Treaty and to take into account the reform of the common fisheries policy.
The draft was to be put forward in the third quarter of 2011.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Damanaki, ladies and gentlemen, once again we find a whole package of fisheries policies on the agenda.
I refer to the Grelier report on technical measures and the Ferreira report on the second financial instrument.
We shall also be able to vote in favour of the fisheries agreement with the Union of the Comoros, although I do not wish to hide the fact that I would like to see a fundamental realignment of the partnership agreements within the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I want to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the presentation of their reports and, due to the time constraints, I want to confine my remarks to the Grelier report.
These small vessels which I referred to, short of 15 metres, are deprived of earning an income and, even more importantly, these vessels are forced to travel into dangerous waters.
In conclusion, I urge all Members to think about (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation.
According to the assessment, the agreement provided the Union of the Comoros with EUR 2.7 million between 2005 and 2009.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to start by offering my most sincere thanks and congratulations to all the rapporteurs for the work they have put into preparing their reports.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, after 30 years, the destructive practice of discards is to be addressed.
The agreement will give Greenland a good opportunity to sell its fishery products under the rules of the internal market, provided that these products meet the EU's health and safety requirements.
Essentially, I have a very positive opinion of sustainable fisheries agreements, providing sustainability in terms of fish stocks and for fishermen, for the local population and finally sustainability for the EU fishermen who make use of the agreements.
The tendency not to put a ceiling on how much EU vessels may catch in the waters of third countries is damaging and wrong.
It is not good enough for us to pursue a different fisheries policy according to whether we are in our own waters or the waters of a third country.
I would also like to press for us to ensure to a greater extent that the money the EU pays out to third countries in return for concluding fisheries agreements is earmarked in such a way that it definitely benefits the local population. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Damanaki, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Parliament is finally to vote on this issue and would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work.
This is true in particular for the areas of international fishery relations, data collection and scientific studies.
The existing regulations have proven themselves in practice and already allow for some exceptions.
The Member States already make use of the opportunity to avail of co-financing and there is no need for any further incentives.
The Commission prefers to extend the current range of technical measures that are causing discards, including of haddock, for at least another 18 months.
The Commission prefers another 18 months of so-called temporary measures, which have failed to conserve the stocks.
Another 18 months of dumping dead fish back into the sea.
In a well-intentioned attempt to conserve white-fish stocks in this area, the Commission introduced temporary catch composition rules for a period of 12 months at the end of 2009, but these temporary rules have already been rolled over for a further year under a catch-all agreement that extended all EU technical measures for 12 months.
Now the Commission is seeking to roll the rules over yet again to the end of 2012 while it prepares a new framework for technical measures under the CFP reform package.
The unintended consequence of this will mean that a temporary regulation that was introduced for a period of only one year will now run for at least three years, during which time the circumstances in the west of Scotland have changed dramatically, forcing our fishermen to dump good fresh haddock back into the sea, dead.
I hope Parliament will support my amendment tomorrow. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, while I congratulate all four rapporteurs, I would like to focus on just two of the reports being debated.
In 2008, the absence of any agreement on a draft regulation intended to simplify and clarify the EU regulation on conservation of fish resources led to the adoption of the current regulation, which established a set of transitional measures, initially provided for the period between 1 January 2010 and 30 June 2011.
The current intention not to extend the use of trammel nets, and to ban them at a depth of between 200 and 600 metres from 1 October 2010, does not constitute a good example of what has been described.
In this context, I would like to express my complete support for the proposals tabled in this Chamber by the rapporteur to increase the possibility of EU co-financing to 60% in the area of the collection, management and use of basic data, as well as with regard to the collection, management and use of supplementary data.
It affects areas 8, 9 and 10, and is important to overcome these shortcomings that are emerging in the application of a regulation that not only damages fisheries but also local populations. (ES) Mr President, I shall vote for this agreement because it is positive for the European fleet.
Finally, it is positive because it promotes sustainable fishing in the area, it includes a mechanism for objectively analysing fish stocks, and establishes mechanisms for scientific cooperation to that end. (GA) Mr President, I am pleased to say a few words on behalf of my group on this subject and, without doubt, fishing is a controversial topic, one of the most contentious subjects that come before Parliament.
In the meantime, I welcome the proposals here and I accept the Commissioner's words on what will happen. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would congratulate the rapporteurs of these four reports.
The Fraga Estévez report affects the establishment of rules on animal health and food safety for the importing of certain fisheries products and fishing by-products, whether originating in Greenland or in third countries.
We hope that these issues can be resolved, that Greenland will be given the priority that it has and deserves, and that a legislative agreement will be reached. (RO) Mr President, I would like to congratulate all four rapporteurs on all their hard work on this package of fisheries measures.
We are trying to ensure the implementation of the Comoros agreement and to do our best for the local population.
What I can say - as I cannot give you promises I cannot keep - is that we will do our best to accelerate the procedure for a new regulation and also for the implementation of the basic regulation for the reform in order to give the Member States some competences regarding technical measures.
With regard to the case of Greenland, I would like to reiterate that we are here to find a solution on the legal basis of the proposal.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, I would also like to express my thanks for the comments that everyone has made, and for the notable stamina that everyone is still demonstrating at this hour.
I believe that it is possible to go a little further whilst safeguarding this consensus, and in this regard I am thankful for the comments that have been made by a number of Members in support of the proposed amendments.
With regard to the report on transitional technical measures, I would like to highlight - which was also done during a number of speeches - the amendment supported by myself and two other Members, seeking to eliminate negative discrimination with no scientific basis, and I emphasise that there is no scientific basis justifying the negative discrimination against some segments of the Portuguese small-scale fleet that use trammel nets.
For the same reasons, I would like to say in conclusion, Mr President, that we also support the proposals tabled by our Irish and Scottish fellow Members in relation to this same report.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I will do my best to speak more slowly - I promise. (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their generally favourable comments on this report, which also echo the debates that took place during the meetings in the Committee on Fisheries.
The vote on all four reports will take place on 6 April at 12:00.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - With regard to the Grelier report, I voted against my Group on four amendments - Amendment 4, Amendment 5CP, Amendment 6 and Amendment 3.
in writing. - (FI) The reform of the Union's common fisheries policy is one of the most important tasks of this Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) The common fisheries policy (CFP) groups together a series of measures designed by the European Union to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the European fisheries sector.
