Ukraine: the cases of Yulia Tymoshenko and other members of the former government (debate) The next item is the debate on five motions for resolution on Ukraine: the cases of Yulia Tymoshenko and other members of the former government.
However, we currently risk being accused of protecting the leading figures from the previous government with a European political 'screen', including former Prime Minister Tymoshenko personally.
Mr President, I want to say that we are not talking about interference in Ukraine's internal affairs, but about non-interference in the operation of the independent court and prosecutor's office in Ukraine.
author. - (DE) Mr President, unfortunately, we have grounds for expressing strong criticism of the political situation in Ukraine and, in particular, of the means used to curtail the constitutional rights of opposition politicians.
President Yanukovych and his authorities must bring an end to this persecution.
author. - Mr President, the reason we, the Greens, support this joint resolution is that we consider the fight against corruption a fundamental factor in the establishment and consolidation of the rule of law in Ukraine, with a view precisely to deepening its relations with the European Union and enhancing its integration into EU policies.
We are deeply concerned by the use of the justice system for political ends through selective actions aimed solely at members of the opposition.
We call on the authorities in Kiev to ensure that the justice system operates on an impartial, independent and transparent basis by giving the defendants a fair trial.
The Union is being very careful in the way it comments on events in Ukraine.
However, I think that as part of future cooperation between the Union and Ukraine, instruments should be created which, in the longer term, would contribute to a strengthening of the rule of law in Ukraine.
Yulia Tymoshenko and other members of the former government of Ukraine, who had long been the rivals of President Yanukovych, should not be regarded as collectively, or by association, guilty and responsible for what is perceived as a liability in political practice.
And my question to Mr Vigenin, as the Socialist Group has links to Yanukovych's Party of the Regions, is: do you have confidence in the political impartiality of the General Prosecutor's Office in Ukraine?
Indeed, it is an open secret in Ukraine and abroad that the real cause of the gas crisis that descended on us in early 2009 was a rift between the family clans of Prime Minister Tymoshenko and President Yushchenko, as they fought to control the profits from the transport of gas.
Under these circumstances, I appeal to EU Member States to join the Czech Republic in standing ready to grant political asylum to persecuted Ukrainian opposition politicians and to consider sanctions against Ukraine for violations of international law, if the situation in Ukraine does not change. (PL) Mr President, we are wondering what the essence is of what we are talking about because the facts are, after all, generally known, and we are coming down in favour of those who today are having problems, and of those who are finding themselves at the wrong end of the abuse of authority.
I, too, am not satisfied by the way human rights are being observed and by how democracy is functioning in Kiev, but what have you done - what has this House done, and what have all those who have today, with such high principles, condemned the situation with Mrs Tymoshenko - what have you done to send a clear signal to Kiev and other cities of Ukraine that we are their friends and allies, that we are waiting for them, and that this House should one day be enlarged by the presence of Ukrainian Members?
I must ask you to understand this. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, I would simply like to ask my fellow Member whether he is not aware that we have adopted a resolution in Parliament with a large majority - I myself voted in favour of this resolution - in which we clearly underlined the European perspective of Ukraine.
We have done this not once, but many times. (PL) Mr President, Mr Posselt, firstly, I do know, and secondly, thank you for that resolution.
It has made progress, but it needs to go a bit further. (FI) Mr President, the charges that have been brought against Tymoshenko are, as she herself has said, purely political in nature.
This represents a criminalisation of political opponents of the government in office, aimed solely at eliminating and silencing the opposition.
Yulia Tymoshenko, the former prime minister, and her ministers are being attacked by means of show trials, rather than by a political confrontation which, although heated, would be serious and transparent.
The Ukrainian Government must respect the opposition, without brandishing the weapon of judicial power, and respect the rules of a democratic state and human rights, as subscribed to in the Eastern Partnership agreements. (FI) Mr President, the former Ukrainian Prime Minister, Yulia Tymoshenko, has had to answer several corruption charges this spring, and a ban on travel in February prevented her from coming to meet us in Brussels.
Ukraine's new political leaders must also show a sense of responsibility and start implementing the reforms that have remained half-finished since the Orange Revolution. (RO) Mr President, the motion for a resolution relating to the case of the members of the former Ukrainian Government is needed to ensure respect for the basic principles of the European Union, starting with respect for human rights.
It is not Ukraine's justice system which is the biggest concern, but the possible interference of politics in the administration of justice.
The report emphasises that respect for the rule of law in criminal investigations and criminal prosecutions and fair, impartial and independent court proceedings must be guaranteed, in order to ensure that criminal law is not abused for political purposes.
We are hoping that future amendments to the law on the reform of the judicial system will take into consideration the statement by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and sweep away these concerns.
I would like to emphasise that we attach great importance to safeguarding the rule of law in Ukraine, which is a country that we want to enter into a closer contractual relationship with on the basis of association and economic integration.
Finally, I would like to say that we will make clear our absolute respect for proper court proceedings, without passing comment.
We are relying on being able to continue our open and transparent dialogue in Kiev and in Brussels about internal reforms in Ukraine and about the country's closer integration with the EU, both with the Ukrainian authorities and with the opposition.
I am categorically against resolution P7_TA-PROV(2011)0272 because I consider it to be putting rough pressure on the government of Ukraine.
