Ban on the elections for the Tibetan government in exile in Nepal The next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on the ban on the elections for the Tibetan government in exile in Nepal.
The position of the Nepalese Government is therefore complicated.
The position of the Nepalese Government vis-à-vis the elections to the Tibetan Government in exile clearly tells us who is the real global player in this region.
The fact that China has sought to interfere with an unofficial election taking place in another sovereign neighbouring state is an indication of its leaders' contempt for democracy and their paranoia about Tibet.
The Chinese leadership is exerting pressure on its sister party, even on Nepal as a whole, in order that action is taken against the Tibetans - and Nepal caves in.
First of all, the justification for the amendments is based on the causal nature of the occupation of Tibet by the People's Republic of China in the thwarting of the Tibetan elections in Nepal.
Between 1939 and 1990, a total of 15 Polish prime ministers and six presidents ruled from political exile.
Today, the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, too, has a chance for a new beginning thanks to the constitution, which will come into force on 28 May.
The European Union should use all diplomatic and financial means in order to neutralise the pressure on Nepal by China and, in the long term, to ensure that the Tibetans have the right to vote, associate and demonstrate their views.
Just as in the case of Poland, where it was not possible to prevent the work of the 21 representatives of government who were in exile, so will the Dalai Lama's successors, I am convinced, not stop their activities.
Mr President, on 20 March, around 80 000 exiled Tibetans worldwide participated in the direct election of a new prime minister and the members of the government.
Mr President, the ban imposed by the Nepalese authorities on organising the elections for a Tibetan government in exile raises a question mark about the human rights situation in this state.
It is now time for Nepal to show that its democracy is working both domestically and internationally, especially so that the votes cast can be sent to the Central Electoral Commission by 15 April to be validated.
I appeal to the Nepalese Government to take advantage of this opportunity to remedy the situation on fundamental rights in its country.
The pressure China is putting on Nepal, preventing refugees from enjoying a minimum level of rights under international law, is something that we as the European Union should condemn.
The pressure from China is something that we have to do everything we can to counter, and if we do not do it right now, when we are trying to launch this dialogue with the Chinese, I am afraid that we will never do it.
We have to understand that in Nepal, the government probably wanted to do the same thing.
Therefore, if we want to put pressure on the Nepalese Government to act differently, we also have to start by putting pressure on our own governments to show that they have some backbone in their discussions with the Chinese authorities. (RO) Mr President, the Nepalese authorities prevented, under pressure from the Chinese Government, around 20 000 Tibetans in Nepal from voting in the elections for the prime minister of the Tibetan Government in exile.
I call on the European Union's High Representative to express clearly these demands and measures from the European Parliament when in dialogue with the Nepalese and Chinese authorities. (FI) Mr President, China has increased its pressure on the Tibetan Government in exile.
Over 10 000 Tibetans in Nepal were not permitted to vote for a prime minister and members for the parliament of the government in exile.
Finally, I want to say that he will be as welcome in Ireland as the Queen of England and President Obama, who are also coming. (FI) Mr President, the right to participate in democratic elections is a universal fundamental right.
The Tibetans are voting for a new spiritual leader, as the current Dalai Lama steps down.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, as you know, some 20 000 Tibetans live in Nepal, most of them from the old days.
The recent elections on 20 March were an important event for the community outside Tibet and represent a significant step forward in a long reform process envisaged by the Dalai Lama.
On 20 March, more than 10 000 of them were effectively stopped from voting by the authorities.
During an earlier round of voting in Nepal on 3 October last year, the polls were subject to a crack-down by the Nepalese authorities, which seized ballot boxes and closed the Tibetan community's voting sites.
Pre-1990 Tibetans who are recognised as refugees by the Nepalese Government should be provided with adequate Nepalese registration.
The pressure from China seems to be very effective, and what have so far been peaceful demonstrations in defence of freedom of expression and fundamental rights may become a situation which is difficult to control, and this will certainly have international repercussions.
