Madam President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, this report presents the position of the European Parliament very clearly.
Together, we have succeeded in conveying a clear message, Mr Tajani, which is that we want to move industrial policy closer to the centre of the political arena, for good reason.
Industrial policy will help us, firstly, to create good quality, future-proof jobs in Europe and, secondly, to secure investment in Europe.
That is a starting point for creating jobs and increasing the competitiveness of European industry.
I would therefore like to thank you for the work you have done because, if we truly want to put action to promote the real economy at the heart of our political action in favour of the social and market economy, we - the Commission, Parliament and the Council - must work together.
The report you have prepared, Mr Lange, rightly emphasises the economic, environmental and social challenges we face: in short, the sustainability of our industrial policy.
It places sustainability on the same level as competitiveness, because these two dimensions are closely connected.
I believe a strong signal needs to be sent out that the 2010 industrial model cannot be one based on State aid and that, to be competitive in the era of global challenges, European industry cannot afford not to focus on innovation and research.
That is why, before issuing the industrial policy document, the Commission presented its document on innovation policy, which I think is absolutely fundamental to the development of a genuine industrial policy and also helps identify paths to follow in the sector of raw materials research and innovation.
As I was saying, on 10 December 2010 with the Hungarian Presidency, we launched the first cooperation exercises on access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be followed by other, similar exercises, in close cooperation with the Member States.
The aim is to roll out this initiative in at least 10 Member States and then expand it to the rest of the 27.
The first is that the report takes an approach to the subject of industrial development that does not break down industrial and business interests into market sectors, but puts them together according to common objectives.
Therefore, at a time when Europe should be beginning extensive work to identify the Arianes and the Airbuses of 2050, the Commission has to realise that, with the crisis, the rules put in place are no longer suited to today's economy.
Secondly, the recovery of industry in Europe also means that our competitiveness is not only in play in the financial or tertiary sector, but here as well, and it is not too late for us to take up the challenge to make Europe competitive in industry vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
I feel it is important to highlight once again these new factors on which we need to act: credit - we are calling for new initiatives in addition to those already announced by the Commissioner on the subject of credit - raw materials, energy prices, innovation, research, the need to enhance the capacity for the technological transfer of the results of research and innovation within companies in Europe, in new products and new ways of organising production.
We therefore thank Mr Lange and look forward to an excellent collaboration with the Commission in order to arrive at concrete results very soon.
A total of 500 amendments and 50 compromise proposals have been tabled with the aim of making industry in Europe a world leader again.
Therefore, we must put in place a regulatory framework which will support innovation and sustainability at the same time.
At the same time, we need to support small and medium-sized businesses, promote the European patent and prevent knowledge theft, particularly with regard to China.
However, this report can only represent the first step.
We need to link the concept of industrial policy, which people in many Member States find it hard to discuss and which the Germans, in particular, have always been unwilling to talk about, with the competitiveness pact, which will be presented to the Heads of State or Government over the next few weeks in order to safeguard the euro area.
The EU has put in place an important strategy, set itself the 20-20-20 targets, and we have said to the Member States that they must implement it.
We need to turn things back the right way up, but not on the basis of illusions of state control and not with the idea that the state must take a regulatory role and intervene directly in business.
The state must create a sensible framework which promotes innovation and, in particular, environmental innovation, and which will allow progress to be made in these areas by exploiting competition.
Therefore, I would like to say in conclusion, Mr Tajani, that I am very grateful to you for explaining that sustainability and competitiveness are not opposites, but must be put on the same footing and coordinated with one another.
Madam President, the debate on industry is very important for Europe at the present time.
The competitiveness of European firms depends on the continuing economic stability of Europe.
Industrial production is fundamental to sustainable growth and employment in Europe, which necessitates another EU and external trade policy that defends our industries, including those that guarantee jobs in countries and regions where unemployment is already very high.
However, such proposals do not defend our industries like they should, as the European reality has already demonstrated.
We have therefore tabled some proposals to remove these most damaging aspects; we hope that they will be adopted tomorrow.
In order to guarantee all this, it is essential that there be an EU framework, and in that sense, the European Commission has an important role to play in terms of industrial policy, of external trade, of financial policy, and of research, science and innovation that supports SMEs, as well as in terms of commitment to training and reskilling workers, and to the dignity of those who work.
Commissioner, the economic crisis has shown us that countries with an industrial base not only survive; they also prosper.
The report also makes a passing reference to the fact that in the new Member States, industry is losing ground, and that the EU must find the means to halt unfair practices by large companies.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups.
Yes, because European Union countries are proving that they do.
We do not want protectionism within the European Union, nor do we want protectionism when our industry competes with third countries and third regions. (SV) Madam President, several of us participating in this debate have started by saying 'at last'.
Access to raw materials is part of this - a requirement for industry therefore, but, at the same time, also part of the transition.
Europe produces the most PhD holders in the world, but fails to successfully convert their skills and knowledge into really practical market solutions.
The high-tech edge Europe has will enable us to enjoy to the full the potential and benefits of the 'green' economy in the future.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mr Lange on an excellent report, and a substantive one, to make us think about the trends for industrial policy.
As was said by one senior IT executive, for Europe's competitiveness, one has to realise that it is much better enhanced by investing in IT compared to physical infrastructure. (CS) Madam President, I would like to make just three comments.
The fact that this debate is being held in the evening may be a disadvantage.
The Court of Justice of the European Union has supported this position in Opinion 1/09 published on 8 March 2011, which concludes that the draft agreement establishing a European and Community Patents Court is not compatible with the provisions of the Treaty. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, first of all, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for an excellent and very important report.
This is actually largely a matter of how we can bring competitiveness to European industrial policy and, on the other hand, how we can respond to the structural change that has come about through job cuts in basic industry in certain areas.
We have to look forward in industrial policy and create a sustainable one based on our own European strengths and our regional resources.
Regional structures will allow us to support a sustainable industrial policy in Europe, and because of this, we need to stress the importance even more of innovative clusters and broad cooperation between actors, educational institutions and companies.
Our main objective must be to provide more and better quality industrial jobs in the Union. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has never had to rethink its industrial policy as much as it needs to now, and it must also reconsider certain decisions made in the recent past.
This flagship initiative linked to the Europe 2020 strategy has therefore been both useful and timely, and for this I am grateful to the Commission and to Commissioner Tajani in particular.
I can finally see a route marked out that I hope will soon lead us to set standards and guarantees that are valid throughout the European Union.
That is the key to European competitiveness and not the use of the workforce as an adjustment variable, as the Commission proposed in the European semester.
Furthermore, this policy should take shape not only at national and European level, but also at local level in the context of an effective cohesion policy.
Today, Madam President, we are debating an ambitious industrial policy, and this morning, we voted on a tax on financial transactions, and on Eurobonds.
Europe is currently finding its competitiveness in global markets decreased.
In particular, it is essential for energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies to constitute the basis of this new industrial revolution, so as to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment.
Measures such as the introduction of new technologies and increased reinforcement of scientific research and innovation in sectors such as the manufacturing industry are of crucial importance.
This is the only way that we will be able to return Europe to global leadership, which is so necessary for Europe's competitiveness and economic growth. (NL) Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate my fellow Member, Mr Bernd Lange, on an excellent report and on the fantastic cooperation on his part.
The internal market is still too fragmented and requires completion.
It will help us create cradle-to-cradle industry and encourage intelligent use of raw materials and a healthy economy.
It is time that we set an example again, both for others and for ourselves. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to thank you for the attention given to industrial matters and to pay tribute to the tremendous work accomplished by my fellow Member, Mrs Grossetête, on behalf of our political group.
Industry accounts for 60 million jobs plus two extra jobs in related services for each job in industry, that is to say, 180 million jobs in total.
Some say: agriculture in South America, industry in China and services in Europe.
We have EUR 30 billion to spend in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
Nevertheless, Commissioner Tajani has put the issue of the necessity of a worldwide level playing field on the agenda.
Commissioner Tajani, I wish to invite you to join in that debate. (NL) Madam President, with the Lange report, you, Commissioner, will tomorrow most likely see Parliament standing fairly united on the importance of industrial policy.
We must, indeed, ensure that these mobile phones are more effectively recycled over the next few years, but in the future, we have to ensure that we manufacture mobile phones which are completely embedded in a cradle-to-cradle-concept, so that all the essential components of that mobile phone are systematically recovered and used to produce new mobile phones.
It is that kind of overall policy that needs to be developed by 2050 and I expect the Commission to take decisions now that will ensure that industry has a clear framework to work towards. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think the text of the Lange report is balanced and its main merit is that it centres its examination on certain crucial factors, in particular, the revival of the European industrial policy and the shift in focus from financial activities to the real economy.
There is no reference to the link between the European Union's industrial policy and strategic policies for the Union such as Galileo, ITER and others.
In fact, the slight recovery that we have seen cannot reabsorb the number of people made redundant over the last three years.
Firstly, it proposes an integrated industrial strategy for the European Union; that is to say, a strategy at once continental and cooperative, which differs in all respects from the narrowly national and non-cooperative policies in operation in Europe for the last 15 years.
This is absolutely crucial because, in this area, we appear naive and weak. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, during the crisis, we could see for ourselves how important the role of industry is in our economy.
Vice-President Tajani has stated that industry is at the heart of Europe and is indispensable for finding solutions to the challenges of our society today and in the future.
Finally, I am glad to see that the final report strongly advocates the significance of raw materials in the industrial sector of the future. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I offer my congratulations to Commissioner Tajani on the work that has been done and also to the rapporteurs.
I am in favour of this important report, which represents Parliament's contribution to the debate on Europe's industrial policy.
First of all, I think every possible effort must be made to reaffirm the key role of European industry on the world stage and to offer particular support to small and medium-sized enterprises, which form a vital pillar in the internal market.
The voice of the European public cannot be ignored again, especially when it is based on such solid foundations: it is a question of making our policies more democratic.
I still have doubts about certain aspects, such as the explicit reference to new legislation on resource efficiency, the creation of task forces at national level to manage restructuring operations, and especially enhanced cooperation on the European patent. (ET) Madam President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur.
I am not only talking about Eurobonds or project bonds, but about completely novel approaches to industrial policy, science and the funding of innovation.
In the innovation cycle, these funds have facilitated a considerable increase in such funding for businesses.
It must also improve the European Union's competitiveness and create jobs across the whole Union.
Industrial strategy must identify the strategic areas in which we will invest, as well as the necessary raw material sources.
Public funding must be increased for research and development in order to mobilise private investment, while simplifying procedures and cutting red tape are a prerequisite for industry's increased involvement. (HU) Madam President, the economic crisis has demonstrated that the service sectors are far more vulnerable than industrial policy, and Europe must therefore once again focus on the latter.
We were not arguing about what the difficulties were, but rather about how we could accelerate this process.
The clear position expressed by Court of Justice is a considerable obstacle to this enhanced cooperation, and I hope this decision will encourage other Members to join us in order to defend the equality of all Member States and the rigorous application of EU primary law. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the industrial policy is thorough, examines all the weaknesses in the system, and points us in the direction of respect for the principles of the social market economy.
In fact, productivity in the manufacturing sector in Europe is going through difficult times, while emerging countries are not only growing but also investing heavily in research and technology.
Europe needs a balance of all three and not to recognise that would be very foolish.
I want, in particular, to draw attention to paragraph 112, which talks about free trade being the cornerstone of Europe's economic growth, but also talks about fair global competition and, in particular, urges that, when we come to do bilateral trade agreements or multilateral agreements, we must take account of the principles of sustainable development, social and environmental concerns and relevant standards in those agreements.
So I think this is an important report on all fronts. (PL) Madam President, one of the decisive factors affecting industrial growth in the European Union is the trend towards a 'green economy'.
However, the way in which the current EU regulations operate is blind and arbitrary, resulting in the opposite effect, or, in other words, limiting our progress towards this goal.
I would like to ask the Commissioner whether it is not time - while we still have time - at least to revise certain aspects of these regulations, and to stop these destructive measures? (IT) Madam President, Commissioner Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, the deep international economic crisis has hit industry especially hard.
As I also said during my hearing before Parliament prior to my appointment as Industry Commissioner, this is my vision - a broader vision - which stems from a concept that is part of the Treaty of Lisbon, namely, the social market economy.
We now have to apply and defend the choices we have made and are making - which are contained in the Europe 2020 document - with a strong effort to apply the political choices that we have made.
However, we must remain vigilant, and work and apply our industrial policy.
Madam President, when Anderlecht plays Liège, the rules must be the same whether it plays at home or away, and the same principle must also apply to our industrial system.
I believe that this is a good rule for defending not only the market, competition and growth, but also the rights of workers in the European Union.
We have to help young people to become entrepreneurs, and we need to do a great deal of work in connection with training.
I therefore believe in the importance of clusters, where schools, universities, SMEs, large companies, research and innovation work together to enhance the competitiveness of our entrepreneurial system.
We already have 2 000 clusters in Europe, and I believe that this pilot scheme must be rolled out.
I am very pleased to hear that the Managing Director of the London Stock Exchange - the United Kingdom is one of the countries where much has been done to help services, banks and finance - will take full part in the credit access forum organised by the European Commission to show that the world of finance, or part of the world of finance, wants to participate in the growth and development of SMEs and our industrial system.
As I said in my first speech, I am totally in favour of conducting research into raw materials recycling.
We can also work on finding substitutes for rare raw materials.
Therefore, in an activity also linked to our innovation policy, one of the innovation partnerships envisaged by the European Commission relates precisely to innovation in the raw materials sector.
There is a great deal to do; we have asked all the Member States to appoint an SME ambassador, as the European Commission has done.
The signals being received are positive; some countries have already appointed an ambassador, or have indicated their intention to do so, and in a broader context, too, because we must not separate large-scale industry from SMEs.
We are extending a hand to you, Mr Tajani, but we are also aware that we must take you at your word.
Mr Tajani, if we are successful, and if the hand that we are extending to you and the statement that you have made are compatible, perhaps we will find ourselves in a situation similar to that at the end of the wonderful film 'Casablanca', when Humphrey Bogart says to the police captain: 'I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship!' The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11:30 on Wednesday, 9 March 2011.
Written statements (Rule 149) The internalisation of trade and supranational corporations are some of the many aspects of globalisation.
When discussing the EU's industrial policy, we must answer the following question: what kind of industry does Europe need - a corporate, branch-driven industry, characterised by large-scale mass production, or small-scale regional industry, or maybe even national industry?
