Rising food prices (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on rising food prices.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, thank you for inviting the Hungarian Presidency to participate in this debate on rising food prices.
So what can the European Union do to address this problem?
The Council, along with Parliament, is engaged in an intensive debate on the future development of the common agricultural policy.
There are ongoing discussions in the Council concerning the Commission's Communication of 18 November 2010 on the future of the CAP, and the Hungarian Presidency plans to adopt Council conclusions at the Council meeting of 17 March.
We hope that the discussions concerning the legislative proposals scheduled to come out in the second semester of 2011 will lead to concrete progress.
This is the way forward in order to enhance global governance in this area.
The Commission's Communication on assisting developing countries in addressing food security challenges, also adopted last year, called at the same time for a new common food security policy framework, further strengthening EU leadership in the global food security agenda and improving the effectiveness of EU assistance.
The extent to which it contributes to price volatility is unclear, but there is a good reason to enhance transparency on the commodity markets.
The French Presidency of the G20 has identified this as a priority for the coming year.
The Hungarian Presidency is fully committed to working with you towards a first reading agreement on the Commission proposal on over-the-counter derivatives.
The European Union has been at the forefront in efforts to tackle the issue since the first crisis three years ago, but more needs to be done.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me this opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the Commission on rising food prices.
It was at my request that this issue was debated at the Agriculture Council of 24 January.
I therefore also welcome the opportunity given to me to have this dialogue with the European Parliament on a subject of such vital importance.
Let us begin with the situation on the world's agricultural markets.
It should be noted that the forecasts for global common wheat stocks at the end of the 2010-2011 marketing year are higher than in 2007.
As for sugar, the prices are once again at record highs with, for white sugar, a price close to EUR 625 per tonne in mid-January.
The production of the current marketing year was recently revised downwards in certain countries, including Australia.
As Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development I have already, and repeatedly, expressed my commitment in this area, in Berlin at the end of January for example, with my counterparts in the various countries involved in the G20, but also recently, within the United Nations, with the Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, during a recent visit to New York.
It is a crucial issue both for the European Union and the world's poorest countries, which is why I am working closely with Commissioner Piebalgs on these issues in order to also adapt the EU's development policy to this issue of food security better.
For the agricultural markets there are sources of data on production, consumption, trade and stocks.
That said, certain data can be improved, especially data concerning stocks, on which there is a lack of information, in particular on the worldwide distribution of stocks.
The Commission has published several communications on the price of agricultural products and foodstuffs.
On 2 February the Commission published a new, more global, communication on the commodities market and the financial markets that are derived from it.
Therefore, I think that we need to work as a matter of priority in the coming months - until the summer I think - on the following issues: first, the availability and transparency of information relating to private and public stocks as well as to production and consumption; second, the collection, processing and dissemination of this information; the security mechanism for countries facing a situation of food tension; the role and organisation of food aid at international level and in the European Union; the improvement of international governance, for example through mechanisms for institutional dialogue between key countries; the levels of investment in sustainable agricultural production and research not only in the European Union but also in the poorest countries.
I think that, in this context, the European Union should have a far greater presence, not only with food aid but, above all, by providing support to countries in the south to enable them to develop their own local production capacities in a sustainable manner.
In the European Union we need to look more seriously - and I have every intention of doing so - into identifying market mechanisms that would enable us to prevent catastrophes in certain sectors as a result of temporary squeezes on the income levels of producers and input costs.
However, trade policy concerning foodstuffs should be connected to other policies relating to food at the international level if we want a coherent approach on this issue.
In conclusion, I can assure you that I am closely monitoring trends in food prices and I want to work in the future in consultation with you, here, in Parliament, and with the Council, on this issue, so as to come forward with concrete proposals, first and foremost with the reform of the common agricultural policy, but also with other, more specific, instruments.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, can I thank both the Council and Commission for a very clear statement of their intent on this very crucial issue of rising food prices.
The realities of agriculture and the low farm incomes in both Europe and the developing world are central to this debate and, lest we also forget, one of the crucial problems - and the Commission identified it in its position paper - is that rising commodity prices and rising food prices do not translate into higher farm incomes.
What we need to do - and I think this has started to happen since my report during the last Parliamentary term - is to put agriculture and food centre stage.
We must maintain and increase food production within the European Union as part of our contribution to global food security.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (FR) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I fully agree with the remark that Mairead McGuinness has just made on the fact that there is a fundamental link between the issues of food and agriculture.
Therefore, the tight situation on agricultural markets and agricultural commodities is a trend that is on the increase.
To do this - what the Commissioner said is important - there are two elements: yes, there needs to be transparency on stocks, but we also need a public policy on stocks in Europe and stock management at a global level, especially at the level of the United Nations.
Secondly, we need to change our development policy to ensure that globally - and Europe is a global player - we once again invest in agriculture, because we need agriculture to feed the world. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, it is welcome that we are actually discussing agriculture and food issues in the middle of the session on a Wednesday afternoon rather than at midnight.
We have come to expect our supermarket shelves to be overloaded and groaning with food 24 hours a day.
We need to act now and build a new agricultural model.
Europe needs to take the lead and the reform of the common agricultural policy gives us the opportunity to map out a sustainable food production system that can meet that huge demand in world food supplies that is going to be needed in the future.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, as in 2008, the price of agricultural raw materials is soaring on world markets.
The fall in production in certain traditionally exporting areas due to climate change, the diversion of cereals to biofuel production and the financial speculation accentuating the price rises are responsible for this situation, as evidenced by the reports of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the French authorities, and as also indicated by the Commission.
The consequences of this new food crisis are exacting a heavy toll on the 1.2 billion people in the world who live on less than USD 1.5 a day.
Since 13 January 2011, the US administration has demanded the limitation and the transparency of the positions taken by the financial funds on the agricultural commodities markets.
Five years ago, wheat was worth EUR 100 per tonne; today it is traded at close to EUR 300.
The Commission is demanding that farmers adapt to market signals.
Faced with this crisis, the European Union cannot wait until 2014 to find solutions.
Thirdly, for 2011, a mechanism for transferring part of the aid directed at supporting cereals towards livestock farming.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, rising food prices can bring governments to their knees.
I have been a Member of this Parliament since 1989.
We have a situation in the European Union where farmers are leaving the industry hand over fist in every Member State.
Shelter for ordinary people can be constructed through a strong common agricultural policy which ensures high-quality food at reasonable prices without negative impacts on the environment.
It seems to me that the drama of the hunger riots of 2008 has still made too little impression on the minds and hearts of those with political and economic power and also of those who are unscrupulously speculating on the agricultural commodities markets.
The number of starving people worldwide has once again risen above a billion, and it is the poorest people in the world who are most affected by the price rises on the food markets.
Speculations on the agricultural commodities markets no longer concern foodstuffs but are now almost exclusively concerned with financial market activities and transactions, which have a direct effect on food prices.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, whilst food prices are undoubtedly rising, the situation at the farm gate is very different.
I would also urge Parliament to consider very strong support for the common agricultural policy in the very important debates that are coming up.
This will only come, particularly in the United Kingdom, if we have a supermarket ombudsman. (FR) Madam President, Mr President, Commissioner, I will address an issue that has been raised on several occasions and often presented as a single reason: speculation.
It is clear that there is a definite link between certain financial activities and increased volatility and prices for raw materials.
However, looking at the entire issue solely in terms of financial speculation would certainly be a mistake, since part of what we call speculation is actually the legitimate hedging of prices on the part of producers and, as we are well aware, these producers could not do without this hedging possibility.
There is a real risk of a global food crisis.
The signs are worrying.
Nonetheless, the specific nature of agricultural production deserves particular attention in the context of the common agricultural policy (CAP), by dedicating proper risk-analysis instruments to development cooperation policy, and by backing food production to the detriment of other forms of international aid.
We have a responsibility to lead the world in producing more, not less'. (CS) Madam President, if we are to have a genuinely serious discussion about rising food prices, we cannot avoid the issue of how the European Union is itself contributing to this unwelcome trend, however uncomfortable that may be for some.
In December 2008 this Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of my report on the EUR 1 billion food facility to provide financial aid to developing countries in light of soaring food prices at that time.
The situation remains extremely volatile, affecting producers and consumers in both the EU and developing countries.
I am told that the EU is importing from the rest of the world an amount of food that would take about 35 million hectares of land to grow.
To prevent it, we have to look at its causes and attack them.
Food prices have now risen sharply, which has made the situation even worse for many people.
We need to invest in the common agricultural policy.
Technology will be the key and now is the right time to do this. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in food prices requires two types of response.
With the new CAP we must give - and this is what we are in fact doing - strong support to farm incomes under the first pillar and support measures for rural development, increasing investment in agriculture and food security.
The Commission must propose measures ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, social tensions, such as the recent ones in North Africa, are almost always triggered by rising food prices.
The European Union must therefore have a clear awareness that agricultural policies - the common agricultural policy for the European Union and the Farm Bill for the United States - have a role of extraordinary and strategic importance to play in the world order, a role that goes far beyond the legitimate protection of farmers' incomes.
We need, Madam President, a new global food policy capable of coordinating agricultural policies at international level.
Following the financial crisis, various hedge funds turned to the commodity exchanges, where financial reserves are now fifteen times higher than actual agricultural stocks, in order to recoup their losses.
We therefore need an institutional framework limiting their investments in derivative agricultural markets directly linked to the food sector.
According to the World Bank, over 44 million people have been plunged into dire poverty as a result of rising food prices.
Hence, we need a holistic approach to ensure that we encourage people to take care of their own development needs and to ensure food security at local level.
We have a chance to rectify our mistakes.
The problem of food security is becoming a global problem.
It is good that ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) Madam President, rising food prices hit the most vulnerable population groups.
Against a background where, in 2010, the number of undernourished people in the world reached 925 million, providing food security must become a priority for the European Union.
I call on the Commission to create instruments to combat price volatility and excessive speculation, which in turn help exacerbate the global food crisis.
I must also stress that, in most cases, the rise in food prices does not result either in an increase in farmers' incomes.
We need to make the land that we have productive.
If we consider, for example, whether EUR 100 for a tonne of wheat really is an appropriate price then we have to say perhaps not.
If we consider what proportion of the price of the final product, for instance bread, is represented by the price of the raw materials then I think that the increase in the prices of the raw materials is not the only reason for rising food prices; other factors are also involved.
Thus, this whole issue is also an opportunity for agriculture to put itself in a better position for the future. (DE) Madam President, food prices have reached new record highs.
The volatility of food prices has increased in recent years for various reasons.
For me as a Social Democrat it is important that everyone has access to wholesome food at reasonable prices and at the same time that farmers are able to receive a reasonable income for their work. (PL) Madam President, let us just say openly that there are powerful trade lobbies active in the European Union in whose interest it is to weaken European agriculture so that greater profits can be made by importing food from all over the world.
These increases result in an inability to meet the basic food needs of the populations of all countries in the developing world.
In the new common agricultural policy, we must therefore provide instruments that are capable of reducing price volatility, limiting speculation on agricultural commodities and ensuring an adequate level of production within the EU.
The statistic is that, whenever food prices increase by 1%, 16 million people around the world are plunged into dire poverty.
The observation is that, it is impossible to prevent volatility, especially on agricultural markets, extreme volatility is not inevitable and it can be combated, however difficult this may be.
Europe must be there, at the forefront, especially at the level of the G20.
Therefore, we should not be surprised if agricultural commodities are now also a sought-after trading objective. - (SK) Madam President, the food crisis caused by the exceptionally poor harvest last year has highlighted to us the shortcomings of our agriculture and food policy.
The current food price increases can be blamed partly on the poor harvest.
You know, Commissioner, the shortage of agricultural products in the new Member States is not caused by poor harvests but by the fact that it no longer pays our farmers to produce under your subsidy and pricing policy.
The projects announced by the Commission in the new strategy for commodities and raw materials, aimed at securing transparency and stability on the commodities markets, are therefore welcome.
This must be incorporated, even when we talk about our common agricultural policy.
I think it is also clear that rising food prices is a worrying trend which, in addition to the issue of volatility and the considerable variation in prices, makes the problem we have to solve even worse.
That is why, in the medium and long term, our common agricultural policy must be conceived with this in mind.
It has also emerged in the course of the debate that it is necessary to ensure that our common agricultural policy and the agricultural policies of developed countries are also in step with the development of agriculture in the southern countries and that our policy to support cooperation and development with the southern countries is in step with the common agricultural policy.
The common agricultural policy still has work to do on this point in the months and years ahead.
On this point, therefore, we are not talking simply of wishes but of concrete proposals.
We must also consider the role that the European Union has to play on the international scene with regard to the food problem.
As regards the balance of aid between the crop sector and the animal sector, for example, the Member States already have the possibility to act on the decisions taken in 2008 in the health check of the common agricultural policy.
I think that these are questions we must ask ourselves before we put forward proposals to this effect.
The final decision always comes from the regulation proposed by the Commission, but these are regulations of the Council and, now, of the Council and of Parliament.
I also thank you for this fruitful debate and I hope that today's debate will still be fresh in people's minds in a few months' time when we will discuss the resources to be allocated to the common agricultural policy, a policy that is a basic instrument in addressing food security.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, I would like to thank all the Members for this constructive debate.
I would just like to add that, on a personal level, this debate has reinforced my long-standing conviction that, to tackle global challenges, such as hunger in the world, volatility of food and raw material prices, turbulence on the financial markets, regulation of financial products and services, there is a need for much more global governance and more global rule-making.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 February 2011.
The European Commission really must give priority to agriculture in its development aid, particularly aid to allow farmers to gain access to markets and aid to small and medium-sized family farms.
Humanitarian food aid must respond to the needs, challenges and structural limitations of developing countries, with account being taken of production, distribution and local transport as well as the trading capacities of these countries, in order to help lay the foundations of their long-term food security.
There are 79 million people in the EU living below the poverty threshold and during the winter of last year food aid was given to 16 million people in the EU.
Programmes of this kind must be supported and prompt, long-term measures adopted to ensure security of food supply in the EU and throughout the world.
During the second half of 2010, the wholesale prices of agricultural produce increased by 32%.
World grain consumption increased to 41 million tonnes between 2005 and 2010 compared to 21 million tonnes between 1990 and 2004.
According to various analysts, a substantial food crisis in 2011 is a reality; it would take just a single failed crop.
This has caused a very tense situation where we need to realise that increasing food prices lead to a growth in inflation, feed protectionism and cause unrest, all of which could lead to social, economic and political instability in Europe as well as globally.
I support the endeavours of the European Commission to accept a new legislative package by spring 2011 which would give the Commission greater authority to regulate markets and prevent speculation.
The CAP reform must help in this direction.
in writing. - (HU) The steep rise in food prices is caused by the simultaneous effect of three factors: the loss of yields caused by natural disasters, the growing demand for food, especially on the part of China and India, and commodity exchange activities, that is, price speculation.
Only 10-20% of cereals change hands on the global market, and yet a reduction in production can result in a state of panic.
However, much more than short-term remedies, what is needed is the courage to establish a new architecture that reconciles the need to increase food production by 70% in the next 40 years with the increasingly limited natural resources.
This is severely affecting the poor, as well as producers of meat and milk.
in writing. - (FI) People's right to adequate nutrition is a human right that has been acknowledged in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights since 1948.
The reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy is taking place at the same time as a rise in global market prices for food.
The price of food and food price trends are affected by several critical issues in global agriculture, such as climate change, energy policy, and the availability of natural resources and how efficiently they are used.
The creation of a sustainable food policy is at present one of the most important issues for the European Union.
Not only does an increase in food prices threaten the lowest income groups, but it also reveals much deeper and more serious problems that will pose a major threat in the future.
However, food prices are also affected by economic factors, especially abuse of the market system through government manipulation of the US dollar exchange rate and irresponsible speculation in commodity trading.
I call on the Commission to make fundamental progress in strengthening agricultural production in Europe and in the developing countries.
It is unacceptable some should profit from the hunger of others, whether in Europe or in developing countries.
Citizens have a right to food security, a precondition of which is access to healthy food for all.
Climate change must also be an EU priority in the interest of food security.
in writing. - (LV) The last few months have seen a sharp rise in food prices, as a result of which the number of people living on the margins of poverty has rapidly increased.
The situation in Europe is not so critical, as our citizens' incomes are incomparably greater than those in developing countries.
Nevertheless, our voters too are becoming aware of increasing food prices.
