We need consensus; we need unanimity on the next financial perspective.
However, an incentive to find a way out of this vicious circle would be if we had open reflection without taboos and where we could analyse not only spending, but also the revenue side of the European budget.
What we need - and this is also part of the budgetary review - is administrative expenditure self-restraint.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget is the first budget that this Parliament is called on to negotiate and vote on using its new powers under the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is the first in which we have desisted from calling for any increase in the global volume proposed by the Commission, instead preferring a realistic and political approach.
However, our approach is also political insofar as we believe that the 2011 budget cannot be disassociated from the more general financial context of the years to come and, in particular, from the perspective of the next 2014-2020 financial cycle.
A euro spent at European level is, indeed, more profitable, more productive than a euro spent at national level, because a European euro does not have a deficit to cover.
President of the Council, Ministers, you have in your own hands the key to unlocking these debates and negotiations so that all the Member States can move forward, so that the euro that is at the level of Brussels can return to the level of the citizens in the Member States and be much more productive and create new jobs at a European level.
We debated a 2011 budget under the constraints with which we are familiar, that is, those of a deep crisis affecting all of Europe with public deficits at national level which could lead to two hypotheses.
Either these public deficits at national level pose a constraint on the European deficit, or these deficits at national level must give a new direction and a new lease of life at the level of Europe.
Our entire problem really concerns how to manage the crisis and reduce our deficits and debt, and also how to prepare for extricating ourselves from the crisis.
We can only get out of the crisis, and Joseph Daul made this point just now, if the European budget, on account of being European, is able to provide us with the resources to recover what we are lacking today; that is growth, job creation, innovation, research.
My second point, Madam President, in fact concerns the things that are being said here: that we must reduce the EU budget and contributions at European level in order to improve public finances - that is hogwash.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, in presenting the mid-term review for the multiannual financial framework, the European Commission is bringing news which I believe will be a cause for concern for all Europeans, but more specifically for the British people.
Finally, with regard to own resources, these are important not only because Europe then has its own resources, but also to enable us to now combat the perverse effect of Member States' contributions.
In 2011, there will be no point in still fussing about what we wanted to do in 2008, or what we should have done in 2008.
The issue of own resources was raised here.
It is entirely legitimate and in accordance with the treaty - yes, the treaty requires it in fact - for us to concern ourselves with our own resources, because the treaty states that, without prejudice to other revenue, we shall finance ourselves first of all from our own resources.
Yet the 2011 budget has shown this to be untenable.
Indeed, the financial framework takes account of neither the new tasks under the Treaty of Lisbon nor the EU 2020 objectives.
The treaty states that the EU budget must be financed from own resources.
It is to be hoped that the European Council and the Council will also grasp the need to now open the debate on own resources as a matter of urgency with a view to the financial perspective from 2014 onwards. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am very pleased that we have this document before us at last.
We should not at this moment be treating any questions which are in any way related to the budget as taboo, and we should be talking about everything, including about own resources.
If we can achieve all that, we will eventually have a 4% increase in GDP and 5.6 million extra jobs by 2020. (DE) Mr President, in the Committee on Regional Development, we also had great expectations of the budget review.
We have devised a strategy for all of this: the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, this strategy, the Europe 2020 strategy, should begin now, and so I would like to ask why the multiannual financial framework is not being revised at present so that it complies with this strategy, to which we have all already given our backing? (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I will say right at the outset that I think it is a good document that we have before us here.
Almost every other section mentions how we should do things better in future with regard to our budget, whether in relation to our priorities, how to achieve the goals of the Europe 2020 strategy, better cooperation with our neighbours, better European infrastructure or our future agricultural policy and cohesion policy.
Following these agreements, the EU established compensatory measures for ACP countries to the tune of EUR 190 million, if I am not mistaken.
The ACP countries, however, have estimated the necessary accompanying measures at far more than EUR 190 million.
Secondly, I would like to dwell on the principles involved.
I think that it may be difficult for us to talk about borrowing funds without us being clear about our own resources, including those derived from cooperation with financial institutions like the European Investment Bank or about the reuse of unused funds from the European budget instead of them being returned to Member States. (FR) Mr President, a word on this communication from the Commission.
We have received a document which does, in fact, contain certain elements of a programme and certain declarations.
I should also like to say that two issues worth noting are the use of own resources and the question of agricultural policy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must thank the Commissioner because the document actually exists.
Partly I see the glass half full, because it talks about own resources, a subject that this Parliament was hoping would be dealt with some time ago so as to reduce the Member States' contributions and increase the chance of making the major investments that Europe needs.
On the other hand, however, I also see the glass half empty, because with regard to the common agricultural policy, it makes plenty of references to the public goods and services that agriculture must produce for people but very few to primary agricultural production and the competitiveness of the sector. (PL) Ladies and gentlemen, the budget review was the cause of great anxiety, but the way in which it was presented by the Commissioner was so clever that we have become more calm and content.
Perhaps we should ask the question as to how to increase the effectiveness of EU resources and how to spend them more intelligently.
We know that every euro spent from the EU budget is more profitable than a euro from a national budget.
It is an important observation that net contributors also receive significant benefits from the resources which they have paid into the EU budget.
This is feasible and this is an exercise which is ahead of us for 2011, 2012 and 2013, but we cannot do it at one stroke by simply quantifying without a legal basis and introducing new requirements into the budget.
We are here to produce a balanced opinion, because at the end of the day, it is all about compromise and we should have the final agreement of 27 countries.
