This will be a little shorter this evening than it should be because the preceding debate overran by 25 minutes because of earlier delays.
Speakers from the floor have 30 seconds.
Moreover, pension funds are major institutional investors.
President Barroso has announced some policy guidelines on this matter to the European Parliament.
Moreover, Mr President, this meets a demand made by the European Parliament during the negotiations on the Solvency II Directive.
However, Commissioner, I would also like to ask whether you can say why, in the EU 2020 strategy, the European Commission has devoted so little attention to the security and stability of pensions and to pension guarantees, since we have to take into account the current situation in the labour market, the current demographic situation and, indeed, this is one of the most important issues, what sort of pensions people will receive in 10 years time.
Mrs Blinkevičiūtė, it is evident that the document on the 2020 strategy, which is a document for green growth, for intelligent, equitable and inclusive growth, cannot mention all of the issues.
I have just said, Mrs Blinkevičiūtė, that pension funds are major institutional investors.
I repeat that we will work by showing respect, in the name of subsidiarity, for the commitment and the attachment of many countries - and I am fairly familiar with some of them - to the pay-as-you-go scheme and, on this basis, we will work on this Green Paper, which will be ready in the coming weeks or months, at the latest.
I should be happy to have as broad a debate as possible with you and other interested Members. (DE) Mr President, my home country, Austria, subsidises private pension provision by a maximum of EUR 210 per year, although pension speculation has been shown to have been one of the triggers of the financial crash in the United States.
Mr Barroso had the opportunity, a short while ago in this Chamber, to reply to several questions on the major issues relating to financial movements.
In 30 years' time, these people will be retiring, while at the moment, the birth rate is very low.
Those being born today will supply the workforce in 30 years' time and they will not be able to provide the resources required for the pension funds at that time.
Moreover, even though the question of a family or demographic policy does not come under the main European areas of responsibility, I do think that we would all benefit from having a debate and making comparisons on this issue, which concerns, to a greater or lesser extent, all of the European countries.
We are working on the issue and we are going to put the final touches to it to ask all of these questions, whilst taking proper account of what falls under national responsibilities for pensions systems and what it is possible to do at European level, especially in relation to all these private pension funds and their proliferation on the European markets.
Subject: Flood insurance systems in the EU Recent flooding in Ireland has caused approximately €500 million worth of damage to both private and public infrastructure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kelly is asking a question relating to a recent tragic event, one that has struck Madeira and the Atlantic coast, in my country in particular, causing dozens of deaths.
We had to wait until 2002 and the major flooding that affected Germany, Austria and Slovakia before the Commission was able to create, in the space of three months, with the help of Parliament and of the Council, the Solidarity Fund that will intervene in Madeira and on the Atlantic coast, just as it has intervened in several major disasters since 2002.
My colleague, Mrs Georgieva, is working with Baroness Ashton on the introduction of the European Civil Protection Force, and I hope that we will not have to wait for a new disaster before we pool our responses and our relief efforts under a single European flag in disasters such as that in Haiti or the tsunami.
The 2009 White Paper on adapting to climate change suggests having publicly supported insurance systems where no insurance exists.
Obviously, that is a huge issue and I compliment the Commissioner on looking into it.
There was also a Commission communication in 2009 on the prevention of natural or manmade disasters in general.
Mr Kelly, you are talking about fairly recent directives but the same thing applies to these and all the other directives, as soon as they become operative: the Commission must and will verify how the Member States are applying or not applying these directives.
Apropos what Mr Kelly raised, and that is the implementation of the Floods Directive: as you know, it has to be transposed into national law this year, 2010, in all 27 Member States.
In relation to this, I would like to ask you about the following matter - should a rapid reaction centre not be established faster in Europe?
You are right, however, that the key issue lies in national and even regional or local powers in the areas of building or suitability for building.
This work led me to propose the creation of a European civil protection force provided by Member States on a voluntary basis.
Naturally, the responses cannot be the same for an industrial disaster, for a disaster such as the Erika, for flooding in Germany or France, for fires in Greece, for a tsunami, for major pandemics or even for a terrorist attack such as 11 September, which could still unfortunately occur in Europe.
The aim of this idea on which my colleagues are working - we shall come back to you with some concrete proposals - is to prepare a joint planned response.
Member of the Commission. - I very much share the concerns expressed in this question about the welfare and well-being of Europeans, the questions on employment and social protection and fighting poverty.
The Member States are responsible for the financing and organisation of social protection systems, with the Commission supporting them in this task.
However, I would have liked us also to discuss briefly the process of deindustrialisation which is going on in many Member States and which is one of the causes of the economic and social crisis we are going through.
Therefore, what measures on European industrial policy will be included in the current Commission's programme of work, which will be able to boost the European Union's competitiveness but, above all, generate new jobs, thereby making it possible to guarantee European citizens a decent living?
I already mentioned the one which focuses on poverty, but concerning the quantity and quality of jobs in Europe we have the 'new skills in jobs' flagship initiative; and under the sustainability pillar of Europe 2020, there is a flagship initiative on industrial policy.
I think this is a crucial point in the context of this question, because it has to be recognised that European Union instruments should not only target the impact of companies leaving Europe, like the Globalisation Fund.
The problem of poverty which my fellow Member raised in her question in connection with Europe and the statistics which I have given you for Greece are due, in my opinion, to the failure of the neoliberal economic model championed by the Treaty of Lisbon and included in the text of the 2020 strategy.
Concerning the abuse and the effectiveness of the social protection systems, indeed, the crisis is a test in this respect.
For example, under the Culture Programme in 2009, 749 applications were submitted and 256 plans were selected for funding, the main objective of 127 of which was the mobility of people working in the cultural sector.
Please note that the programme does not primarily target the national authorities; it targets people working in the cultural sector.
Following two rounds of pilot studies on the mobility of artists inaugurated by the European Parliament for 2008 and 2009, and bearing in mind the talks already held within the framework of the open method of coordination, the Commission is currently evaluating the progress made to date and looking at ways of improving the application of the current programme.
I am afraid that this practice may no longer be the exception and I therefore ask you, Commissioner, if you have condemned these practices and if, within the framework of the programme we are debating, but not only within that framework, the Commission plans to adopt a more decisive, a more - if I may say so - aggressive policy to promote culture ... (The President cut off the speaker) If you do not mind, I would rather not comment just now on articles in various publications, because I do not think we shall get anywhere by responding to articles like this.
The initial results of these consultations were presented to interested stakeholders at a conference on sustainable funding models for grass-root sport in the internal market, organised by the study contractor on 16 February in Brussels.
Of course, in the meantime, as you very well know, we have the ongoing sport actions in 2009, 2010 and 2011, focusing on grass-root sport and the social aspect of sport.
Of course, as you very well know, unfortunately, the budget for 2010 has been cut from EUR 6 million to EUR 3 million.
According to the budget that we have for 2011, we have new actions and new testing material in order to formulate our programme for 2012 and 2013. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Vassiliou, I would like to express enormous thanks for the declaration concerning the establishment of a new agenda for sport, but I would also like to present a certain idea related to this, which the Committee on Culture and Education is also talking about.
Mrs Vassiliou, do you anticipate joining in the discussion on the new and very important aspect of key skills for young people throughout the European Union, so that the questions of sport, knowledge about the European Union and knowledge about culture, which are so important for building a European identity, will also be emphasised and accentuated?
Many of those actions have involved the European Parliament under the codecision procedure.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Of course, the shift in modality, as it is called, to have a preference for the transport of goods by rail, is also a clear preference for the Commission, but that has been a desire for decades.
Regarding actions to address casualties and deaths in road traffic accidents, this Commission had, during this action plan, the ambitious target of reducing the number of deaths by 50%.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The train accident in Buizingen on Monday, 15 February was a shocking tragedy and, in the aftermath of this serious accident, several technical and political questions concerning rail safety can be asked.
Two investigators from the European Railway Agency joined the Belgian team in charge of the investigation just a few hours after the accident had occurred.
I also see no relationship between the accident and the reasoned opinion we sent to Belgium in 2008 regarding the lack of independence between infrastructure managers and rail undertakings.
The question of the coexistence of national and European train control systems can be put in these terms.
More than 20 different national systems are used in Europe today to ensure the safe movement of trains.
The system is known as ERTMS, the European Rail Traffic Management System.
As regards the timing, most of the national systems were developed in the early 1980s, but their deployment is a long and costly process.
In most of the countries where these systems exist, only part of the national networks and locomotives have been equipped to date, and this partial installation of the equipment took approximately 20 years.
ERTMS specifications have been available since 2000.
We see, for example, that the Italian and Spanish high-speed network is already almost fully equipped, that the conventional network of Luxembourg is also almost fully equipped, while in 15 Member States, there are only pilot lines or projects.
Appropriate training, sound maintenance and better protection of level crossings are other important components for safety.
If we take a broader range of safety indicators, overall data show that railway safety standards in Europe are generally very high. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, the lessons to be learned from this tragedy are indeed a matter for the Belgian services: the Belgian Government.
There is always national legislation as well, and these are primarily questions for national legislation also, but that is a question we should certainly look at.
So it does not mean that we can find one very simple answer as to why this accident happened. (PL) Mr Kallas, I think we should draw conclusions from this tragedy.
People are happy and this question has not been raised again. (PL) Mr President, Mr Kallas, one doubt I have is related to the fact that some countries in Europe, for example, the United Kingdom, use a different time in relation to continental Europe, and this lack of change does not cause problems there.
Anti-terrorism activities must be conducted with full respect for the principle of the rule of law and the full respect of fundamental rights as they are enshrined at the level of the European Union in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I have many questions here, but not this one. (The President proposed that the question be answered in writing) I shall be perfectly happy to get a reply from the Commissioner in writing.
Vice-President of the Commission. - You are aware that one of the values on which the European Union is founded is the respect for the rights of persons who belong to minorities, and with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, this is explicitly mentioned in Article 2 of the treaty.
Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights explicitly prohibits any discrimination on grounds of language or membership of a national minority.
I would like to tell the honourable Member that I hope that more Member States would follow the example of those who have already signed and ratified those important conventions. (DE) Commissioner, that last point relates to precisely what I am concerned about.
The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights has, of course, some objectives to fulfil but, if Parliament or the Commission ask the Agency to accomplish a certain task, the Agency will certainly do that.
Therefore, I would ask the Member to hand me the questions he would like to ask the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights to tackle and I will see what can be done in a positive way. (FR) Mr President, I fully understand the timing requirements.
