Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am pleased to inform you that, when the plane was touching down this morning in Strasbourg, I got the good news that the Hungarian Prime Minister has agreed to amend the media law so that it complies with all aspects of EU law that we, the European Commission have raised, including the concerns raised regarding the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The body language of the representatives of the Hungarian Government gives me the feeling that this is correct and that it will be tabled in the Hungarian Parliament within the coming days.
It is quite clear that we need an approach to measuring media pluralism in a broad sense; one that will bring together legal, economic and social aspects, rather than treating them quite separately, as has often been the case up until now.
We would not be in this situation if my fellow Members had listened to us when, on previous occasions - in committee meetings and discussions in this Chamber - we asked if it was possible to wait for a while, because the Hungarian Government had, after all, always proved willing to accommodate the European Commission's views - and it would have been strange if it had been any other way, given that Hungary currently holds the Presidency of the European Union.
That was the text of our resolution; that was the pressure we were placing on you and the Hungarian authorities to deliver.
We also encourage the implementation of amendments to address the outstanding areas of concern for all of us in this Parliament, whilst fully embracing the spirit of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and, in particular, Article 11, which protects the freedom of expression.
We make no apologies within our group for firmly defending this principle and we will do everything in our power to protect it, for Hungarians and all EU citizens.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, my first questions are for Commissioner Kroes.
You, Mrs Kroes, have said that the Hungarian Government has so far made four amendments.
Let us discuss actual violations, those that have already occurred. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure) (DE) If I have understood you correctly, you said that there are restrictions on the freedom of expression and freedom of the press in many countries in Europe.
What the Commission actually meant to say was that we would not abandon our fellow Europeans from any country to censorship and restrictions on freedom of expression.
The criticisms and attacks rained down on the Hungarian Government, in conjunction with the EU Presidency, with regard to the Hungarian media law's alleged total failure to comply with European legislation, have been reduced to what they really are: an instrumental and specious attempt that, apart from anything else, is based entirely on ideological bias, which is even more shameful when it is used against a country that today has the struggle for freedom encoded in its DNA - and this has indeed been the case throughout its history, which we all remember very well.
When this issue first came up last month, I said that politicising this issue was not just attacking a Member State, but was also undermining the EU Presidency.
I am pleased - and I will gladly acknowledge - that the Hungarian Government has answered the questions that have been put to it extremely well.
We still have problems with regard to the fact that we have a Commission that is supposed to be the guardian of the Treaty and take a stand with regard to the problems with Hungary's media law.
For example, Article 21 of the Italian Constitution does in fact guarantee freedom of information, but it also directly prohibits publications that are contrary to public morality.
The 1948 law on the freedom of the press in Italy, which no one has ever challenged, lays down an obligation not for authorisation but for registration of any publication, as does the Hungarian law.
I am therefore grateful to the Commission and to the Hungarian Government. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, efforts to reduce the freedom of the media are a general European phenomenon.
As a patriot, I am particularly saddened by the fact that it was the Hungarian media law that sparked heated debates in the European Parliament and other European institutions.
The EU's criticism marks a political defeat for the Hungarian right wing.
Both the Commission and the European Parliament must intently monitor the effects the amended Hungarian laws will have on freedom of speech and the freedom of the press in Hungary.
Moreover, I am disappointed that Commissioner Reding, who is responsible for fundamental rights, has not been involved in the issue of this controversial law.
I call on you to get to work on this as soon as possible because media freedom, and consequently the quality of media reporting, is already under serious threat in other parts of Europe, too. (NL) Mr President, it seems to me that we are all agreed that the Hungarian Government has done the right thing in removing all doubts today and made it clear that there is a free press in Budapest and no lack of media pluralism.
In addition, the objection about the political bias of the composition of the Media Council under this law is totally unfair.
However, in this House so far, only the extreme right and the left have had the right to blue card interventions.
Mr Szájer, I do not give a blue-card question to people according to which political group they belong.
As it turns out, in this debate, the first blue cards were raised by certain people, but then the time ran out, so I said that for no-one - be they from the centre, right or left - would there be time for more blue-card questions.
I apologise to you and the others, but I assure you that this was not a political choice. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Kroes, President-in-Office of the Council, I would first like to thank you, Mrs Kroes, for having taken up this debate so promptly and for entering into negotiations with the Hungarian Government.
However, above all I would like to thank the Hungarian Government for keeping the promise it made in all of the hearings and prior discussions and at the start of the debate, namely that if there was a need for amendments to be made, it would also adequately implement these amendments.
The Commission, as guardian of this legislation, has done its job very well in the past.
The debate that we are having today would not have been necessary if there had been more trust in the work of the Commission as guardian of the legislation, because the fact that the system works can be seen by the results that we have been informed of today, namely that adjustments have been made in the areas in which the law was not completely in line with EU legislation.
I hope that the various political groups will also stop their political games and withdraw the resolutions in question. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, as has been said, the Hungarian Government and the Commission have, contrary to what some are implying, agreed today on the amendment of the Hungarian media law; on the specific text.
Consequently I am pleased this evening, but I am vigilant.
This needed to be done and you did well to address this matter.
I am also pleased that you are once more showing greater respect for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, rights which your people have always craved in the course of recent history.
I therefore call on both the Council and the Commission to make informal contact with the Conference of Presidents, so as to allow for the necessary and essential exchange of information that will enable Parliament to vote tomorrow, even before the resolutions, on a decision not to proceed with a vote, thus putting an end to ideological debates. (RO) Mr President, the assertions that you have made, Commissioner, confirm that the European Parliament was right when it levelled harsh criticism against Hungary's press law.
The fact that the Hungarian Government decided to implement such a large number of changes and reforms in such a short space of time probably meant that insufficient attention was paid to the possible consequences of some of the provisions of the law.
You have been quite clear, so there has been no doubt about what is at stake - no doubt about what every party in this House thinks on this question.
Of course our friends in this Member State within the family of Europe are aware that, for those in the chair, noblesse oblige.
We have to acknowledge - whether it furthers our case or not - that the governing party holds a two-thirds majority, and that, in a democracy, is a simple fact. (Applause) On the question of the application of Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we are applying the directive - the AVMS Directive - and the Treaty, and that implies of course applying Article 11 of the Charter.
Mr Moraes said there was no judicial review of decisions by the media authority.
If we take press freedom as a basic European principle, that should be the starting point and the ultimate end in all our thinking on this subject.
On the matter of the absence of reference to Article 30 - and a number of Members have asked about that - I know that many of you have complained that the Commission has not taken Article 30 fully into account when assessing the media law.
Although in its original proposal for the AVMS Directive the Commission had included an obligation on the Member States to guarantee the independence of the national regulatory authorities - and I know full well that your memory on such matters is excellent - that provision was not supported by the Council and, despite strong support from the European Parliament, it was changed into the current Article 30 of the AVMS Directive.
The Hungarian authorities have agreed to delete the provision in question and add the following declaratory text to Article 10 of the Media Constitution, and I quote: 'It is the task for the entirety of the media system to provide authentic, rapid and accurate information on such affairs and events'.
But I can assure you that both sides worked like hell and that they did their jobs not just in the proper way but in a constructive way, in order to find a solution, because this is a very important matter, and we have to find a solution. (IT) Mr President, I urge the Commissioner, as a procedural matter, to have the texts she referred to sent out tonight, at least to the group chairs, so that tomorrow we can be as confident as possible before expressing our vote.
The Hungarian minister's body language is also saying yes.
The Commission scrutinised carefully the law, made some proposals and all these proposals were adopted.
I would like to thank the Commission for its hard work, help and assistance, but I would also like to thank all of you who made fair and reasonable comments and assisted us in this exercise, which I am convinced has been extremely important, not only for ourselves, but also for the European Union as a whole.
In fact, it was harmful to the interests of Europe as a whole - it was harmful to European integration.
I just would like to confirm again our full respect and to testify to this I would just like to let you know that it is our firm intention to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the new Hungarian Constitution.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (HU) In their motion for a resolution, my fellow Members request that the European Commission also take into account the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights when scrutinising the Hungarian media law, and if the government fails to amend the law as desired within a fixed deadline, launch an infringement procedure against Hungary.
Similarly, my fellow Members also request that the Commission initiate, still in this year, a European regulatory framework to ensure the assertion of the freedom of the media in the Member States.
I am very pleased to note that increasing attention is being accorded to the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and I therefore propose that the Commission also examine the application of the Charter, and in particular Articles 21 and 22 thereof, in the case of the Slovak language law.
