Amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Brok and Mr Gualtieri, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with regard to a stability mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro (00033/2010 - C7-0014/2011 - 2010/0821/NLE)).
My third point relates to the revision of the Treaty that we have paved the way for and on which the European Council can only decide on 24 March if we have given our opinion by that point.
I hope that the European Council is ready - and I welcome Mr Corbett, as representative of the European Council - to create the necessary conditions in the talks with us by 24 March and to give Parliament the assurance that this approach can be used in such a way that the necessary steps can be designed in a sensible way and so that we can bear our responsibility together.
Furthermore, since the treaty states two clear things; that the monetary policy of the Member States whose currency is the euro is an exclusive competence of the European Union, and that the Member States must coordinate their economic policy within the framework of the Union, as the treaty states, a mechanism that operates completely outside the European Union's institutional structure would scarcely be compatible with these principles and would therefore result in a reduction of the European Union's powers, which would not be compatible with a simplified revision procedure.
Likewise for this reason, Parliament would have preferred a different, more institutionally appropriate and less politically risky procedure, such as Article 352, either alone or in combination with Article 136.
The central point is that the permanent stability fund will be created by the Member States because that is what they decided, but it may also lay the foundations for a new structure lying outside the EU institutions or it might be an intergovernmental wagon within a European Union train, travelling down the tracks of European law.
That is why the Commission supports a limited change to Article 136 of the Treaty.
Like both rapporteurs, Mr Brok and Mr Gualtieri, - who I very much thank for their excellent cooperation on these files - and, I am sure, most of Parliament, we would have preferred the Union to be fully in charge of this permanent mechanism.
In particular, although European Heads of State or Government agreed that Article 122, the legal basis for the European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism, should no longer be used to maintain financial stability in the euro area as a whole, President Barroso did not - as you know - associate himself with this declaration.
We cannot destroy the markets but we can try to bring them under control.
Mr President, we all agree that there needs to be a permanent financial mechanism for euro area countries.
The issue is that although everybody is in favour of this concept, it is, however, not defined anywhere in the Council's proposal.
This is essential for Parliament, and I believe that it is essential for this mechanism.
The second point, and it is one that is very important for us, is that the stability fund is only one of the factors.
Having said that, I would like to highlight three very important paragraphs of the report: paragraph 6, which involves all Member States regardless of their size; paragraph 12, which states that access to the fund cannot be denied to any state based on its small size; and paragraph 14, which I believe to be the most important, as it establishes, on the one hand, that interest rates must be offered on favourable terms, so that there is not a repeat of what is currently happening with Greece and Ireland, whose problems are not being solved by aid from the EU or International Monetary Fund.
It is vital that there be favourable conditions and a back-to-back approach without margins on borrowing costs, so that the financial crises in the most fragile Member States can be resolved.
Parliament, in my opinion, must do what is needed, which is to establish this mechanism, to help to put this financial stability mechanism into action, while, at the same time, ensuring that what is needed is done in the best and most desirable way.
Lastly, following the adoption of our report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we hope that the Council will be sensitive to our request, because we believe it will strengthen this permanent stability mechanism and therefore contribute to the economic governance of the Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the Prime Minister has told us that we should do whatever needs to be done to stabilise the euro but, in fact, this is only the minimum that is required to be done.
Mr President, I find it remarkable that unease now reigns in the majority of the groups in this House in respect of approving the use of a fast-track procedure for the amendment of Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Both the Labour Party and the Conservative Party pledged to have a vote on the Lisbon Treaty.
Moreover, I should like to emphasise that the Council must see these issues as fundamental for harmonious cooperation between the European institutions.
I therefore strongly urge the European Council to take heed of this requirement and the consideration that it must give us, ahead of our vote on 24 March.
Thank you, Mr President. (ES) Mr President, I would like to say that I agree with the opinion of the members who have spoken here this morning and who insist on respect for Parliament and for the Commission.
Fellow Members, Europe is being built one brick at a time, and this is one brick that will reinforce and balance this delicate building. (DE) Mr President, we must not forget, in this debate, that we are dealing with a simplified Treaty revision pursuant to Article 136 and that we, as Parliament - in connection with whatever mechanisms - are supposed to be more heavily involved.
That is why we are having this debate and will not be taking a decision until 24 March, in order to give the Council the chance to actually bring about that participation in reality.
We should therefore support the careful amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Pierre Werner, whose plan may be regarded as the fundamental basis of the euro, included in his work the notion of a European economic decision-making centre that is answerable to Parliament.
For this reason, the presence of the Commission on the board will be the key to providing a common thread to the relationship between the current institutional framework and the mechanism to be amended.
It is not about any dispute between the institutions.
Therefore, the permanent financial stability mechanism should be open to all Member States, including those from outside the euro area.
The stability mechanism should represent the first part of a complex approach and permanent measures aimed at working towards the Union's economic governance.
For the first time, the Treaty of Lisbon provides real powers for the European Parliament where revising the Treaties is concerned.
In my view, it is crucial that we link our consent for the Commission's six proposals to having our demands met in the other areas, so that everything becomes one well-balanced package in the interests of the citizens. (SK) Mr President, a number of EU Member States agreed to create and use one common currency.
The solution agreed on by the countries involved, however, requires an amendment and a supplement to Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and acceptance of this solution by all EU Member States.
As stated in Annex 2 of the European Council conclusions, the role of the Commission is expected to be central in the preparation of analyses and programmes for the future countries in it.
Thank you, Mr Šefčovič.
It must also take into account the participation of all 27 Member States.
We must not forget that the economic fluctuations which occur in Member States outside the euro area have an impact on the economic and financial stability of the whole Union.
It is for this reason that a change to Article 136 of the Treaty, creating a stabilisation mechanism after 2013, is desirable for the EU's future financial and fiscal stability.
The situation is still fraught with difficulty, but I am convinced that Europe will overcome this crisis and become economically more powerful.
