Kyrgyzstan has attracted quite some media and political attention, and I have followed developments closely from the beginning, making two statements, one on 7 April and the other on 8 April.
The resignation of the President, on the basis of Article 50 of the present Kyrgyz Constitution, and his departure from the country is expected to reduce political tension.
Although President Bakiyev has officially resigned, the provisional government needs to commit to a clear plan for how to return to constitutional and democratic order and the rule of law.
Representatives of all parties and ethnic groups should be able to contribute to a new draft constitution before it is submitted to a referendum.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for your assessment of the situation.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I would also like to thank you for your statement.
However, the situation in Kazakhstan is also far from ideal.
Against this background, we need to make a new attempt to put in place a strategy for Central Asia which covers the economy, democracy and humanity.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, we know how much people hoped in 2005 at the time of the Tulip Revolution that everything would change when a new president came into office who genuinely took seriously the needs and interests of the people with regard to democracy and codetermination.
After the riots of 7 April, a provisional government was put in place, but for all that, Mr Bakiyev does not seem to have given up, even though he has left the country, and yesterday new riots actually took place, as you said, in the south of the country and around the capital.
Our undertaking, Commissioner, can and must be to prevent this country from swinging towards fundamentalism and a new authoritarian regime.
This is the key to ensuring that the country plays a major role in this region of the world.
It is important that the EU take a decisive position on the situation in Kyrgyzstan in this strategically important country.
The people who were governing up to yesterday and the people who overturned them are all cogs in the same corrupt system.
The people of Kyrgyzstan are a peace-loving people and I imagine that many of you will have got to know them through the book by the famous author Chingiz Aitmatov, who was ambassador in Brussels up to 4 years ago.
If the European Union wants to play an effective peacekeeping role, it needs to act now. (RO) The situation in Kyrgyzstan is giving particular cause for concern.
This country has a strategic position in Central Asia.
Mrs Ashton, the European Union must focus particular attention on the conflict in Kyrgyzstan, provide humanitarian aid and get involved in stabilising the situation. (SL) Madam Ashton, we are here to discuss the alarming events in Kyrgyzstan and to help as much as we can to stabilise the situation in this country.
Lastly, Central Asia is a strategic region for reasons of energy and global security and the operational capability of the US air base in Kyrgyzstan is vitally important to support ISAF in Afghanistan as well. (PL) Mr President, five years after the Tulip Revolution, when President Akayev stood down, a bloody revolution has taken place.
Over 80 fatalities is a bad signal for the building of Kyrgyzstan.
One week after the fall of the government of former President Bakiyev, who fled his country by plane on 15 April, no one has any idea about the country's final political destination or future political intentions.
The tension is now spreading to neighbouring countries, and the European Union must take note of the priority and the opportunity arising at this time, which is, above all, to put paid to a possible civil war and help the country move towards a democratic parliamentary republic with a stable presidency within the next six months.
European foreign policy should help to defuse the situation.
A crucial aspect of this initiative concerns a fundamental value: respect for cultural and linguistic diversity.
Amadou Hampâté Bâ, a Malian intellectual, said: 'In Africa, when an old person dies, it is a library that burns'.
Together, the people who have been in the region in the last few days have made this point consistently that we need to see the importance of reform as central to what happens next and I agree completely about the political stability of the region.
It is core to everything that we will do in the country to make sure that there is indeed the rule of law in operation and that applies in the legal system of course, but also in the political and constitutional reform that is so essential.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I welcome the fact that the European Union's Special Representative has been sent to Kyrgyzstan.
