Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I welcome very much the opportunity to discuss with you what I believe is an evolving Arctic policy in the European Union.
As you know, the Commission published its Arctic Communication in late 2008, which was welcomed by the Council, and that was followed in December 2009 by extensive conclusions on Arctic issues.
As you know, the Commission has been asked to prepare a follow-up report in June 2011, and that will be another opportunity to further develop our thinking together.
Where raw materials are concerned, specifically, we have the potential for cooperation - but there is also the potential for conflict if we do not approach this in the right way.
Mr President, a while ago, US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, stated in an interview how difficult her job was and said that it was about moving from one crisis to the next.
Baroness Ashton, I suppose you must have felt the same sort of anguish by now, and that is why we greatly appreciate the fact that you are initiating a debate on Arctic policy so early on and that over the weekend, you are going to Lapland, which is part of the Arctic region.
That is why the European Union must take urgent action and draw up its own Arctic policy.
It is very important to strengthen the status of the Arctic Council, and for that reason, we must now have a greater influence on Canada and Russia in particular, so that the European Union can have a stronger role to play.
I believe that the original Commission communication was an amazing document in the way it brought together many cross-cutting issues across a number of DGs in the Commission.
It is quite obvious that climate change is taking place faster in the Arctic than elsewhere.
The melting process also allows toxins that have accumulated over many years to be released into the environment.
Moreover, the indigenous peoples are largely being ignored in all this.
Furthermore, the indigenous peoples should be included in all decisionmaking processes that relate to the region.
In 1985, Greenland chose to leave the EU but, when Sweden and Finland joined 10 years later, they substantially enlarged the EU's interest in the Arctic region.
The European Union should not hesitate now to do so as well and the Arctic Council, in my view, is the best arena in which to do so.
The contributions of our ally, Norway, and Iceland, now an aspiring EU Member State, have further galvanised European participation in the Arctic Forum.
This is vital because Russia has left us in little doubt as to its own designs on the Arctic, famously planting a Russian flag on the seabed of the North Pole in 2007.
There is the question of natural resources, in that the Arctic region offers enormous riches.
The major issue facing the Commission is whether it should work towards making the Arctic a demilitarised area, and should that be the case, which specific initiatives it should take in that direction.
There is no doubt that living conditions in the beautiful Arctic area are harsh, but there is equally no doubt that, with new technologies and advances, the area will inevitably be opened up for greater exploitation of its natural resources, with fisheries being a prime example.
The same document also, quite rightly, makes mention of the need to protect indigenous peoples and local populations, using the statistic that about one third of the four million people who live in the area are indigenous to the area - again, a very laudable objective.
The top-down approach of always controlling and setting policy targets and methods from Brussels has been an abject failure, yet the inference from the 2008 document and from the Foreign Affairs Council of December 2009 is that the EU will use the same approach in the Arctic region.
Development of international trade and increased need for natural resources has caused a growth in interest in the region.
As a result of rapid shrinking of the Arctic ice cap, new possibilities for exploitation of the region have arisen.
Research infrastructure, development of multipartite management of the Arctic based on the UN convention and involvement of the local Arctic population are only some of the elements which must be contained in future European Arctic strategy, whose aim will be to maintain a balance between protection of the natural environment and sustainable use of its resources. (EL) May I extend a welcome to the High Representative for Foreign Affairs.
The landmark year was 2007, when the ice receded by 34% compared with the period from 1970-2000.
In 2007, the temperature rose by 2° between August and October.
The role of the European Union should not be to win an international geopolitical competition for oil and shipping lanes in the Arctic.
The European Union, of course, has a central role to play in Arctic policy.
When it comes to the indigenous peoples of this region, though, in particular, it is about more than protection that we grant from outside; it is about respect for their right to self-determination.
Mr Gahler, you spoke about the potential for conflict.
However, we must take care, when considering new governance structures - and I understood this to be your position, High Representative - to move forwards in an inclusive manner, and to acknowledge that other organisations, too, want to be involved here. (DA) Madam President, I see that both the Commission and the High Representative have taken the view that the EU should lay down a policy for the Arctic.
Having said that, I do not think that the EU should have a policy for the area, nor do I think that the EU should take on an administrative role in the Arctic region.
In my view, we should leave the Arctic to those countries which are directly involved in the region.
So the Arctic summer ice will not vanish by 2013 and polar bears have not, and will not, drown because of global warming.
Of course, this must take place in consultation and collaboration with the local population on the basis of the actual situation and the current conditions.
The Commission's report on the Arctic is a positive first step towards a coherent policy on the Arctic.
Due to the impact of global warming, new maritime routes have opened up in the Arctic, offering opportunities to transport oil, gas and other natural resources, but at the same time, this region is becoming very vulnerable because of environmental problems and the division of its resources between states and this may have negative consequences for international stability and the interests of European security.
The European Parliament has underlined the importance of the governance of the Arctic on more than one occasion.
I think that now that the situation has changed, we must gradually begin to form an autonomous European Union policy and the European Commission should, in turn, play an active role in this matter.
I believe that the European Union must initiate a comprehensive dialogue with the other countries and this would open the door to new opportunities for cooperation.
I feel that it is also time to start thinking about an international convention on the governance of this region. (ET) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, as well as the considerable changes in the natural environment, we must also keep in mind the fact that the thawing of the Arctic Ocean, which has accelerated, has opened up the possibility of a race for new natural resources.
This could, however, give rise to a potential security threat to relations between the European Union and other countries.
Despite the idea arising from the European Commission's Arctic Strategy to engage in cooperation with neighbouring countries in matters concerning adjacent territories, since the turn of the millennium, Russia has not shown any willingness to consider our wishes.
I believe that we should implement targeted policies towards Russia in order to avoid a competitive race. (ET) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, thank you for immediately dealing with this most important subject during the start of your stressful term of office.
I believe that, in the dialogue between the European Union and Russia on human rights, the question should be asked of whether the indigenous Arctic people living in the Russian Federation get enough involvement in the work of the Arctic Council.
As many of our fellow Members have said, the race is on for the natural resources and administration of the Arctic region.
The Arctic Council has concentrated on environmental and research cooperation, but the agreements that focus on the use of natural resources have brought with them a growing need to develop international administration strategies, and the EU, too, may have a role to play here.
I would therefore urge High Representative Ashton to make a decision on the form an EU Arctic Centre should take, its location and its tasks, thus raising the EU's profile in Arctic policy.
With that in mind, I am very grateful to the High Representative for the fact that she is tackling and prioritising this issue.
In my opinion, what has so far been discussed in the European Parliament, and also in the Commission, such as in its 2008 proposal, which has also been referred to, is far too defensive.
In this matter, the question posed by Mrs Ashton would appear to be very appropriate - how can the European Union be a responsible player in the area of problems connected with the Arctic?
There are, of course, dangers associated with this - dangers for the environment in connection with the use of raw materials and fishing, but also for the indigenous people of the region, and that is something of which we must also be particularly aware.
I would like to say it should be noted that the five Arctic countries are not specially interested in legal regulations, but the Union should, however, be playing an important role in this part of the world, not only by its presence, but principally by its involvement and knowledge.
It is essential to build mutual trust, and we can build that mutual trust by an initiative in the area of regulation, such as, for example, the Arctic Charter. (RO) I would like to take the floor in my capacity as rapporteur of this Parliament for Iceland.
I believe that this fact is all the more important, given that the European Union has not been given, unfortunately, observer status in this forum.
As a result of melting, the extraction potential in the new territories will increase to 200 m below the surface, involving millions of square kilometres.
The ice cover has already shrunk by half.
Madam High Representative, I come from a country which seemingly has nothing to do with the Arctic, but I can assure you that even in the Czech Republic, many citizens are interested in what position the Union will adopt as far as foreign policy is concerned, including influencing the future of the Arctic.
Take an active coordinating role in reaching international agreements on all of these issues relating to the Arctic.
The Union should not look on passively, but should negotiate actively and thereby prevent the escalation of conflicts and of the harm to nature. (DA) Madam President, it is important that the EU is involved in the debate on the Arctic and it is also good that the EU is engaging with the region, where many interests and concerns are at stake.
In this connection, we need stable and dependable treaties with the other partners in the Arctic.
We need dialogue in the field of environmental protection in order to conserve natural resources and nature.
We need dialogue in the field of animal protection in order to conserve the biodiversity, and we need protection and respect for the local inhabitants and their human rights.
Before we do so, I just want to clarify that, if, as the President of the debate, I feel speech is being used which tends to disrupt the business of the House, I am fully within my rights to stop that person from speaking. (FI) Madam President, firstly, I would like to express my sincerest thanks to the High Representative for including this important issue in the agenda at such an early stage.
I truly hope that the Commission and the whole of the European Union will have a strong role to play in Arctic policy and that the EU will formulate its own Arctic strategy.
A common Arctic policy will create boundless opportunities for the whole of the European Union, in terms of its security, environment, energy, transport, and its indigenous peoples.
Firstly, I hope that the Arctic Council, as an administrative body, will continue to grow in strength and that the European Union will have a strong role to play in it.
This place looks more and more like the Soviet Union every day. (DE) Madam President, if, in future, methane, with its considerably higher warming potential than CO2, is emitted from the Arctic Ocean in greater quantities as a result of the thawing of the sea bed, we will have a highly dangerous new variable in the sensitive climate system - a variable that urgently requires closer investigation.
Ultimately, the suspected oil and gas reserves to be found there could guarantee Europe's energy independence. (DE) Madam President, High Representative, I would like to stress one more time very clearly that, as well as the self-evidently important areas such as environmental and energy issues, the question of shipping routes has a very special role to play.
I would very much like to encourage you to continue on this route in this EU Arctic debate. (RO) The Arctic region, just like Antarctica, is particularly vulnerable to climate change.
As a leading advocate of the battle against climate change, the European Union must adopt a firm stance on the Arctic region.
If you had a school report on your first 100 days, it would say 'you must do better', but the reality is that if you were in the office for 100 years, you would still be a failure.
The passion with which people have spoken about the importance of what we do in terms of policy for the Arctic is extremely important for me as I take forward what I believe we should be doing in the future.
We have to continue to underline that the European Union wants to work together with all the stakeholders concerned in the Arctic to make sure that we face the challenges appropriately.
For my part, I think we have much to contribute, from our diplomacy on environment to our climate change policies; from our extensive Arctic research programmes to our policy supporting indigenous policies worldwide.
Concerning Rovaniemi and the possibility of a centre, there are two possibilities: one is an individual centre, or there is the possibility of networking different centres, and we certainly need to examine that as well.
Written statements (Rule 149) The issues linked to the Arctic region, ranging from the effects of global warming to the use of the resources and navigation in this region, have attracted ever-growing attention recently.
The melting of the icebergs in the Arctic region, the growing need for resources and recent technological progress are some of the reasons why the Arctic region has become an area of particular interest to each of us.
I think that the European strategy for this zone must focus on protecting and conserving the region, promoting sustainable use of the resources in the context of multilateral governance and, above all, on involving the population of this region in all these measures.
The European Union must adopt an unequivocal position on this.
We must remember that this is a completely new situation for the people of the far north, and also for the fauna and flora.
in writing. - The Arctic has long been absent from our agenda, but now it is once again drawing the attention of politicians and academics.
The growing concern over the region is a consequence of climate change causing the melting of the Arctic ice cap.
We have witnessed economic, political, even military rivalry in this region.
