So energy savings are also a crucial part of the report because, if we meet our energy savings targets, we are already on the path of achieving 25% domestically in the EU.
If we are stepping up climate ambitions through energy savings and we only do something relating to energy savings, the carbon price will go down; studies estimate from EUR 15 to EUR 0 per tonne carbon.
The amendment to paragraph 3 would destroy the entire report.
If a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions is pointless, a 30% reduction is thus even more so.
I will therefore vote against. (DE) Madam President, I believe that Fukushima has also changed the world with regard to CO2 emissions.
Even if the European Union adopts the tightest possible limits on greenhouse gas emissions, the outcome will be the same if China, India and other developing countries do not also adopt such limits at the same time.
If it is true that a month's worth of greenhouse gas emissions in China corresponds to an annual 20% decrease in Europe, then this says a lot. (RO) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Eickhout for drafting this report.
We continue to attach great importance to the target of limiting global warming to 2°C.
It is clear that we must also analyse the interim stages on the timeline between 2020 and 2050 and define additional interim targets.
We have said that Europe will reduce emissions by 30% if other important regions of the world are prepared to make binding agreements, because the climate is a global issue.
During the last year, the Commission discussed and adopted a communication which highlights the options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% in line with the conclusions, in other words, a reduction of 30%.
I believe that innovation, in particular in the area of the environment, offers significant opportunities for engineers and technicians, for adding value in a variety of ways and, therefore, for creating jobs.
However, the quantity of steel, aluminium and copper needed in Europe and in the rest of the world should, as far as possible, be manufactured here in Europe, at least if it is currently produced here.
I would prefer jobs in the steel industry and steel production to remain in Europe with a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions, rather than see them move to Brazil, Malaysia or America, where the CO2 emissions levels would be 100%.
We will be submitting a report, as we promised today in the proposal on energy efficiency, about whether the increase in efficiency will lead to a significant change in the market for CO2.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 June 2011.
Written statements (Rule 149) I take this opportunity to express my opposition to a unilateral increase in the European target for greenhouse gas emission reductions to beyond 20% by 2020, given the lack of a global climate agreement involving all the major emitters.
In conclusion, I share the concerns expressed by Italian industry representatives that industry is currently not in a position to sign up to more ambitious commitments than those already established by the European Council and confirmed by the Commission in the Emissions Trading Directive.
The Commission Roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy in 2050 suggests that achieving the 20% energy efficiency target would automatically lead to a 25% reduction in emissions, without any change to the current legislative framework.
The climate and energy package needs to be revised in order to ensure that the Member States are better adapted to reducing emissions.
in writing. - (FI) The European Climate and Energy Policy is characterised by an abundance of irrational solutions.
In general, we agree with the implementation of the 3 x 20 objectives which have already been set, but the scale and cost of undertakings associated with the possible adoption of a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions would be enormous.
Investors, who are already bearing the costs of keeping up with competition from third countries in which environmental regulations are less rigorous than in Europe, are faced with a dilemma as to whether they should remain in Europe or relocate their companies.
The World Bank also estimates that electricity prices will rise by around 26.2% in Poland, and by 12.6% in the EU as a whole.
The EU's previous target of a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions is already hard to swallow for Polish and Central European industry, due to the high proportion of coal used in their power industries.
in writing. - (HU) The European Union, including Hungary, can only maintain its leading position in combating climate change by introducing new technological and economic solutions and through continuous innovation.
Therefore, raising this target to 30% by 2020 is very realistic.
