the oral question to the Council, by Mrs Nadja Hirsch, Mrs Renate Weber, Mrs Cecilia Wikström, Mr Louis Michel, Mrs Sonia Alfano, Mr Stanimir Ilchev, Mrs Nathalie Griesbeck and Mr Jan Mulder, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, on the transmission of information on the cost of examining asylum seekers' applications in the Member States - B7-0662/2010), the oral question to the Commission, by Mrs Nadja Hirsch, Mrs Renate Weber, Mrs Cecilia Wikström, Mr Louis Michel, Mrs Sonia Alfano, Mr Stanimir Ilchev, Mrs Nathalie Griesbeck and Mr Jan Mulder, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, on the transmission of information on the cost of examining asylum seekers' applications in the Member States - B7-0663/2010), the oral question to the Council, by Mrs Monika Hohlmeier and Mr Simon Busuttil, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the transmission of information on the cost of examining asylum seekers' applications in the Member States - B7-0664/2010), the oral question to the Commission, by Mrs Monika Hohlmeier and Mr Simon Busuttil, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the transmission of information on the cost of examining asylum seekers' applications in the Member States - B7-0665/2010), the oral question to the Council, by Mrs Monika Flašíková Beňová, Mr Claude Moraes, Mrs Sylvie Guillaume, Mrs Carmen Romero López and Mr Antonio Masip Hidalgo, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, on the state of play regarding the Commission proposal for a recast of the Asylum Procedures Directive - B7-0003/2011), the oral question to the Council, by Mrs Hélène Flautre, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the state of play regarding the Asylum Procedures Directive - B7-0004/2011), and the oral question to the Council, by Mr Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, Mr Cornelis de Jong, Mrs Cornelia Ernst and Mrs Marie-Christine Vergiat, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on the transmission of information to Parliament and the Commission on the outstanding issues in the Council on the Asylum Procedures Directive - B7-0002/2011).
Mr President, we have agreed in the European Parliament that we want a common European asylum system to be in place by 2012.
The right of asylum and subsidiary protection is not a tool for general migration into the 27 Member States.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that I think one of the issues for this debate is the establishment of a common European asylum system by 2012, which will finally allow us to stop adding to the worst national practices on asylum.
Mr President, I think the aim of this discussion is to get the Council to finally show its hand, because I have to say that given such an ambitious, not to mention necessary, reform package on asylum, it is unbelievable that all we are getting are snippets of information, some contradictory, as to what is holding the Council up on these proposals that have been on the table for a long time now.
The cost of detaining asylum seekers is prohibitive.
Such a scenario would have enabled us in the European Parliament to say 'no' to a common asylum policy and 'no' to a system modelled on the Dublin Regulation.
Before long, we will end up in a situation where we will, indeed, be able to negotiate a new Dublin Regulation, but still have reached no agreement over asylum procedures or reception, for example.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words.
In your questions, you referred to the September 2010 Commission report on the application of the Asylum Procedures Directive.
Please note that it is the goal of the Hungarian Presidency to prepare the common European asylum system that is scheduled to be created in 2012.
We will do everything in our power to increase harmony between Parliament and the Council on issues related to the procedure as well.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Asylum Procedures Directive is an essential element of the common European asylum system.
It is an unfortunate situation and we should all do our best to unblock the situation.
Thirdly, there is indeed a lack of a financial assessment, of a study to determine costs, and I am afraid I have to disagree with you, Commissioner: I do not think that the study carried out by the European Parliament on burden sharing is about the costs of these proposals.
Mr President, all of the EU's institutions have a deadline of 2012 when the common European asylum system is to be ready.
While the asylum package, which should define a new, more up-to-date frame of reference, is stuck in the Council, a different view has emerged in the Member States regarding the effectiveness of the asylum procedures based on the rules already in force.
I say to the Commissioner and the President-in-Office that you cannot invoke the crisis to reduce the funding needed for an important procedure, or other arguments that I do not find wholly convincing regarding a procedure that is currently stalled.
It is fair that people who cannot remain in their own country for documented political, religious or other reasons should have the right to be received in the Member States, just as it is equally necessary to deny the right to be received if someone claiming to be a refugee actually is not one.
It is true; the Stockholm Programme has strongly stated this principle: 250 000 applications have been made in the last two years, which is a large number, although lower in the last reference year.
It is therefore essential that we move forward on this recast in view of the rapidly approaching 2012 deadline for the creation of the common European asylum system.
We therefore want more information from Member States backing up their claims.
This is what so many of the Members across the party divide want to see; we may want to see different outcomes but we will cooperate, and let us hope in the Hungarian Presidency we can see some genuine progress. (ES) Mr President, in 2012, we urgently need a common asylum policy.
The report presented by the Commission on 8 September highlights the numerous obstacles that the Member States encounter when seeking to achieve the objectives of Directive 2005/85/EC.
However, just a few months ago, in November last year, the Council of Ministers of Justice rejected the inclusion of a mechanism to suspend the transfer of asylum seekers to the revised Dublin II Regulation, as proposed by the Commission since 2008, considering that Dublin II is fine and that there is no problem.
While spending on this has risen in Italy, because it has now reached EUR 30 million, other countries want to reduce it.
Therefore, I would like to ask you specifically to take the concerns of the countries seriously, because some of the practical reports from the countries have already been completed and will be distributed.
The Asylum Procedures Directive is an essential element of the common European asylum system that will need to be established before the end of 2012.
The Commission welcomes the commitment of the European Parliament to proceed with the negotiations on the Asylum Procedures Directive.
The Commission's overall objective regarding this directive is to progress towards a common procedure and to facilitate more consistent and efficient application of procedural standards.
The Hungarian Presidency considers the human factor to be the most important consideration in all EU policies.
