Finally, I would like to touch on a general matter.
Unless we are clear about priorities, including funding in such key activities, half-hearted and patchy decision-making will continue to bring not only the problems mentioned, but also a reduction in the overall quality of projects. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of general economic belt-tightening in which everyone is being asked to make sacrifices, I think it is essential for the European institutions - which operate thanks to the money of European citizens - to have the most transparent financial management possible.
As rapporteur for buildings I would firstly like to say that the figure of EUR 136 million is definitely incorrect.
Moreover, we should make sure that we achieve better coordination of development aid with the Member States and also are able to implement once and for all the integration of the entire development aid budget into the EU budget, because it is incomprehensible why only part of our development aid is included in the EU budget. (LT) Madam President, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent work.
Finally, as for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Parliament for 2009, I believe that Parliament also has to implement realistic decisions which would include better value for money. (FI) Madam President, in my speech I want to focus mainly on cohesion policy.
The Museum of European History is a very controversial proposal, and therefore the majority of the members of our group will vote against the majority of these reports. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European agencies are permanently in the crossfire of criticism.
I should now like to comment principally on the proposals to reform the Staff Regulations.
Structural funds are extremely important for places like Wales - where I come from - where they are implemented very well.
So until I see evidence of significant improvement, I shall continue to vote against discharge of the budget. (FR) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating all the rapporteurs on the huge amount of work they have done on this discharge, and I am also pleased that the Council is in attendance for this debate.
For example, I consider the discussion of workplace-related issues in discharge reports inappropriate. (DE) Mr President, honourable members of the Council and Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the agencies that I dealt with as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
A total of 104 new jobs were created at the European Chemicals Agency, which mainly supervises our REACH projects.
Overall, however, I consider the work of the agencies to be very positive. (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Ulmer for his noticeably factual contribution.
However, I should like to ask you whether you seriously expect the European Parliament to negotiate on something that is our right under the treaties.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, since I have only two minutes to react, I would like to address only a few things.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this debate confirms the broad common understanding between Parliament and the Commission on the way forward and on the need to improve our policies and programmes, bringing added value to EU citizens.
I think it is very important that the proposal submitted by the Commission on the introduction of management declarations is finally approved because this issue is really about increasing the accountability of our Member States, which are responsible for managing 80% of your budget.
We all agree that we have moved forward on simplification of our rules, and we have presented our views on this subject.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Commissioner once again on behalf of Parliament for his excellent cooperation.
That will form part of the performance audit under Article 318 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
