Belarus, in particular the cases of Ales Michalevic and Natalia Radin The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Belarus, in particular, the cases of Ales Mikhalevich and Natalia Radina.
author. - Mr President, a large number of opposition figures, including former presidential candidates but also journalists and human rights defenders, were arrested after the events of 19 December 2010 in Minsk and they have been kept in KGB detention centres ever since.
After a year of very modest progress, 19 December 2010 became a turning point for Belarus.
Mr President, the sincere and moving statement issued by Ales Mikhalevich nearly a fortnight ago, in which he revealed the methods of torture used by the Belarusian KGB against Alexander Lukashenko's political opponents, caused a shock.
The first message is to Ales Mikhalevich, but also to Anatoli Labiedzka and Mikhail Statkievich, who are in prison: we admire your courage; we are with you and we will not desert you.
The third message is for Mrs Ashton: it is time for economic sanctions, because only in this way can we change the way that the opposition is being persecuted in Belarus.
I feel that in this situation, it would still be useful for a European Parliament delegation to travel to Belarus, despite the fact that there are obstacles, and if a whole delegation is unable to travel, then Members of the European Parliament should travel there individually in order to better understand the situation and exert some influence.
There is also a need for dialogue at grassroots level and participation in civil society.
The EU should support democratic development in Belarus and continue to organise cultural and educational projects with it.
The European External Action Service should actively monitor developments in Belarus and support the Belarusians so that European values might also be internalised there. (Applause) (RO) Mr President, two days ago, on 8 March, International Women's Day, Natalia Radina was unable to enjoy this celebration because she was under house arrest.
I would like to highlight two points in our resolution which I regard as extremely important.
Human rights were dealt a heavy blow at the time of the presidential elections in December 2010.
The arrest and detention of more than 600 civil society activists, journalists, teachers and students, the majority of presidential candidates and leaders of the democratic opposition, along with the disproportionate use of force following the demonstrations organised in protest against Lukashenko's election, are characteristic features of a dictatorship and show deep contempt for respect for human rights.
Lukashenko used the KGB, or uses the KGB, as a political tool to silence the popular protest, including the cases of Ales Mikhalevich and Natalia Radina, that followed yet another disappointingly rigged presidential election in December last year.
We fear that many more such sentences, involving up to 40 people who now stand accused, will follow in months to come.
The situation today is as follows: as you know, the EU reacted to the fraudulent elections of 19 December and to the subsequent repression by putting nearly 160 people on a sanction list.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates.
