Explanations of vote I support the stance adopted by the rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on this dossier, along with the Commission's proposal on combating tax fraud in the European Union.
I believe that this proposal can improve administrative cooperation on intra-Community transactions, when it comes to calculating value added tax and monitoring the correct application of this tax.
Governed by Council Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003, European administrative cooperation on VAT needs to be improved, particularly in terms of combating tax evasion.
Under the consultation procedure of the European Parliament, I voted for the report by my excellent Spanish colleague Mr García-Margallo y Marfil on the proposal for a Council Regulation concerning administrative cooperation and combating fraud in the field of value added tax.
VAT fraud is often organised on a cross-border basis, which is why the European Union and its Member States need to be better coordinated to combat VAT fraud, in particular, and fiscal fraud, in general.
I am pleased that the Commission's proposal lays down the principle of a legal basis for establishing a joint structure, Eurofisc, which will make possible multilateral, swift and targeted exchange of information so that Member States can respond adequately and in a coordinated fashion to combat any new kinds of fraud that emerge, drawing on jointly organised risk analysis.
This type of data must be used only with the goal of preventing and combating tax offences.
I supported this report since I believe that it is necessary to strengthen the provisions in the area of the fight against fraud.
Fraud with the aim of evading taxes has serious consequences for national budgets, violates the principle of fair taxation and may distort competition and have an impact on the functioning of the internal market.
Current regulations do not effectively ensure cooperation between Member States, although fraud in the field of value added tax is often organised across several countries, and therefore Member States must cooperate to prevent it.
It is encouraging that the new version of the Regulation will strengthen the Community's database of VAT payers and their operations, which will provide Member States with access to information, improve administrative cooperation and allow us to combat VAT fraud more effectively.
I voted for a European strategy for combating tax fraud and evasion relating to VAT.
I believe that a mechanism must be created at European level for combating fraud because the extent of this phenomenon highlights that the measures aimed at tackling this problem can no longer be managed exclusively at national level.
The International VAT Association quotes estimates of VAT losses ranging from EUR 60 billion to EUR 100 billion per year across the European Union.
This is why I am urging close cooperation between administrative authorities in Member States and the European Commission in order to avoid the detrimental consequences which tax fraud can have for national budgets, as well as for competition.
Administrative cooperation between Member States in the fight against fraud and financial crime is extremely important for reasons of fairness and justice and because of the huge impact such crime has on a country's economic situation.
Countless cases of fraud occur in the field of value added tax, so it is essential to have a legal framework with strong measures so as to bring about a substantial reduction in the number of such cases.
The Member States need to implement the measures put forward by the European Union as quickly as possible, so as to create a more transparent system that can effectively combat fiscal fraud.
Although investigations into the magnitude of VAT evasion and fraud have not been carried out in all Member States, the International VAT Association estimates that VAT losses range from EUR 60 billion to EUR 100 billion per year across the European Union.
The Member States need to implement the measures put forward by the European Union as quickly as possible, so as to create a more transparent system that can effectively combat fiscal fraud.
I voted for the Council's draft regulation on administrative cooperation and combating tax evasion in the field of value added tax, because this legal act will make it possible for the Member States to fight jointly and more efficiently against cross-border tax evasion.
Although the measures to combat tax evasion are largely only within the competence of the Member States, I think that taking measures against tax evasion in today's global world needs to be a priority for the EU as well.
The Commission's proposal offers Member States the means to combat cross-border VAT fraud effectively by supplementing and amending the current regulation, and creating a legal basis for targeted cooperation in order to combat fraud: Eurofisc.
The fight against tax fraud across the EU must complement the action of the Member States.
The draft regulation aims not only to allow VAT to be calculated correctly, but also to monitor its correct application, particularly with regard to intra-Community transactions, and combat VAT fraud.
In general terms, several improvements are introduced relating to the exchange of information, namely, an improved definition of the cases in which Member States may carry out an administrative investigation, including measures to remedy the failure to carry out an investigation.
I am pleased that the financial impact of irregularities, as far as they have been identified, fell from EUR 1 024 million in 2007 to EUR 783.2 million in 2008, with reductions being recorded in all spending areas except direct expenditure and pre-accession funds.
I fully support the work done by the Commission, and I would point out that the fight against fraud and corruption is an important duty of the European institutions and all Member States.
I therefore think it essential to enact effective legislation to improve administrative cooperation in tackling harmful tax practices and ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market.
In this connection, I support the proposal for a Council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, while stressing the importance of making Member States more accountable, starting with the quality of the information entered into the databases.
The Commission's proposal to simplify, modernise and harmonise the rules on VAT invoices offers improvements, particularly concerning the provisions enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to use simplified invoices, as well as the guarantee of acceptance by the tax authorities of electronic invoices under the same conditions as conventional ones.
In this respect, the rapporteur's proposal to grant tax authorities the option to prescribe additional requirements, such as sequential numbers for simplified invoices, provides a simple security measure which preserves the improvements made by the Commission.
In this area concerning the common VAT system and the rules on invoicing, the Commission must support Member States which require technical assistance to modernise their e-administration, whether via the Community programme Fiscalis 2013 or through the use of the Structural Funds.
On this subject, a Council directive of 2001 had laid down common rules at European Union level as a means of simplifying, modernising and harmonising VAT invoicing rules.
The greater harmonisation of the rules proposed by the European Commission and supported by the rapporteur is therefore good news for all European businesses, as e-invoicing will be more accessible to them and, in turn, their administrative burden will be reduced.
Under the consultation procedure of the European Parliament, I voted for the report by my excellent Maltese colleague Mr Casa on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the rules on invoicing.
I support all the simplification measures proposed in the report, especially those intended for SMEs and in particular: to delete the requirement to hold an invoice that complies with formalities of all the Member States; to confirm that paper and electronic invoices are equally valid; and to delete the possibility for Member States in which the tax is due to require particular invoices to be translated into their official languages.
The first of these is the obligation on Member States to implement the accounting system based on receipts and payments (cash accounting) for SMEs (which are defined at EU level as firms with a turnover of less than EUR 2 million), which will be a welcome incentive for the business sector.
However, in every case, the fundamental principle remains that the deductibility of VAT is inextricably linked to its payment.
My parliamentary group has always been committed to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the real driving force of Europe's economy and which we as politicians have the duty to boost.
In particular, I endorse the possibility, proposed by the Commission, to allow the supplier to pay VAT only when he receives payment for a supply.
This, then, is a series of measures which, in my view, fall within a broader process to cut red tape which is helpful for European enterprises, especially at such a critical economic juncture.
I therefore hope that these measures will be adopted as soon as possible within a broader support framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, which need to operate in an easier economic and fiscal environment.
in writing. - This was my own report on the VAT rules on invoicing.
We were successful in asking that the cash accounting scheme be introduced on a mandatory basis in all Member States, thereby giving SMEs the option of whether or not to use such a scheme.
To this end the report was successful in achieving its aims and I have voted in favour.
Greater internal market integration and the cutting of unjustifiable costs to companies through a process of simplification and of bringing down administrative barriers are objectives that must be borne in mind in the preparation of Union legislation.
This directive, which aims at establishing a common system of invoicing with regard to value added tax, is therefore essential for achieving those aims.
In particular, I believe the traditional invoicing method should be replaced with electronic invoicing, which is quicker and less costly for companies and individuals, provided that the principle of transparency is respected.
I believe that this directive constitutes a positive step towards bringing clarity and legal certainty both for taxable persons and for the administrations, whilst providing additional means to fight against value added tax fraud.
This new system also brings companies a significant saving, which is of the utmost importance in this context of crisis.
The adoption of this report is also another step in the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
As a liberal, I voted for the directive changing the rules on invoicing, because I think that the method used today, whereby this chapter was incorporated into the VAT Directive, has not completely attained its objective, which was to simplify, modernise and harmonise the submission of VAT invoices.
I think that the new rules will reduce the burden of bureaucracy on the entrepreneur, and also ensure that the same rules for drawing up and issuing invoices will start to apply in all Member States.
On the basis of the recommendation made to us in the report by my Polish fellow Member, Mr Czarnecki, I voted in favour of granting the Court of Justice's Registrar discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2008.
Nevertheless, I cannot understand the reluctance of the ECJ to publish its members' declarations of financial interests, and I support the request made by Parliament to implement this practice without delay.
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how the public funds made available to them have been used.
It points out a number of important issues that should be urgently reviewed, such as the need to enhance procurement procedures, in order to help authorising services organise tendering procedures and control adherence to regulatory obligations.
I welcome the fact that the ECJ has adopted the practice of including in its activity report a chapter outlining the follow-up during the year to Parliament's previous discharge decisions and to reports of the Court of Auditors.
That is why I voted for the report on the Court of Justice.
On the basis of the recommendation made in the report by my Polish fellow Member, Mr Czarnecki, I voted in favour of granting the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2008.
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how the public funds made available to them have been used.
I am glad to see that an external firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, has audited the accounts of the Court of Auditors and concluded that 'nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects and based on (identified) criteria, (a) the resources assigned to the Court have not been used for their intended purposes, and (b) the control procedures in place do not provide the necessary guarantees to ensure the compliance of financial operations with the applicable rules and regulations'.
The internal auditor's report was also positive, with the majority of its recommendations having been accepted and applied in advance under several action plans.
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how the public funds made available to them have been used.
The Court of Auditors indicated in its annual report that the audit did not give rise to any significant observations as regards the Ombudsman.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Ombudsman.
On the basis of the recommendation made to the European Parliament in the report by my Polish fellow Member, Mr Czarnecki, I voted in favour of granting the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008.
I welcome the annual publication of declarations of financial interests of the elected members of that institution (European Data Protection Supervisor and Assistant Supervisor).
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how public funds have been used.
I join the rapporteur in the positive assessment he made of the efforts to consolidate the management of financial and human resources, as well as the improvement in functionality and efficiency of internal control functions achieved in 2008.
I also welcome the annual publication of declarations of financial interests of the elected members of the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS), containing relevant information on remunerated posts or activities and declarable professional activities.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Data Protection Supervisor.
On the basis of the recommendation made to the European Parliament in the report by my excellent colleague and friend, Mrs Mathieu, I voted in favour of granting the Director of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2008.
I cannot understand why this body is accumulating seemingly unnecessary surpluses, for example a surplus of nearly EUR 27 million in 2008 and accumulated funds on 31 December 2008 of nearly EUR 50 million.
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how the public funds made available to them have been used.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I, like the rapporteur, find it regrettable that the conflict between the Centre and the Commission as to the employer's share of pension contributions for staff has still not been settled.
That is why I voted for the report on the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union.
Therefore, they must objectively and rigorously account for how the public funds made available to them have been used.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
There has, however, been a standstill in the area of staff management, given that the objectives for staff and the performance indicators were neither measurable nor focused on results.
Nevertheless, like the rapporteur, I welcome the Centre's intention to introduce a pilot system in 2010 for recording the time spent working by each staff member.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the Community Fisheries Control Agency for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
On the basis of the recommendation made to the European Parliament in the report by my excellent colleague and friend, Mrs Mathieu, I voted in favour of granting the Director of the European Agency for Reconstruction discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for 2008.
I believe that it would be useful for the Commission, following the memorandum of understanding of December 2008 between the Commission and the Agency providing for certain closing transactions and in particular for the Agency's residual assets to become the property of the Commission after 31 December 2008, to produce a detailed closure report on the closing transactions for both the social and the financial aspects.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors stated in its report that the annual accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I deplore the fact, however, that the Centre has not comprehensively fulfilled its obligation to send to the authority responsible for discharge a report drawn up by its Director summarising the number of internal audits conducted by the internal auditor.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the European Chemicals Agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Agency is performing a role that the Commission is not in a position to take on; it is fully aligned with the Union's strategic priorities and its activities are complementary to those of other agencies.
It should be noted that the Court of Auditors highlights delays in the operational activities caused by difficulties in implementing the IT system and by a lack of qualified staff.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Chemicals Agency.
The Court of Auditors believes in its report that the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I congratulate the Agency on the external evaluation of the EU decentralised agencies commissioned by the Commission in 2009, the main findings of which were very positive.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors in its report describes the annual accounts of the European Food Safety Authority for the financial year 2008 as reliable and the underlying transactions as legal and regular.
The Authority reached a high level of budget execution for both commitment and payment credits (97% and 95% respectively).
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
It should also include human resources management procedures to make such management more effective, for example by introducing objectives of working hours for its agents into its programming and setting the average time they should devote to each project.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the European Medicines Agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors has expressed its opinion that there is evidence that the annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The report also points out that the procedures for establishing the budget were not rigorous enough, leading to a high number of budgetary transfers and a high level of cancellation of payment appropriations, indicating weaknesses in planning and monitoring.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Network and Information Security Agency for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
Given the importance of electronic communication networks, the Agency should be congratulated on the improvement in the resilience of European electronic communication networks, and on the development and maintenance of cooperation with Member States.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Railway Agency for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
However, the Court of Auditors points out that the Agency has weaknesses in the setting of objectives and performance measures, as well as problems in procurement procedures.
Given the greater scrutiny of the activities of public bodies, the Agency needs to adopt appropriate measures to overcome these problems.
Finally, I congratulate the Agency on having implemented 32 of the 36 recommendations made by the Internal Audit Service since 2006.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Training Foundation for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
It should be noted, however, that the Foundation says that it has undertaken a thorough review of its recruitment procedures in response to the Court of Auditors' findings, although we have not yet been informed about it.
Lastly, it is important to highlight that the Foundation's work in supporting the Commission in 2008 obtained a 97% satisfaction rate from the Commission.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Agency has significantly improved its financial management over the last three years, which is very welcome, and it should continue to strive for the highest standards in budgetary planning, implementation and control.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the Euratom Supply Agency are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
After weaknesses were detected in recruitment and procurement procedures in the previous year, the Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
Given the importance of this agency, I hope it will continue its efforts at budgetary discipline, improve its human resources management procedures and enter staff numbers, including contract staff, in the activity report in a transparent manner.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
I also note the Court of Auditors' finding that in 2008 Eurojust had a problem as regards carrying forward appropriations, although the amount was lower than in the previous year, and action is needed to prevent this situation from recurring in future.
Lastly, I share the rapporteur's concern that none of the 26 recommendations made by the Internal Audit Service have been fully implemented by Eurojust.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
The Court of Auditors states in its report that the annual accounts of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX) for the financial year 2008 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Court of Auditors, however, has consistently found several weaknesses, in particular: (i) a high level of carry-overs and cancellations (with 49%, nearly 69% and 55% of the appropriations available in 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively not spent); (ii) legal commitments entered into before the corresponding budgetary commitments; and (iii) recruitment procedures that depart from the rules, in particular as regards the transparency and non-discriminatory nature of the procedures in question.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
I am concerned to see that, in the rapporteur's words, the European Global Navigation Satellite Systems Supervisory Authority has decided to present the results of its activities without taking into account the fact that the Authority's management of the Galileo and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service programmes would be discontinued after the finalisation of the transfer of assets and funds to the Commission scheduled for the end of the first quarter of 2008.
I also regret that the Court of Auditors qualified its statement of assurance on the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2008 and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European GNSS Supervisory Authority.
The Court of Auditors in its report describes the annual accounts of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy for the financial year 2008 as reliable and the underlying transactions as legal and regular.
That may have stemmed from the fact that the Joint Undertaking was in a start-up phase and had not fully set up its internal control and financial information systems during the 2008 financial year.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The transport of pressure equipment, such as tanks, receptacles and cylinders, is presently governed by Directive 1999/36/EC, which lays down safety requirements for transport by road and by rail.
These rules, however, are in breach of international rules on the transport of dangerous goods, which is why the Commission has put forward a proposal for a revised directive.
The proposal does not entail any substantial changes to the existing regulatory framework as regards the scope and the main provisions.
I therefore share the rapporteur's opinion that, in the absence of a horizontal solution between the institutions regarding the wording of the new comitology provisions, the dossier must be concluded as quickly as possible with an agreement at first reading.
However, some technical provisions of the existing directive conflict with international rules on the transport of dangerous goods.
For the above reasons, I voted for this resolution, in which the committee is invited to adopt the report without additional amendments and mandate the rapporteur to enter into negotiations with the Council on this basis.
The growing concern with issues relating to the environment and its protection leads us to take extra care with the safety rules relating to the transport of pressure equipment.
The purpose of this directive is to reinforce safety and ensure the free movement of such equipment within the Union, by setting out clear, transparent and mandatory rules for safely transporting pressure equipment in all the Member States, standardising the procedures throughout the EU.
Furthermore, the proposal aims to simplify and streamline certain provisions, in particular those relating to conformity assessment procedures.
Its proper implementation at Member State level will also provide increased protection for the environment and citizens' health.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Simpson report on transportable pressure equipment, even though our amendment was not adopted.
Airport security and the transparency of consumer charges, in order to raise their standards and levels: these are the themes dealt with by the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on aviation security charges.
Current systems for covering costs relating to aviation security, regulated at a national level, are not always clear for end users, who are often not even consulted before charges are calculated or changes are made to a charging system that affects them.
It is very important that the Directive sets out basic principles and procedures applicable to the body responsible for security and the airlines.
The issue of financing security charges should be entrusted to the individual Member States.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on aviation security charges.
The European Commission has submitted a proposal establishing basic principles to be respected by airport operators when determining their security charges: (i) non-discrimination; (ii) consultation and remedy; (iii) transparency and cost-relatedness of security charges; and (iv) establishment of a supervisory authority.
Parliament has more than once called for regulation of the financing of security charges, but without success.
Lastly, I would point out that one can never invest too much in airport and passenger security, as was clearly shown by the latest attempted terrorist attacks against civil aviation, which were luckily foiled.
The European Parliament has demanded - several times and in vain - the regulation of security-charge financing to achieve greater transparency, as well as for security taxes and charges to be related to their real purposes.
Parliament believes that the Member States should foot the bill for implementing stricter measures.
The terrorist incident a few weeks ago has again shown that airport security is the responsibility of the Member States and that the purpose of existing and newly envisaged security measures is to prevent acts of terrorism.
I agree with the amendments introduced by this resolution, which will make it possible to prevent unnecessary parallel proceedings and administrative costs in this area.
in writing. - We must ensure that airport security charges are transparent, objective and based on clear criteria that reflect real costs.
Any new costs to air travel should acknowledge the importance airports have for the development of regions, especially those which depend heavily on tourism, as well as those that suffer geographical and natural handicaps, such as the outermost regions and islands.
Airport users, as well as local authorities, should be able to obtain in a timely manner information on how and on what basis the charges are calculated.
There should be also a compulsory procedure for consultations between the airport authorities and interested parties or local authorities, whenever there is a need for a revision of the charges.
Also, any independent supervisory authority should have precise, clearly defined terms of reference, including in particular any powers they may have to take punitive action.
I consider it unacceptable that the Member States are not guaranteeing funding for airport security measures that are not provided for in European legislation, and that moreover they are passing the costs on to the airlines, which then make passengers pay.
I think it was necessary to go further than the regulation of 2008 and to adopt legislation to ensure that passengers do not bear these additional costs, which may at times prove to be completely unrelated to security charges.
That is why I supported the report by my Austrian colleague, Mr Leichtfried, which guarantees greater transparency for citizens as well as airlines, and forces Member States to provide public funding for security measures that go beyond European requirements, since that falls under the national security of each Member State.
In the event that the Commission presents a proposal to include body scanners on the list of European methods in order to stop the Member States from funding them, I will again support my colleague and will vote against this proposal, if necessary.
The ever greater care taken over security in our airports has brought progressively more costs, for which passengers have been footing the bill.
The additional costs of stricter security measures must be borne by the Member States, as they exist to prevent terrorist acts; however, they are being borne by passengers.
Only if countries themselves have to take financial responsibility for the strict security measures which have been prescribed, and are also able to make their own decisions with regard to these measures, can we prevent the possibility of an unrestrained increase in body scanners and other similar measures.
in writing. - I voted YES to the report.
Parliament had repeatedly called for the Commission to regulate the financing of security charges in the aviation sector.
The Commission proposal does not address this issue.
The present document, however, proposes that, where stricter measures result in additional costs, they should be financed by the Member State.
I believe that the objectives of greater transparency and avoidance of unnecessary costs can only be achieved through the harmonisation of legislations and the clarification of responsibility between airlines and Member States in the adoption of security measures.
The outcome of today's vote - 613 votes to 7 - is a very clear signal to the Council.
I voted for the report on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network because its aim is to construct and modernise railway infrastructures, ports, waterways and airports.
I welcome the setting up of a committee to support the Commission in implementing this decision and drafting the guidelines stipulated by it.
Such mobility is essential since we cannot have a proper Europe without getting to know our neighbours, their countries and their culture.
The trans-European transport network also contributes to the plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by introducing better management of modes of transport and promoting their interoperability.
Therefore, in line with the rapporteur's proposal and having noted the legal and political safeguards, I support adoption of the text, including the minor modifications and corrections proposed by the Council, as well as the conclusion of the file through an agreement at first reading.
I voted for the adoption of these amendments.
I condemn the fact that the outermost regions do not always play an integral part in the global trans-European transport network, despite the fundamental importance for economic, social and territorial cohesion.
It is inconceivable that the ORs are not involved in the planning of the network and do not appear on several trans-European transport network maps.
The TEN-T policy should also incorporate network industries and services of general economic interest; it should not be limited merely to major streams of cargo traffic and passengers.
During the plenary session I voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network.
I think that this offers an absolutely crucial opportunity to reaffirm the important role played by transport policy at European level in the current context with the debate on the Europe 2020 objectives going on.
Member States in general and Romania in particular, a country which is still in need of investment in its transport infrastructure, must be aware that this transport policy is being redrafted to meet the new challenges.
An ageing population and the specific mobility requirements of the elderly, social migration and climate change are only some of the factors which impose the need to devise a suitable transport policy.
Amendments to and redefinitions of the development of the trans-European transport network have been going on for years.
An effective trans-European transport network is essential to the existence of a healthy internal market, and contributes to the reinforcement of economic and social cohesion.
The phenomenon of the Icelandic volcano showed us unequivocally that a trans-European transport network is needed; one that is effective and can give a coordinated response to the problems that emerge in these situations.
This decision is important because it gives guidelines on the objectives, the priorities and the major actions to be taken in the area of the trans-European transport network.
Support from the EU for the Koralm project is essential on account of the existing bottlenecks in this region on the rail routes for freight transport; which, after all, the EU is always championing.
With the Koralm Tunnel, the EU has a unique opportunity to shift traffic to the railways on a scale that we have been striving for for decades.
As the development of the trans-European network may be crucial for Europe's competitiveness and the amendments tabled are merely technical adjustments, I have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report even though our amendment was not adopted.
In relation to national priorities in the context of the trans-European transport network (TEN-T), I consider it important to invest not only in railways but, above all, in motorways of the sea and the interoperability and cooperability of the various kinds of transport.
Maritime transport is essential to my country, which enjoys privileged access to navigable waterways, and truly crucial to outermost and island regions, as in the case of Madeira.
This report is broadly supported not only in Parliament but also in the Commission and Council.
In short, this proposal, which I personally supported, does not amend the content of the TEN-T text but just adds maps of the 12 Member States that joined the Union in 2004 and 2007.
A revision of the Union guidelines for the development of the TEN-T is in preparation and will be ready only towards the end of 2010.
The EU has 5 million kilometres of roads (62 thousand kilometres of motorways), 215 thousand kilometres of railways and 41 thousand kilometres of internal waterways.
On the basis of a respective EU treaty, investment in the TEN-T will reach around EUR 500 billion.
The TEN-T is intended to link land, sea and air transport networks throughout Europe by 2020.
The main objective is to ensure fast and easy movement of people and goods among Member States.
If we want the port to remain competitive we need to modernise its current infrastructure and remove red tape.
The most important thing is passenger safety and protection.
The financial crisis has had an impact on transport policy.
However, the TEN-T may be used to create jobs and observe social and economic cohesion.
The Europe 2020 strategy recognises the importance of transport policy for Europe's economy.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that, in order to address the current crisis, we need to find ways to speed up the implementation of aid programmes, so that Union funding aimed in particular at supporting citizens, and more specifically the unemployed, can be used more fully.
Economic forecasts predict a major reduction in EU growth of 1.1% in 2010.
In this context, this report represents a reaction to the financial crisis and its socioeconomic repercussions.
Hence I consider it extremely important for achieving greater transparency and simplification of the rules governing cohesion policy.
This contribution will have a positive impact on the pace of programme implementation, particularly by providing national, regional and local authorities with clearer and less bureaucratic rules that will allow more flexibility in adapting the programmes to the new challenges.
Last year the Commission presented a proposal amending the Regulation on Structural Funds (1083/2006) in order to provide financial incentives to Member States hit hard by the economic crisis.
One of the measures put forward in the Commission's proposal was a derogation from the principle of cofinancing by introducing a temporary option for Member States suffering from cash-flow problems to request a 100% reimbursement for financing measures eligible under the European Social Fund.
The Council rejected this proposal, but agreed to the extension of the deadline for calculating the automatic decommitment of the annual budget commitments relating to the 2007 total annual contribution to improve the absorption of funds committed to certain operational programmes.
I believe that the rapporteur's proposed temporary measure of reconstituting the appropriations for the 2007 financial year for the assistance funds as part of the European Social Fund, as a result of decommitments made, is justified, in view of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which would prevent the application of Article 93(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 in its current form.
Furthermore, I am in favour of providing an additional pre-financing instalment for 2010 for the Member States worst hit by the crisis.
As referent on this report for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I called on my colleagues to vote in favour of this text.
This is a real leap forward: there is less information to provide, greater flexibility with regard to revenue-generating projects, fewer checks by the Commission for environmental projects worth EUR 25 to 50 million, and so on.
Indeed, it would not have been a good idea to call into question the principle of cofinancing expenditure and to implement projects wholly funded by the European Social Fund (ESF), as the Commission proposed.
In order to balance expenditure in the long term, some Member States would have been faced with severe financial difficulties.
Let us not forget, however, that there is still a great deal to do in terms of simplification.
It is important to stress that the pressure on national financial resources continues to rise and necessitates taking further steps to alleviate this pressure through a better use of EU funding, and mobilisation and acceleration of all available Funds to tackle the crisis, in particular using the European Social Fund (ESF) for rapid recovery packages, as outlined in the Communication mentioned.
It is particularly important that there should be more effort to facilitate the management of EU funding in order to speed up the flow of funding to beneficiaries that are most affected by the economic downturn.
Further simplification and clarification of rules governing cohesion policy will undeniably have a positive impact on the pace of programme implementation, particularly by providing national, regional and local authorities with clearer and less bureaucratic rules that will allow more flexibility in order to adapt the programmes to the new challenges.
in writing. - The report concerns the financial management of some of the most important funds within the European Union.
These are inclusive of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
After a careful analysis of the proposal for regulation as well as Article 161 of the EC Treaty in addition to other documents, I was inclined to support the position of the rapporteur and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
The amendment of the regulation on implementing the Structural and Cohesion Funds is a measure aimed at supporting EU Member States during the current crisis.
I believe that the new provisions will help, at the same time, to reduce the risk of funds being lost due to not being used quickly enough, as a longer time frame is being offered for projects which have not been approved or implemented yet during the specified period.
I also hope that these simplified rules will come into force as soon as possible so that Member States and, in particular, the regions intended to be able to benefit from this option of EU funding, as well as the public authorities in these regions, will continue to invest in European projects in spite of budgetary constraints.
The Democratic Movement delegation welcomes the adoption of a report allowing the simplification of some provisions of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
Relaxing the deadlines for the use of the funds is a major step forward.
The new rules will mean that regions and Member States do not lose funds committed in 2007 for projects whose implementation has been delayed.
Henceforth, environmental projects totalling less than EUR 50 million will no longer need to be the subject of a specific application by Member States for approval by the European Commission.
Additional financial advances for 2010 will be authorised for those Member States worst affected by the economic and financial crisis.
The simplification of some provisions will also make it easier to review the Operational Programmes under way and will allow us to respond better to crisis situations.
The Commission has submitted a proposed amendment to the regulation on the Structural Funds, the aim of which is to provide Member States seriously affected by the financial crisis with the necessary economic stimulus.
A threshold of EUR 50 million should apply, instead of the current EUR 25 million.
It is totally unacceptable for some Member States to be identified as 'more affected by the crisis' and for them to be exempted from the rules for these reasons.
The EU is not such an enormous entity that we can deduce different consequences of the financial crisis for Member States.
Economies are interconnected and the consequences of economic management cut both ways.
Even in times of crisis let us fight for equal conditions in equivalent situations!
I welcome the adoption of the Kirilov report, which I supported with my vote.
I believe that the adoption of this report so soon after the Commission's Communication will be beneficial as the measures set out in it will speed up the funding process, helping boost the economic recovery in the regions, which is an absolute necessity during the current crisis.
In Romania's case, this means increasing the volume of advance payments for the European Social Fund and Cohesion Fund, and more time for using European funds by 'decommitting' them so that Member States can reuse the funds as part of the programme.
There is also the agreement on a single EUR 50 million threshold, which defines a major project that will be able to qualify for funding from several European programmes.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund as regards simplification of certain requirements and as regards provisions relating to financial management.
The severe and unprecedented impact of the current economic and financial crisis on the Member States' budgets means that the management of cohesion policy must be simplified and advance payments increased.
As such, and particularly in times of crisis - when these funds can help specifically to mitigate the impact felt in the most deprived regions - it is essential to improve the current structure of cohesion policy, so that the funds can be allocated more efficiently and can produce more effective results in good time.
Moreover, the instruments need to be made more flexible, because rigid instruments that cannot adapt to unforeseen circumstances, such as a crisis, are damaging to the European Union's economic development.
It is also important to ensure that the funds made available under cohesion policy are being duly utilised by the Member States and that the available resources are spent efficiently.
I therefore consider it vital to rethink not only the structure of Union cohesion policy but also the control mechanisms available, as well as the methods of coercion that can be used in the event of non-compliance by Member States.
The main element of the Commission proposal aimed to address the consequences of the financial crisis.
The solution proposed was to introduce a temporary option for Member States suffering from severe cash-flow difficulties to request a 100% reimbursement for financing labour market measures under the European Social Fund, that is to say, derogation from the principle of cofinancing.
That is why I voted for this proposal, and it is to be hoped that the Commission will make a corresponding proposal for an amending budget for examination and adoption by the budgetary authority.
The Commission proposal involves the introduction of a temporary option, to which Member States with severe cash-flow difficulties could turn in order to finance necessary growth and employment promotion measures designed to combat the crisis and eligible under the European Social Fund.
That would allow Member States to ask the Commission for 100% reimbursements for 2009 and 2010, so that national cofinancing would not be needed during this period.
This is a measure that we have been advocating, so as to make the full utilisation of EU funds possible at a time when they are most needed.
The document on which Parliament is voting takes the side of the Council position, which we believe is more ambiguous and less favourable to the Member States worst hit by the crisis.
We believe, however, that 'to extend the deadline for the calculation of the automatic decommitment of the annual budget commitment relating to the 2007 total annual contribution to improve the absorption of funds committed for certain operational programmes' is a positive point.
The major challenges which the European Union has been confronted with due to the economic and financial crisis have resulted in the launch of certain priority actions which will help national economies adapt to the situation that has been created.
I voted for the report as I am strongly in favour of granting additional financial incentives to Member States which have been hit hard by the economic crisis, as well as of simplifying the aspects relating to financial management.
All countries could benefit from postponing decommitments, while countries in the direst situation would benefit from additional advance payments.
These countries are Estonia, Hungary, Romania, Latvia and Lithuania.
This step is especially important as cohesion policy is the most powerful instrument in terms of granting aid to the real economy.
Simplifying access to the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, and the Cohesion Fund is an essential part of supporting the Member States most affected by the economic crisis that we are experiencing.
As we find out the extent of the damage caused to the real economy and the labour market by the financial crisis, we must take measures to improve access to the Union's financing instruments.
There must be a regular flow of funds that allows payments to be made to beneficiaries as programmes are implemented.
Although the possible 100% reimbursement for 2009 and 2010 for financing labour market policy measures did not promote further education and high-quality apprenticeships to the extent that we would have liked, it is certainly essential in the current situation.
All Member States would benefit from the decommitment of the budget commitment and those countries with the most problems would receive additional advance payments.
In view of the economic and financial crisis, optimum use must be made of measures which will simplify certain procedures specific to accessing European funds.
These include: granting an additional funding advance for 2010 to Member States affected by the crisis, thereby ensuring a steady cash flow and facilitating payments to beneficiaries during the programmes' implementation phase; extending the deadline for calculating the automatic decommitment of the annual budget commitment relating to the 2007 total annual contribution, which will improve the absorption of funds committed to certain operational programmes and ensure adequate support for the initiatives in favour of maintaining and creating jobs; Member States which received support in 2009, in accordance with the legislation which establishes a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments, can benefit in 2010, under certain conditions, from 2% of the contribution from the Cohesion Fund and 4% from the contribution of the ESF to the operational programme.
These measures will contribute to the development of a flexible, inclusive labour market and to a significant improvement in the positive impact generated by EU funding on the economy as a whole, but particularly on small and medium-sized businesses and on the labour market.
in writing. - I voted against this report because we, the Verts/ALE Group, tabled six amendments and all were rejected.
I voted in favour of this proposal since I believe it is a matter of great importance for Portugal, and particularly for its outermost regions, which are more vulnerable to the crisis we are experiencing, since they feel its effects more intensely and take longer to emerge from it.
The compromise solution, albeit not perfect, means that EU funds for 2007 that have not been absorbed by programmes that have been slow to start up will, exceptionally, benefit from an extended deadline before being decommitted.
The global financial crisis has affected all of the EU Member States.
This task is impossible without the EU Structural and Cohesion Funds, in particular, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
The Structural Funds constitute a large portion of EU funding: - EUR 277 billion were allocated for the 2007-2013 budget.
The ERDF stimulates economic development and recovery in less prosperous parts of the EU.
The Cohesion Fund plays an important role in reducing differences between EU Member States, particularly in terms of environment and trans-European transport networks.
Today (2007-2013), the European Social Fund also has a vital role to play by helping business and workers adapt to the new market conditions and supporting workplace innovations, lifelong learning and increased mobility.
I voted for this resolution submitted by the Conference of Committee Chairs, which requests the Commission to submit new proposals for those dossiers which were pending in Parliament at the time of the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force and the procedure for which has lapsed.
As rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for the 'Proposal for a Council Recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Alzheimer's, through joint programming of research activities', I support the invitation presented by the Conference of Committee Chairs to the European Commission to submit a new proposal on these dossiers so that Parliament is consulted in a manner appropriate to its institutional role also assigned by the provisions of the new Treaty.
The European Parliament can at last fully guarantee that the interests of EU citizens are defended, and that is why I voted for this resolution.
The Treaty of Lisbon clearly grants Parliament new responsibilities and new powers.
With its entry into force on 1 December 2009, many proposals that had been tabled by the Commission on the basis of the Treaties, but which were still pending on that date (at different stages in the legislative or non-legislative process) will be subject to changes.
In some cases there will be differences at the level of the decision-making procedure, either because the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure has been significantly extended, or because a new approval procedure applies in respect of the conclusion of international agreements.
As the rapporteur of the initiative to set up an assessment mechanism to monitor the implementation of the Schengen acquis, I call on the Commission to submit the new proposals as quickly as possible.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the consequences of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon for ongoing interinstitutional decision-making procedures.
The Commission and the Council must urgently make the necessary changes in light of the new legislative framework.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has not only imposed a new institutional arrangement and a new hierarchy of legislation, but also requires special precautions with regard to decision-making procedures that were still ongoing on that date.
In these cases the legal bases have changed, as have the procedures relating to them, fully justifying their re-examination.
The Treaty of Lisbon grants Parliament new responsibilities and new powers.
In some cases there will be differences at the level of the decision-making procedure, either because the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure has been significantly extended, or because a new approval procedure applies in respect of the conclusion of international agreements.
in writing. - I vote against the Motion for Resolution on the consequences of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon for ongoing interinstitutional decision-making procedures as it includes the regulation about the so called "direct trade” between the EU and the occupied part of the Republic of Cyprus.
The legal basis of the regulation is absolutely wrong, as the European Commission chose Article 133 of the Treaty - now Article 207(2) after the Lisbon Treaty - which addresses issues with Third Countries.
Using such a legal basis would be against Protocol 10 on Cyprus that clearly provides that the Republic of Cyprus entered the EU as complete territory with the suspension of the Union acquis in the northern part of the island due to the Turkish occupation.
The existing legal basis of the regulation insults the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of a member state of the EU, the Republic of Cyprus, and it is against the principles and the values upon which the EU is founded and the European Parliament should respect and promote as the beacon of the European democracy.
Given the wide-ranging and diverse implications that 'delegated acts' will have for legislative procedure, I believe that Parliament's wish to apply specific and clear conditions to these delegated acts, in order to ensure that this House has real democratic control over them, is particularly commendable.
The Treaty of Lisbon addresses the democratic deficit by strengthening the powers of both the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
That is the framework for this new instrument, which allows the legislator to delegate part of its powers to the Commission (Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union), provided that it is an act of general application that is used to supplement or amend parts of a legislative act that are not considered essential.
It will thus make it quicker and simpler to fill gaps or to regulate or update more detailed aspects in a legislative act, avoiding excessively complicated and prolonged legislative procedures, which used to have negative consequences for the public.
Two aspects that have been safeguarded are the fact that the delegation may be withdrawn at any time and the fact that Parliament's (and the Council's) prior assent is needed before the entry into force of acts approved by the Commission under a delegation.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon requires clarification of some of its norms, particularly those with legal and procedural content, such as those addressing the legislative procedure, the hierarchy of norms and the powers of the institutions.
Article 290(1) of the Treaty states that a legislative act may delegate to the Commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act.
Nevertheless, this detailing of the law set out in the Treaty is important to prevent excessively disparate interpretations that would jeopardise the consistency of EU law.
Although such acts are common in the Member States, that cannot be said of the acts in question.
The legitimacy of the Commission and of the Member States' governments is not the same, and therefore the delegation of legislation to the former requires greater care and attention, and it must be used sparingly.
According to Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the legislator can delegate a certain amount of power to the Commission, in which connection the Commission may only supplement or amend a legislative act.
The rapporteur is advocating the stricter monitoring of the Commission in its exercising of its delegated legislative powers.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the adoption of the report.
I voted in favour of the report on the power of legislative delegation.
Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon allows Parliament to raise objections to or revoke the Commission's amendments and supplements to legislative acts.
However, this requires an absolute majority, in other words a majority of the number of elected MEPs.
The Commission's expert groups, which are hand-picked from the Member States, have a great deal of influence in legislative delegation.
One example of this is provided by the fact that, via an expert group, the Commission permitted a new type of genetically modified maize, despite the fact that Parliament and the Council were opposed to this.
The Commission went against this, however, and drew up guidelines establishing that it was not necessary to have a permanent representative.
The Commission wants to safeguard its independence and continue to use its expert groups.
The Treaty of Lisbon has changed the former system of comitology by reference to new legal instruments, such as delegated acts and implementing acts.
Enshrining in the Treaty the ability to delegate to the Commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts to supplement legislative acts is a step forwards in that it places the two institutions on an equal footing.
This report seeks to clarify the terms on which the delegation of powers by Parliament and the Council to the Commission, pursuant to Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, can take place.
The document stresses the importance of the principle of the freedom of the legislator to delegate its powers to the Commission as a tool for better law-making.
The report upholds the need to avoid imposing on the legislator additional obligations over and above those already contained in the Treaty.
The legislator must allow the Commission to exercise the delegated power effectively and must duly monitor the use made of it.
For the reasons mentioned above, and considering that the main priority must be to adapt the acquis in areas that were not subject to the codecision procedure prior to the Treaty of Lisbon, I voted in favour of the document.
The competitiveness of European maritime transport should remain one of the strategic objectives of European Union maritime transport policy.
A reduction of the administrative burden and red tape would lead to an increase in private and public sector investments in the sea port and shipping sectors.
Development of the trans-European transport network, provision for motorways of the sea and development of the intermodality of means of transport would lead to the creation of a European maritime transport system that is competitive and receptive to innovations.
The European Union's marine territory is the most extensive in the world.
The maritime economy provides work for five million people, whilst 5% of the EU's GDP comes from industries and services with a direct connection to this sector.
Data and facts show categorically that the sea constitutes a crucial resource for employment and growth in Member States, especially taking into consideration its international dimension, and hence the amount of pressure it has to endure in terms of global competition.
The Democratic Movement delegation welcomes the adoption of strategic goals for the EU's maritime transport until 2018.
The resolution adopted calls in particular for the enhancement of maritime professionals through the strengthening of professional qualifications and the harmonisation of European training.
With this in mind, the Member States must urgently ratify the International Labour Organisation's 2006 Maritime Labour Convention.
For maritime transport to remain one of the least polluting means of transport, progress still needs to be made in reducing emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, particulates (PM10) and CO2.
We must continue to make progress in this direction and, to do so, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) will have to set reduction targets, applicable to all the Member States, which will allow us to avoid distortions of competition with third-country fleets.
The Commission has put forward a communication on strategic goals and recommendations for the EU's maritime transport policy until 2018.
The Commission's proposal covers a wide range of topics relating to EU maritime transport policy, allowing maritime transport stakeholders ample scope and initiative to realise the strategic objectives and recommendations that are set out in it.
The maritime transport sector faces major challenges with regard to the environment.
The call to reduce the carbon footprint of vessels and port infrastructures, improving facilities for seafarers, the call to reduce emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, particulates (PM10) and CO2 or even the creation of maritime emission control areas are many measures that may have a positive outcome depending on how they are applied.
The permanent pre-eminence of free and undistorted competition, however, and the subordination of seafarers' rights to competitiveness mean that this report goes against seafarers' interests and the general interest.
With the adoption of this report, the objectives necessary for the existence of a Union maritime transport policy are being defined.
This mode of transport has been moving towards centre stage, because it is one that is environmentally friendly and has the potential to become even more so.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Van Dalen report on maritime transport strategy up to 2018, although our amendment on including maritime transport in the ETS was rejected by large majority (roll-call vote).
The future of the European maritime transport sector plays a very large role in the European Union from an economic and social, as well as environmental, point of view.
The vote which took place today puts in place a strategy for European maritime transport policy until 2018, and maybe this will have a direct effect on the 41% of fleets which belong to Europe, and indirectly to the maritime transport sector of the whole world.
Therefore, it is important that the report being adopted today calls on all Member States to ratify the convention of the International Maritime Organisation, in order to ensure better conditions for seafarers and ship owners, as well as for the environment.
Finally, I thank the rapporteur for his high level of cooperation and openness during the drafting of the report.
Maritime transport is, without a shadow of a doubt, a competitive advantage for Europe, but much remains to be done to promote intermodality and co-modality, which also involves the repositioning of maritime transport as a truly competitive alternative.
Europe's infrastructure and port capacity deserve to continue being developed, as do the motorways of the sea, which are very important to southern and peripheral countries like Portugal and to outermost regions such as Madeira.
The report we have adopted today covers these guidelines in general terms, and has therefore won my support.
More than 80% of world trade takes place at sea, and maritime transport remains the backbone of international trade.
The EU is the most significant global exporter and the second biggest importer.
Every year more than 400 million passengers use European ports, and therefore maritime transport directly affects the quality of European citizens' lives.
The European Parliament is one of the defenders of maritime policy in the EU.
The global financial crisis has also affected the maritime transport sector.
Therefore, now we really must release the economic potential of European seafaring to stimulate economic growth and social and environmental stability.
The long-term competitiveness of European shipping is the cornerstone of EU maritime policy.
This strategy fosters safe, clean and effective shipping and the creation of jobs in the European maritime policy industry.
A strategic vision, taking into account the development of shipping, ports and similar sectors, is important for the simplification of EU maritime policy so that it can face future challenges, for example, combating piracy and reducing the environmental impact of shipping.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which integrates some of my proposals for the future of maritime transport policy and its related sectors, whether in terms of shipbuilding, tourism or fisheries.
To me it was important to reaffirm the necessity of security as a prerequisite for maritime transport and to stress, in spite of the difficult economic context, the need to respect high standards of protection of the marine and coastal environment.
These structural measures require significant investment combined with transparent and fair financing rules in order to support innovation and increase the competitiveness of European ports.
Finally, I welcome the fact that the social dimension features in our strategy and that it stresses, in particular, employment, training, the enhancement of maritime professionals and the improvement of seafarers' working conditions on shore and on board. 'Europeana', the European digital library, is a single, direct, multilingual portal designed for Europe's cultural heritage.
In the motion for a resolution voted on today, I asked the European Commission to launch a special campaign in the media and online, aimed at students and teachers and focusing on using the digital resources offered by this portal for educational purposes, in order to raise the profile of the Europeana site.
The Europeana portal should become one of the reference points for education and research which will bring young people in Europe closer to their cultural heritage and help create transcultural cohesion in the EU.
In this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament encourages Member States to make equal contributions to the content of the Europeana project and step up their efforts in providing works to libraries and national cultural institutions so that all Europeans can have full access to their own cultural heritage.
This is a long-term task that requires close monitoring and measurable progress.
The own-initiative report proposes a target of 15 million works being made available by 2015, as well as access to the website for all, and in all of the languages of the European Union.
This European project is essential: it contributes to the enhancement of our common heritage, to its influence in the world and thus prevents the monopolisation of these works by private players.
in writing. - I supported the report, as I believe that access to cultural and educational information must be a priority in order to improve educational and living standards in Europe.
As also people with disabilities should have the benefit of digital technology and enjoy easier access to education and information through accessible formats and adapted technologies.
Therefore it is essential to guarantee and simplify universal access to European cultural heritage and to ensure that it be promoted and preserved for generations to come.
The collection and preservation of the artistic and cultural heritage of European Union Member States, by establishing a multimedia platform that gathers together images, sounds and videos to create a resource that is simultaneously a library, a museum and an archive: this is the aim of the Europeana project which, launched in 2008, is now putting European artistic heritage online thanks to the contribution of more than 1 000 cultural institutions.
Although it still has a number of weak points, including publicising and raising awareness of the project itself, the problem of putting 'orphan' works or works subject to copyright online and, not least, a certain patchiness of the objects and materials made available, Europeana is nevertheless exploiting new forms of technology to computerise European cultural heritage on a large scale, drawing not only on EU resources, but also on national and private resources.
However, I believe that certain matters, which were not adopted in their entirety, must continue to be discussed, such as managing the site, funding methods and, above all, organising the site in the form of a single database and not a portal.
Europeana can become a successful project for the European Union as long as it is built on the EU's values and ideals and provides the focal point for European cultural information.
I voted in favour of the report on 'Europeana - the next steps', which encourages all EU Member States to be more active in making available contributions from their national libraries and cultural institutions, so that all Europeans have full access to their own cultural heritage.
The target of storing more than 15 million works on the site in the short term may help to protect Europe's cultural heritage, so that future generations may be able to put together a collective European memory.
Even during the periods when divisions and even hostility between the countries of Europe were most evident, European culture and science have always been able to cross those borders and spread throughout the area that today makes up the Union, and even beyond.
It is more than fair to highlight the role of the universities in that respect.
With their religious origins, they played a decisive part in reconnecting the sundered parts of what came to be the respublica christiana, and in remembering all those who were able to overcome the divisions and make their ideas heard throughout the continent and, from there, throughout the world.
Europeana opened in November 2008 and its aim is to make Europe's cultural and scientific heritage accessible to all on the Internet.
Europeana currently has a catalogue of 6 million digitised works and the aim is to reach 10 million entries by June 2010.
The second phase of the project will see the launch of a fully operational Europeana.eu in 2011, which will be more multilingual in character and will have semantic web features.
Only 5% of all digital books are available in Europeana and almost half of these come from France, followed by Germany (16%), the Netherlands (8%), and the United Kingdom (8%).
I support the call for Europeana to reach a stock of at least 15 million different digitised objects by 2015.
The creation of a digital library, museum and archive of European cultural heritage - from literary works to other materials of cultural and scientific importance - will bring significant benefits in the areas of education, research and culture.
It is also essential not to forget the importance of doing so in formats and media that ensure access for disabled people.
Nevertheless, there are certain aspects of the adopted resolution that are less clear and others that have not been sufficiently developed.
It is not clear how it will be determined what cultural and scientific content will be included in Europeana or by whom, nor how it will be administered; these issues are important in assessing the extent to which it will ensure proper representation of the diversity of Europe's cultural heritage.
We believe that cultural and scientific heritage belongs to everyone and must be freely accessible to the entire population; it must not be treated as a tradable commodity.
It was with this in mind that, in spite of some teething troubles, Europeana, the amazing digital library that today contains nearly 6 million digitised works, was launched in 2008.
Finally, I myself attach particular importance to improvements being made to facilitate access to this tool for disabled members of the public; therefore, the Member States should provide these people with full access, free of charge, to Europe's collective knowledge by means of accessible formats and appropriate technologies.
The Europeana project, the European Union's digital library, must be welcomed as an initiative intended to create a European cultural forum, providing Europe's citizens with extensive access to Europe's cultural heritage.
Unfortunately, although the project was launched back in November 2008, it is not making progress, primarily due to obstacles over copyright, as well as reduced funding.
The final version of the European Parliament's report adopted today puts forward useful recommendations for managing this project in the future.
Secondly, this report allows us to highlight the fact that real results can be achieved not only through large-scale digitisation of literary works, but also by finding immediate solutions allowing copyright works to be used.
This report can make an important contribution to the existing framework through the regulations proposed on displaying works, which must be free of charge, while downloading them should be charged at an affordable price.
The dissemination of European cultural heritage is beneficial for several sectors, particularly education, science, research and tourism, among others.
However, it is not being disseminated at all well, and there is a big discrepancy between the Member States as regards the digitalisation of their cultural heritage in order to facilitate access to it.
A joint effort is needed that leads to the quick adoption of new technologies allowing the whole of Europe's cultural heritage to be quickly compiled in high-quality digital formats.
The fact that commercial operators register considerably more hits with Google Books and have progressed further in their development is logical and is associated with the greater level of awareness of Google Books.
In order to achieve more rapid progress with Europeana and to make the digital library more familiar, we first need to get more universities and institutions involved in the project.
Even if Europeana is important for European cultural heritage and knowledge, understanding for an increase in funds - and to be provided from economic-development funds, too - is limited, particularly at a time of financial crisis and in view of the billions going to help Greece.
I have therefore abstained from voting.
Europe has one of the world's largest cultural treasure troves, which, in my opinion, should be accessible to the broadest spectrum of society.
It is somewhat regrettable that not all EU countries are equally active in transferring their cultural heritage to virtual space.
They need to be addressed as soon as possible so that the people of Europe and the whole world can access Europe's cultural heritage.
I hope that the report we have adopted will further accelerate the implementation of the Europeana project.
The positive vote on the Europeana programme means support for efforts to digitise the cultural heritage of the Member States.
Unfortunately, 47% of the content of Europeana currently comes from France, while countries which should have a strong presence, given their massive cultural heritage, such as Greece, only represent a scant percentage of the digitised files.
The objective was to put European cultural heritage online to make it more accessible for everyone.
in writing. - (PL) As a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, I endorse the report on Europeana - the next steps.
Europeana, by combining the resources of Europe's national digital libraries, has become a digital access point to the cultural and scientific heritage of humanity.
The project has been endorsed by the Polish Librarians' Association.
Effective realisation of the project requires stable financial resources, which will guarantee the participation of national libraries and universal access to Europeana's resources.
Currently, only 5% of Europe's cultural heritage is available in digitised form.
The project assumes that from June 2010, 10 million digitised objects will be available, and 15 million in 2011.
To make this possible, it is necessary to increase funding for the digitisation of cultural products, while ensuring close cooperation between rights-holders, cultural institutions and the public and private sector.
in writing. - (PL) I think opening the Europeana multimedia Internet library is an extremely significant step in the process of digitising the cultural heritage of Europe and the world.
A major barrier to the further development of Europeana is the existence of different copyright regulations in different Member States.
We should strive to harmonise the law in order to make as many works available to the citizens as possible, while also ensuring a fair deal for the authors.
The success of the project will depend to a large extent on the continued financial commitment of Member States.
The new resolution reproduces a large part of the initial resolution and therefore incorporates the amendments that I had tabled and which were adopted, but the new text aims, above all, to deny citizens the means to add content to Europeana through a special space and the prospect of developing Web 2.0 tools.
I voted for this report because it urges the European Commission to assess the application of the animal welfare action plan that is currently in force (2006-2010) and draw up another action plan for 2011-2015.
There is also provision in this report for the establishment of a tighter monitoring system and more effective punishments for the owners of animals who do not respect the welfare requirements established by law and for the compensation of European farmers for the additional production costs associated with higher welfare standards; it also argues that the financing of these measures should be incorporated into the grants scheme of the new common agricultural policy from 2013.
The next action plan must focus on a general European animal welfare law, on a European centre for animal welfare and animal health, on better enforcement of existing legislation, on the relationship between animal health and public health, and on new technologies.
As a member of the committee which monitors public health and food safety, I particularly welcomed the measures taken to reduce the harmful effects which the use of antibiotics in animal nutrition has on human health, following the ban on them in 2006.
These are further reasons why I voted for this report.
However, I wish to emphasise that the future action plan should include more measures aimed at supporting EU farmers and at improving the enforcement of current regulations on animal transport in Member States.
I welcome the report's recommendation that there should be greater emphasis in the Action Plan on enforcing the legislation which is already in place.
Certainly, the implementation of European rules and penalty systems in relation to animal welfare must be improved to ensure that there is a satisfactory minimum standard of animal welfare in the European Union.
I voted for this report, since it is particularly important to implement European animal welfare policy and legislation to establish common EU animal welfare standards.
Good animal health and good livestock farming are important not only for animal welfare, but also for public health as a whole.
Given that, under EU legislation, all animals are regarded as sentient beings, we must tighten animal welfare checks and adhere to animal protection standards.
Unfortunately, the Commission has not yet prepared a concrete strategy relating to animal welfare standards and has limited itself to the report presented in October 2009.
Thus, only by tightening animal protection legislation and its implementation can we ensure animal protection and avoid animal products that do not comply with the conditions laid down by the general law being offered on the internal market.
Whilst the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) supports animal welfare, this is a matter for the Member States and not for the EU.
The good health and high-quality husbandry of livestock are also of fundamental importance for human public health.
For these reasons, we must make every effort to create a legal framework specifying the minimum standards valid throughout the EU for all forms of livestock husbandry.
Only in this way will free and fair economic competition be made possible on the internal market.
It is also necessary to demand minimum standards on the global market, in order to prevent the cattle of European livestock farmers being relocated outside the EU, to regions with lower standards.
I welcome the rapporteur's suggestion that the higher production costs associated with stricter standards should be compensated within the framework of support under future forms of the CAP.
However, it must be said that no further progress was made in the satellite monitoring of livestock transportation, and it is also regrettable that some European farmers are not following the approved standards, particularly in pig farming.
It should be borne in mind that higher standards require greater financial expenditure, and therefore the decent and responsible farmers are disadvantaged on the market through the behaviour of irresponsible ones.
I voted in favour of the report on evaluation and assessment of the Animal Welfare Action Plan 2006-2010, which proposes that a more stringent system of supervision and more effective penalties for the owners of animals who do not respect the welfare requirements established by law be put in place.
It is essential that European farmers be compensated under the new common agricultural policy for the higher production costs associated with more demanding animal welfare standards.
We would have preferred a more ambitious approach to European animal welfare and we do not want this protection to be formulated in such a way that it prevents individual Member States from setting higher standards than those of the EU regulations.
However, we have decided to view the report as part of a continuing process that will gradually enable these standards to be met and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
I agree with the shadow rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mrs Jeggle, when she says that a more consistent approach to animal welfare is needed, but that does not mean that there is a need for further laws and regulations.
On the other hand, however, human health must be protected from diseases transmitted by animals (whether wild animals, pets, or animals for human consumption), and this requires scientific research to show us how to better regulate and protect public health.
A high level of animal welfare from breeding to slaughter can improve product safety and quality.
European standards in this area are some of the highest in the world.
However, compliance with these standards must not put European producers at a disadvantage in the European market.
Therefore, European farmers must be compensated for the higher production costs inherent to higher animal welfare standards.
The financing of this compensation must consist of new common agricultural policy grant schemes from 2013 onwards.
I would highlight the fact that there was no mention of animal welfare issues in the framework agreement of July 2004, or in any other of the key documents of the Doha Round of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
Further animal welfare standards that have negative effects on the competitiveness of producers must not, therefore, be introduced until our trade partners in the WTO sign up to them.
There are several significant aspects of the adopted report that are positive: first, the need to regulate imports and ensure that all animals and meat imported from third countries meet the same welfare requirements as are applied in the EU; second, the need to adequately cover the additional costs resulting from animal welfare promotion; third, recognition of the limited investment capacity of many small and medium-sized producers, damaged by the unfair way in which the food supply chain works; and, lastly, the proposal for incentives for the regional breeding, marketing and slaughter of animals in order to obviate the need for animals to be transported over long distances for rearing or slaughter.
Unfortunately, the report fails to acknowledge that the current common agricultural policy (CAP) promotes and favours intensive production models, which are frequently incompatible with animal welfare and health.
Moreover, it makes proposals that are unrealistic and barely feasible, such as the development of a satellite system for monitoring the transporting of animals.
Even if the rapporteur does not entirely follow through with her logic, it is refreshing to see that this Parliament is finally becoming aware of a number of problems.
I am equally surprised by the fact that there has been no mention of the legislative regressions imposed by the Commission, in particular with regard to organic production, which impact not only on the quality of products, but also on animal welfare and human health.
It is unacceptable that some foreign communities can insist, on that basis, on cruel methods of slaughter, and even recommend that EU regulations be breached in this area.
The Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report on animal welfare in the EU.
However, we are not in favour of the automatic assignment of new funds to the European agricultural sector as a result of financial loss associated with the consideration of animal welfare.
in writing. - (PL) I think animal welfare is a priority which has a huge influence on public health and the European economy.
At present, the existing Community Action Plan has been implemented to a satisfactory degree, but in the future it will be necessary to pay greater attention to the matter of the transport and monitoring of animals.
We need to strive to reduce differences between current levels of animal welfare standards in different countries of the Union, because at present there are large disparities in the living conditions of animals and there is growing destabilisation in livestock markets.
I welcome the fact that Europe has achieved one of the highest levels in the world in this area.
The creation of a tighter monitoring system and more effective punishments for the owners of animals who do not respect the welfare requirements established by law is essential, but as such measures incur higher costs for farmers, we are in favour of the compensation grants that are included in this plan and are included in the grants scheme of the new common agricultural policy from 2013.
It is important to stress that, alongside this plan, the EU should impose strict and well-defined rules for other countries that do not respect these standards, and so become unfair competition for EU farmers.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's own-initiative report on evaluation and assessment of the Animal Welfare Action Plan (the Paulsen report), because I fully support the objective of strengthening animal welfare in the EU.
On the contrary, I believe that it is vital for the continued pursuit of better animal welfare that it is possible for Member States to lead the way in this area.
in writing. - (SV) I voted in favour of Mrs Paulsen's report on animal welfare legislation.
However, I should like to point out that it is important for this legislation to represent minimum standards.
The Member States and the regions must have the opportunity to implement more far-reaching animal welfare legislation.
One point that I would highlight is the recognition that better quality products means increased costs for producers, especially primary producers, which does not normally mean increased commercial demand, since only a minority of consumers will choose more expensive products.
Finally, it seems important to me to make the argument for creating a European coordinating body and adopting general and common legislation, in order to harmonise best practices and establish supervision mechanisms.
Whilst the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) supports animal welfare, this is a matter for the Member States and not for the EU.
in writing. - Whilst we support measures to manage and protect European forests, we do not support the creation of a new European forestry policy that would transfer powers in this area to the European Union.
The report also refers to the Soil Directive, legislation that the British Conservative Delegation opposes, as soil can be best managed by Member States, because applying the same rules on all soil from Northern Finland to Southern Greece will not bring any benefit to farmers in the UK.
UK farmers already meet very high voluntary standards of soil management and have continued to improve standards.
In my opinion, the report on EU agriculture and climate change has the essential quality of combining protection of the environment with the promotion of a stronger European agricultural sector.
Indeed, the agricultural sector must move resolutely towards means of production that are more respectful of the environment and more sustainable.
To ensure this, we must guarantee better use of resources and product traceability.
I therefore voted for this report because it respects these balances.
in writing. - I gave my full support to this report.
The upcoming CAP reform will have to take into account many issues, including climate change.
It is already clear that climate change will have a negative impact on EU agriculture, especially in the south and south-east regions.
The new CAP, thus, will have to meet growing public demand for a more sustainable agricultural policy.
However, it is also behind 9% of the greenhouse gas emissions in Europe.
The European Parliament is showing that virtuous courses of action are within our reach.
Nitrogen fertilisers used by farmers are significant emitters of CO2.
The conclusions from the report debated on Wednesday in the European Parliament highlight to us that importing agricultural produce from third countries has a much greater detrimental impact on the environment than internal production, which is subject to stricter regulations on reducing carbon dioxide emissions, making it conducive to climate change.
According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, agricultural production needs to grow by 70% in the next 40 years in order to meet the world population's needs.
These policies must be backed up by ambitious targets for cutting carbon dioxide emissions with an adverse environmental impact because we are going round in a vicious circle.
According to the experts, agriculture which is carried out with a disregard for its environmental impact will cause global warming, which will lead to major problems, even in terms of carrying out agriculture in the long term.
European agriculture contributes to achieving the Union's climate change mitigation objectives for 2020.
Greenhouse gas emissions have been decreasing as a result of the increased efficiency of EU agriculture, constant innovations, the use of new techniques such as CO2 storage in the soil, and developments in the production of sustainable, renewable energies.
Innovation therefore has a major role to play in reducing the impact agriculture has on climate change and its environmental consequences.
The role of agriculture in the process of fighting climate change must take into consideration the competitive position of the EU's agri-foodstuffs sector in the world market, so solutions must be found that allow conventional agriculture to contribute to the sustainable management of the environment, while at the same time protecting it from speculation on foodstuffs in the commodities market and the protectionism of international trade.
The Democratic Movement delegation in the European Parliament welcomes the adoption of the report on EU agriculture and climate change.
In the same spirit the Democratic Movement delegation wanted a common European forestry policy to be established in order to promote sustainable forest management and production and to turn the contributions of the timber industry and its economic development to better account.
I voted in favour of the report on EU agriculture and climate change because it puts forward specific measures that can contribute to making agriculture more sustainable.
Agriculture is one of the activities most affected by climate change, but also one of the biggest contributors to CO2 emissions.
The forthcoming review of the common agricultural policy must incentivise the development of practices that allow European agriculture to be better adapted to the consequences of climate change whilst also contributing to slowing it down.
We Swedish Social Democrats voted against the part of the report that calls for a common forestry policy in the EU.
A constant and progressive decrease in greenhouse gas emissions has been seen, and agriculture has made a positive contribution to meeting the targets for decreased emissions set by the European Union.
Moreover, I must point out that, whilst environmental concerns as regards the agricultural sector are legitimate and necessary, they must be duly weighed against the impact of the proposals in terms of agricultural sustainability and productivity.
However, agriculture can also contribute to combating climate change and has great potential for sustainable development.
The common agricultural policy must, therefore, encourage farming practices that limit emissions and/or improve carbon fixation, since agriculture and forestry are the main economic sectors able to capture the CO2 produced by human activities, accumulating and storing it in the soil.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, a 70% increase in world food production will also be needed by 2050 in order to handle the increase in world population.
We will have to produce more, but in a sustainable way, which requires greater efficiency, the adoption of the best techniques and practices, and increased investment in scientific research for this area.
Such dependency threatens the food sovereignty and security of these countries' peoples in the name of an allegedly untouchable 'competitive position of the EU's agri-foodstuffs sector in the world market'.
Agriculture actually has a crucial place and a role to play in the fight against global warming.
In this context the post-2013 CAP must inevitably integrate this 'climate' dimension by providing solutions and assistance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, by encouraging carbon storage in the ground, by developing the production of sustainable renewable energies and by maximising the function of photosynthesis.
The Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report on agriculture and climate change.
On the question of climate change, agriculture should not be treated as a branch of the economy which is harmful.
Quite the opposite, it should be treated as an industry which possesses not only the best possibilities for adapting to changes in the ecosystem, but as one which positively enables the harmful effects of global warming to be combated effectively.
Appropriate management of farms will result in carbon capture and greater food security.
Nonetheless, the preference given to short circuits (although they are not described as such), the priority given to renewable energy sources, the review of costly irrigation systems or even the mitigation of the effects of climate change being described as a 'public good' are too many concessions to our arguments to be ignored.
The optimisation of water resources, the choosing of crop varieties selected for their resistance to climate change and diseases, the protection of soil from erosion, the preservation of pastures, increased forestation, the restoration of damaged areas, better management of forests in such a way as to limit the risk of fire, and new measures to monitor and control disease are all extremely important measures to adapt European agriculture to the effects of global warming.
Today's adoption of the Le Foll report on adapting European agriculture to climate change goes along with this approach.
Let us not forget that the agricultural sector is responsible for almost 10% of CO2 emissions.
Agriculture has much to gain by anticipating the harmful effects of climate change as far as flooded areas, a decrease in farming areas, deforestation and unpredictable returns are concerned.
There are several possibilities: the use of carbon sinks, a renewable energy supply and new irrigation techniques.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against this report.
I also believe that, apart from cross-border environmental issues, it is not appropriate for agricultural policy to be decided at Union level, particularly after enlargement of the EU to 27 countries.
in writing. - For the record: as a chief whip of the PPE Group, I hereby state that the PPE Group's original intention was to vote against paragraph 18/2 (roll-call vote).
I welcome the adoption of paragraphs 18 and 20 concerning respect for and improvement of the quality of soil with carbon fixing and the use of biomass for heating, which might significantly reduce the harmful impact of climate change.
Agriculture can help slow climate change, but it should also be ready to adapt to the impact of global warming.
Climate change is a real threat, but in the short term better management of resources is required.
Rural areas account for 90% of the EU's territory, and more than half of these are involved in farming.
This fact alone underlines the importance of farming to the EU's natural environment.
I voted in favour of this excellent report by the Italian, Mr Dorfmann, on the process begun by the European Commission to revise the criteria for granting the status of 'agricultural area with natural handicaps' and, therefore, the Compensatory Allowance for Permanent Natural Handicaps (ICHN).
This scheme is necessary for rural viability and development, and to combat land abandonment, as well as to protect biodiversity and the environment.
With the correct funding, this scheme can give income aid to farmers who are farming in very difficult conditions.
I believe that the application of uniform criteria will simplify the implementation of the payments scheme for areas with natural handicaps across the European Union, providing greater transparency and uniform treatment for the beneficiaries of these support schemes.
It is absolutely paramount to focus this support in the areas most affected by land abandonment.
Member States have previously identified as disadvantaged more than half of all land used for agriculture in the EU, and it is therefore essential to redefine the concepts and conditions applying to such land.
Support for rural development from the European Agriculture Fund allows Member States, within the framework of improvements to the environment and the countryside, to make payments for natural disadvantages in mountain areas as well as payments in other disadvantaged areas.
These payments should, through the permanent use of agricultural land, contribute towards the preservation of the countryside and support for sustainable systems of agriculture, and should compensate for additional costs and lost earnings.
Research has shown that Member States identify temporarily disadvantaged areas on the basis of a range of different criteria, and these can lead to varying responses and varying levels of payment between the different Member States.
I therefore welcome the rapporteur's suggestion to leave some room to Member States to review the new criteria before commencing payments.
However, there should be a time limit placed on this, as the entire reform process may be greatly delayed through the apathy of some Member States, which would not only have a negative effect on payments from these funds, but would also contribute to a confused legal environment in individual Member States.
I support the entire report.
Support for less-favoured rural areas constitutes an essential element of rural development policy.
I advocate the awarding of adequate compensation payments to less-favoured areas so that farmers help to preserve the rural environment and take up sustainable agriculture that provides public goods, such as landscapes, quality of water and air, and the preservation of biodiversity.
This aid allows social and territorial cohesion, preserving rural areas and gives them the status of an area of vital economic and natural importance.
I hope that the Member States can apply objective soil criteria that are adapted to the conditions of their natural area when designating areas with natural handicaps.
However, these aspects contradict others included in the report, specifically the definition of a 'transitional period' for adapting to the new criteria; in other words, tacit acceptance of the new criteria proposed by the Commission.
If implemented, the Commission's proposal would be extremely damaging to the interests of the southern countries, particularly Portugal.
This report emphasises the importance that the new common agricultural policy will have for all Member States.
The safeguarding of areas with natural handicaps will be one of the main points of this policy that the EU and the regions of the Member States will be implementing, thereby putting subsidiarity into effect in practical terms.
The EU Commission must take this subsidiarity into account, especially when it comes to identifying the parameters that will define these areas.
The Commission must not neglect the fact that the recovery of areas with natural handicaps will provide tangible help for farms affected by the current major crisis, and will help to keep the environment in good condition.
May I remind you that all this must be possible not just in theory, but also in reality, through the allocation of appropriate funds for safeguarding and redeveloping these areas.
In doing this, we could recover and provide incentives for the economic development of agriculture in all areas with potential for growth and determine knock-on effects in the market, such as the agricultural production of foodstuffs typical of the area, and safeguarding of the landscape and the environment.
Achieving this objective will not be possible without close cooperation with Member States.
For this reason, the preparation of a comprehensive strategy for less-favoured areas that meets the local needs of the various regions will lead to a reduction in the existing disparity between Member States as regards the aid that is awarded to them.
Therefore, by exactly defining the areas with natural handicaps, it will be possible to obtain sufficient funds to make use of the land and improve agricultural output.
Smallholders in particular lack the staff to be able to remain competitive.
Consequently, from a business point of view alone, their situation is much more difficult than that of large agricultural undertakings in exposed locations.
With a view to a fairer distribution of compensation payments, I have voted in favour of this report.
I voted for this report, which tackles the problems facing farmers in many EU Member States.
I also wish to point out that I feel that it is appropriate to include in the Commission's future proposal flexible rules which also allow aid to be granted to farmers in zones with natural handicaps with a small area, located from an administrative perspective in units which do not meet the established criteria.
In addition, the report provides for subsidies for these regions not only in respect of food production, but also in a macro-economic context.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
I agree with the rapporteur in his assessment of the review, which began in 2005, of criteria for classifying disadvantaged areas.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, together with my group.
I abstained/voted against the Dorfmann report.
The reason for me taking this position is evident from the report.
Climate change makes it particularly difficult to draw up a list of criteria and fixed standards for subsidies.
The EU has requested detailed maps from the Member States, but only a few countries have supplied them.
One example that is highlighted in the report by the Court of Auditors is that Spain pays out EUR 16 per hectare whereas Malta pays out EUR 250 per hectare for what are understood to be similar circumstances.
The situation today is completely different and even more complicated.
The management of agricultural aid should be handled by the Member States.
A single currency is an obstacle to adapting interest rates and currencies to different circumstances within the euro area.
It has also attempted to correct the uneven apportioning of compensatory payments among Member States resulting from differences in classification, especially of the so-called 'intermediate less-favoured areas (LFAs)'.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it seems logical to me that, when identifying intermediate LFAs, the Member States be allowed to take into account not only biophysical criteria but also others, such as being an island or an outermost region.
It also seems important to me that any region that loses its status as an 'area with natural handicaps' should benefit from a transitional period, enabling it to lessen the impact of losing its subsidies.
Unfortunately, at the moment Europe is at risk of lagging behind Asia, just judging by a few indicators, such as average data transfer rate or the fact that, although broadband communication services are available to more than 90% of the European Union's population, they have only reached consumers in 50% of households.
The Commission must present a clear, ambitious agenda in this area, which takes the form of more than just a vision or a prospects document.
The own-initiative report by Mrs del Castillo Vera is ambitious where the issue of the digital strategy for Europe is concerned.
This widespread use of the Internet is supported by proposals on the manner in which legislation concerning consumers and security should evolve, as well as on necessary digital access to public services.
Moreover, this agenda will enable us to provide support for innovative research and development, thus facilitating a rapid growth in knowledge and access to heritage.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
I am convinced that Europe will only reap benefits of the digital revolution if all EU citizens are mobilised and empowered to participate fully in the new digital society.
I especially welcome the proposals which seek to ensure that all primary and secondary schools have high speed connections by 2015 and that all adults of working age should be offered ICT training opportunities.
In an environment of permanent change and growing competitiveness, ICTs can be a powerful tool in helping sustainable development, as well as fighting poverty and social and economic inequalities.
The aim of adopting the 2015.eu agenda, which is complementary to the EU 2020 strategy, is to make citizens qua consumers the focus of an EU measure that aims to ensure that all Member State citizens can draw on an appropriate reserve of IT abilities to guarantee them access to the main forms of information and communication technology available today.
I support the excellent report on the new Digital Agenda by Mrs del Castillo Vera.
I also agree that it will only reap the rewards of this digital revolution if the European public in its entirety is mobilised and given the means necessary to participate fully in the new digital society.
I voted in favour of this report, which I endorse both in terms of its spirit and its content.
I believe that, by adopting this report, the European Parliament has sent out a clear signal of political leadership with the creation of a digital agenda, a true coherent and comprehensive European plan, which is a fundamental step for Europe's future.
The important thing is to ensure that this change leads to a more democratic, open and inclusive European society and to a prosperous, competitive and knowledge-based future economy.
It is important to focus closely on the growth of broadband connections and the application of digital technologies in key market sectors, such as energy, transport and health.
I appreciate the efforts made by Mrs del Castillo Vera in drafting this report, along with the contribution made by my fellow Members.
The Digital Agenda and the development of the single ICT market feature among our priorities and those of the Presidency.
I welcome the emphasis which is placed in this concept on promoting digital literacy among young people, as they use new technologies the most and must do it, therefore, in a safe, efficient manner.
I am confident that the votes from my fellow Members and I mark an important step towards a total, efficient approach to the European digital future.
I hope that the Commission will support us in establishing clear rules in this area at both EU and Member State level.
Technological developments, especially in terms of making information, content and knowledge available online, have been extremely swift, and in little more than a decade the 'digital' landscape has changed drastically, with mass access to the Internet and mobile communications.
It is, therefore, important to look to the future and define a strategy for the digital agenda, setting concrete goals and paying particular attention to issues relating to the rights of consumers to privacy and to personal data, as well as copyright and the fight against Internet piracy.
An ambitious digital agenda and a universal action plan must be adopted, enabling Europe to progress towards an open and prosperous digital society offering all citizens economic, social and cultural opportunities, and paying particular attention to rural areas.
National and European funds should be used to ensure that all EU citizens have access to broadband Internet at a competitive price by 2013.
There are quite a lot of positives in this report, despite its being developed in the framework of the internal market, which the European Union advocates.
We recognise the underlying benefits of a digital agenda for Europe included in the report, specifically the guarantee of 'access to cultural products for all citizens', the guarantee to 'disabled end-user access at a level equivalent to that available to other end-users', the readiness for 'greater investment in the use of open source software in the EU' and the assertion that 'particular attention should be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, in particular the outermost regions'.
Nonetheless, we believe that a cutting-edge digital agenda rejects any commercialisation of knowledge, education and research.
Strengthening and promoting a 'well-functioning' internal market do not make it more 'consumer-oriented', nor do they lead 'to lower prices', as they are trying to make us believe.
Increased attention needs to be focused on defining a new digital agenda, 2015.eu, which is intended to be more competitive and innovative than the i2010 strategy launched recently, especially with regard to its educational and cultural aspects.
In the text submitted and adopted I emphasised both the importance of children acquiring a basic knowledge of ICT already from primary school level and the added value that online learning can provide to our society, which is in constant flux.
Last but not least, I reaffirmed the need to develop the Europeana project as part of the 2015.eu agenda, implementing it in a way which guarantees it a high profile, while also ensuring that its inherent cultural objective is met.
I believe that our emergence from the economic crisis depends to a large extent on the proposal's ability to facilitate the wide-ranging and efficient application of ICT in the business sector.
Such an initiative could be implemented by specifically offering free Internet connection and consultancy.
A new digital agenda for Europe is essential in order for there to be a digital revolution from which the European public as a whole can benefit.
The EU should ensure the development and application of these technologies, and enable all EU citizens to link up with the new digital society through high-quality, high-speed Internet connections at affordable prices.
Unfortunately, telecommunications markets in many Member States have still not achieved sufficient levels of openness to competition, and consumers and households are therefore discouraged by high prices and do not obtain sufficient digital skills.
At the same time, I support the creation of a better legal framework for the new digital space, which will ensure the protection of basic civil rights and intellectual property rights, as well as preventing computer crime, the dissemination of child pornography and other crimes on the Internet.
In addition, the intention is for Europe to be the most mobile continent in the world in terms of Internet access by 2015.
I support the measures to that effect and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
The new Digital Agenda for Europe is an ambitious programme to disseminate new technologies and fast links in the Member States, which is why I voted for it.
However, apart from the pronouncements in principle which it makes, such as increasing mobile connection speeds and familiarising citizens with the new technologies, it would appear that some objectives will be extremely difficult to attain.
Consequently, the new Digital Agenda for Europe should be supported by a series of coordinated actions and initiatives, such as more generous EU funding to safeguard better access to the Internet, even for pupils at a geographical disadvantage.
The World Wide Web, the GSM standard for mobile telephones, the MPEG standard for digital content and ADSL technology are European inventions.
Over the last four years, ICT policies have confirmed these technologies' role as a driving force in the economic and social modernisation of Europe, and have strengthened Europe's resilience in times of crisis.
I voted in favour of this Parliament own-initiative report given the importance of the Digital Agenda in strengthening European technological leadership.
Parliament reiterates the need for the EU to have sound, swift and efficient infrastructures and encourages the adoption of measures that enable the achievement of full broadband coverage for all citizens.
The adopted report, therefore, is not only committed to providing all citizens with computer skills, but at the same time highlights the need to reinforce Internet security and respect for citizens' rights.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution given the fact that no damaging modifications were included.
As recommended in the excellent report by my Polish fellow Member, Mr Liberadzki, I voted in favour of granting the European Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the EU general budget for the financial year 2008.
I am pleased that certain ideas to which I am very attached have been taken up: the organisation of an interinstitutional conference involving all the parties concerned, in particular the national parliaments and the national auditing bodies, with a view to reforming the discharge procedure; the shortening of deadlines so that discharge is voted on in the year following the year under review; and the call by the European Court of Auditors for a single opinion (the application of the 'single audit' rule) on the reliability and the regularity of the underlying transactions as provided for in the Treaty.
Finally, concerning audits of research bodies in Europe, I am pleased that the European Parliament has reinforced the message that we sent out to the Commission not to question in a harsh and often unfounded manner funding in relation to international audit standards.
Progress has been made with the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008, but there still remains a high number of errors in the areas of the Structural and Cohesion Funds, rural development, scientific research, energy and transport.
Therefore, when implementing the budget for the coming year, special attention should be paid to the simplification of those rules and regulations, the improvement of the mechanism for recovering incorrectly paid funds and the introduction of more effective systems for supervision and control.
Once these measures have been implemented, it is likely that the execution of the EU budget will improve, more effective control of budget funds will be assured, and projects implemented by Member States will have greater added value for the development of various areas of the economy and other areas.
Article 317 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that responsibility for implementation of the EU budget lies with the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, and that the Court of Auditors sends Parliament and the Council a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions.
Lastly, I would note the positive opinion of the Court of Auditors concerning the accounts, which reassures the European public that the Union budget is being appropriately and rigorously managed, despite certain problems that continue to exist and are analysed in detail by this report.
The overview provided by the nearly 40 reports devoted to the implementation of the 2008 EU budget by the various EU bodies is painful.
The Commission is hiding behind the responsibility of the Member States, which are supposed to manage 80% of expenditure, in particular agricultural and regional expenditure.
However, the problems in these two areas are lessening, whereas they are rocketing in the case of subsidies managed directly by Brussels.
The situation as regards pre-accession assistance for Turkey is particularly serious and worrying.
That is why we voted against the majority of these texts on budget discharge.
I think that the situation is evolving in the right direction, but at too slow a rate.
The number of errors has fallen, but we have still not reached the 'tolerable error level'.
I wish to stress the need to make it compulsory for all Member States to submit national management declarations, just as Parliament has repeatedly requested.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the Commission and executive agencies.
The Liberadzki report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Union general budget for the 2008 financial year, Section III - Commission and executive agencies adopts a very negative tone for Greece on a series of issues from manipulation of financial statistics to vague accusations of generalised corruption in the country.
However, this proved to be unfeasible, which is why I voted against the entire Liberadzki report.
However, I voted for the removal of paragraph 376, which proposed that the pre-accession aid for Turkey be reduced to the level provided in 2006, and paragraph 378, in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission to amend the objectives of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, for example by means of special forms of membership.
The reason for this is that I believe it to be wrong that a report on the Commission's discharge should call into question the accession process and accession perspective of candidate countries.
As recommended in the very good report by my excellent fellow Member and Spanish neighbour, Mrs Ayala Sender, I voted in favour of granting the European Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2008.
Concerning the investment facility managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB), which is a risk-bearing instrument funded by the EDF to encourage private investment in the difficult economic and political context of the ACP countries, I have very mixed feelings about the idea that the EIB should present a report as part of the discharge procedure, but this will be a point for discussion, especially if, as Parliament hopes, the Union becomes a shareholder in the EIB.
I believe it is essential for public servants to be answerable to the public, which is why they must give objective and detailed accounts of how public funds have been used.
Although the Court of Auditors believes that the revenue and commitments are free from material error, it is, however, concerned about the high incidence of non-quantifiable errors in budget support commitments and the material level of error in the payments.
I, like the rapporteur, deplore the fact that the Court of Auditors was not able to obtain all the information and documentation concerning 10 sampled payments to international organisations and that consequently it is not able to express an opinion on the regularity of expenditure amounting to EUR 190 million, or 6.7% of the annual expenditure.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
The Members Pat 'the Cope' Gallagher and Liam Aylward voted in favour of the report on the discharge of the European Parliament regarding the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2008, and they both welcome the report's recommendations in relation to improving transparency and responsibility.
I believe it is essential for public servants to be answerable to the public, which is why they must give objective and detailed accounts of how the public funds made available to them have been used.
This report carries out an exhaustive analysis of Parliament's budgetary situation, drawing attention to certain issues that must be urgently reviewed.
Lastly, I would note the positive opinion of the Court of Auditors concerning the accounts, which reassures the European public that the Union budget is being appropriately and rigorously managed.
The discharge report contains a number of points of criticism which require a tightening up of the current procedures and practices.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the implementation of the European Union general budget, Section I - European Parliament.
in writing. - We followed the rapporteur, Staes, in this vote, even though we lost one key amendment, number 22, on the transparency of the use of public funds, defended by the same rapporteur.
I believe it is essential for public servants to be answerable to the public, which is why they must give objective and detailed accounts of how the public funds made available to them have been used.
The Court of Auditors indicated in its annual report that the audit did not give rise to any significant observations as regards the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC).
Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors points to some situations where there has been no improvement, such as the reimbursement of the travel expenses of members of the EESC, which must be based on no more than their true costs, or the fact that the EESC grants its staff a financial advantage not granted by the other institutions, and that that results in higher expenses.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2008, Section VI - European Economic and Social Committee.
I believe it is essential for public servants to be answerable to the public, which is why they must give objective and detailed accounts of how the public funds made available to them have been used.
I note with satisfaction that the report of the Court of Auditors mentions that the audit did not give rise to any significant observations as regards the Committee of the Regions (CoR).
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2008, Section VII - Committee of the Regions.
The increase in external agencies has been playing an important role in concentrating the technical and administrative capabilities that support decision making in the Commission.
The fact that they are scattered throughout EU territory also allows the institutions to really get closer to the public, increasing their visibility and legitimacy.
For this very reason, following the adoption of the Commission communication 'European agencies - the way forward', of 11 March 2008, Parliament, the Council and the Commission relaunched the project of defining a common framework for the agencies and, in 2009, set up an interinstitutional working group.
I think that this group will play a fundamental role in eliminating the problems that the Court of Auditors has identified in several of the agencies, many of them in common, and in defining a common framework that will allow for better financial and budgetary management in the future.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
All the European institutions that depend on the European Union budget have to be thoroughly audited by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with that function.
That is why I voted for the report on the European Police College.
Consolidation of the biregional strategic partnership between the European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, signed in 1999, must be a priority on the European Union's foreign policy agenda.
The partnership's ultimate objective is to create in 2015 a Euro-Latin American global interregional cooperation zone in the areas of politics, economics, trade, and social and cultural affairs, thereby ensuring sustainable development in both regions.
Today's vote means that the European Parliament supports the adoption in future of a Euro-Latin American Charter for Peace and Security which will include, based on the UN Charter and related international legislation, strategies and guidelines on political actions and common security.
Both sides must make significant efforts to reach a common negotiating position as part of the discussions leading up to the UN Conference on climate change, which will be held at the end of the year in Mexico.
The own-initiative report on the EU strategy for relations with Latin America incorporates the approach that the EU promotes within international relations.
Indeed, this text reconciles economic, social, political and institutional dimensions in order to ensure that trade between the two geographical areas also benefits the most disadvantaged populations and contributes to the sustainable development of the subcontinent.
Moreover, the report recommends the harmonisation of financial regulations to introduce greater responsibility on the issue at global level.
I therefore clearly voted in favour of this report.
The European Parliament recently debated a resolution concerning blatant human rights violations in Cuba.
Latin America is a huge continent, which cannot be ignored from an economic or social perspective.
In fact, the European Investment Bank has already been operating in the South American continent for a long time, offering the opportunity for long-term investments, which is a noteworthy sign in itself.
I voted for the report on the EU strategy for relations with Latin America, which argues for the creation of a full biregional strategic partnership.
I share the rapporteur's opinion regarding the need to create deeper and closer ties of biregional cooperation between the European Union and Latin America.
Nevertheless, I believe that the EU has to pay particular attention to one of the Latin American countries whose huge population, economic potential and position as a regional leader already demand it.
Commission communication COM (2007) 281, of 30 May, explicitly recognised that 'EU-Brazil dialogue has not been sufficiently exploited and carried out mainly through EU-Mercosur dialogue.
The correction of this anachronistic and regrettable situation is urgent.
The biregional strategic partnership contributes to further coordination between the EU and Latin America within international forums and institutions.
As well as setting a common agenda it should continue to coordinate positions on matters of global importance, taking account of the interests and concerns of both parties.
That is why I voted for the communication from the Commission 'The European Union and Latin America: Global Players in Partnership', which seeks to identify operational proposals aimed at the full implementation of the biregional strategic partnership.
This report does not give consideration to the real problems that are being experienced in Latin America and does not set out the essential points that should be included in the EU strategy for relations with Latin America.
It does, on the other hand, criticise Bolivia and Venezuela, although it never makes explicit reference to these countries.
Regrettably, the majority of the proposals that we made on the aforementioned issues were rejected, so in the end we voted against the resolution.
I voted in favour of the report with one reservation, which is also a hope: that we will find a solution to the deep-rooted 'tango bond' situation that casts such a shadow over our relationship with Argentina.
The determination to promote relations with Latin American countries could pave the way to resolving the whole issue of European investors' rights, in an appropriate manner.
I vote against this text, which is in breach of the principles of democracy and humanism.
We feel that the fact that the EU is the main investor and the second largest trading partner in Latin America, as well as the main donor of development aid, is reason enough for there to be a clear and well-defined strategy for relations between the EU and Latin America.
This improvement must take place at the next summit, which is being held on 18 May in Madrid and in which the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the European Commission must participate actively.
The comprehensive report on Latin America takes a sensible approach in providing for the development of relations between the EU and the South American States by means of a strategic partnership.
This creation of a Euro-Latin American area has the potential not only to bring positive economic results but also, above all, to strengthen the role of the EU as a foreign-policy player, particularly in respect of the United States.
Unfortunately, the report also contains some paragraphs and certain wordings which hint at the almost missionary zeal of some Members of this House and which could be construed as too much interference in the internal affairs of the South American States.
I voted for this report since it proposes appropriate measures for combating poverty in the region: education and a reduction in the disparities between the richest and poorest countries in the region.
Moreover, it will bring its inhabitants increased security and prosperity.
in writing. - I abstained on the final vote on this report.
Though the report is by no means anything we could accept as a good contribution to the forthcoming EU-Latin America Summit in Madrid, we managed to keep or vote into the text some important aspects.
All in all, 10 out of the 16 green/EFA amendments were adopted.
in writing. - (ES) In view of the fact that some of the expressions included in paragraph 34, introduced by the opinion of the Committee on Development, are so ambiguous that they could be interpreted as being somewhat complacent regarding something as repulsive as abortion, the Spanish delegation of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has asked the group for a separate vote on that paragraph, in order to make it crystal clear that it is opposed to any initiative aimed at infringing the inalienable rights of the most vulnerable.
The ultimate goal is to create a Euro-Latin American global interregional partnership area by 2015, in the areas of politics, economics, trade and social and cultural affairs, intended to ensure sustainable development in both regions.
In this context, I would stress the importance, first of all, of resuming negotiations on the EU-Mercosur Association Agreement, which will surely be the most ambitious biregional agreement ever.
I also welcome the trade partnership agreements between the European Union and Central America and with the Andean Community, as well as the deepening of the existing Association Agreements with Mexico and Chile.
I voted for this report because I consider a partnership between these two regions of the globe essential, as it will bring mutual advantages in the political, economic and social spheres.
The resolution voted on today expresses the European Parliament's concern about the Canadian authorities retaining the visa requirement for Romanian, Bulgarian and Czech citizens, and it calls for this requirement to be waived as soon as possible.
Retaining the visa requirement for citizens from these Member States violates the principle of freedom of movement, creating unjustified discrepancies and inequalities.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, as I believe that the ongoing negotiations towards a comprehensive economic trade agreement could strengthen EU-Canada relations.
It is expected that the forthcoming EU-Canada Summit would focus on reinforcement of the political relationship between the two partners, in particular addressing such shared challenges as negotiations on a comprehensive economic trade agreement, foreign and security challenges, a coordinated response to the financial and economic crisis as also climate change and energy.
As the EU and Canada are committed to build a low-carbon global economy that is safe and sustainable, also to invest in clean energy technologies and become the leaders in green job creation in order the capacity to adapt to the impacts of climate change would be strengthened.
In this situation closer cooperation is needed, on the one hand, between EU Member States in order to resolve the Roma community's problems and, on the other hand, between Member States and Canada in order to create the most effective and transparent system possible for providing information about the conditions for granting visas, so as to reduce the refusal rate.
In fact, in this respect, the resolution's merit lies in that it makes a direct request to the Canadian side to take action in waiving the compulsory visa requirement.
I voted for the joint resolution because it reflects in a concise and objective manner the positive prospect of our future cooperation.
I hope that, in the near future, Canada will waive the visa requirements for Romanian, Czech and Bulgarian citizens, thereby ensuring fair and equal treatment for all European Union citizens.
Bearing in mind the current economic situation and state of the climate, I must emphasise the need for close cooperation in order to identify alternatives to the traditional resources for producing energy, which will respect the particular features of each state, as both the EU and Canada are involved in developing and using low-carbon technologies.
At the same time, cooperation must also be promoted in the energy, climate and maritime sectors in the Arctic region.
A comprehensive economic trade agreement with Canada could make a positive contribution to deepening the already excellent relations between the EU and Canada.
Although difficulties have arisen in this relationship, specifically as regards fisheries, security and immigration, the truth is that, in comparison with other countries, the EU-Canada relationship is stable and profitable for both partners.
I note that the partnership between Canada and the European Union is one of our oldest and closest, dating back to 1959, and that the current negotiations towards a comprehensive economic trade agreement aim to further strengthen EU-Canada relations.
This text is very much in favour of the negotiations initiated by the Commission with a view to securing a global economic and trade agreement between the EU and Canada.
It is therefore natural that over the years this relationship has deepened and improved.
The comprehensive economic trade agreement is going to be approached in a very special way at this summit, in the hope that these negotiations are successful, because the agreement is fundamental to EU-Canada economic relations.
There are still other relevant issues between the EU and Canada, such as Union aid, in particular to Haiti, questions relating to fisheries, and environmental concerns.
We cannot forget that the Treaty of Lisbon has given this House new powers with regard to negotiating international agreements: Parliament must now be involved at all stages of negotiations.
I have voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the EU-Canada Summit, held today, as I think that it is important not only to maintain relations at a high level, but also to deepen and improve them further.
In particular, the planned joint action for the introduction of a bank levy or financial transaction tax at a global level should also be emphasised in this context.
in writing. - The resolution was carried with a large majority.
I abstained because of the wording in paragraph 6 on Roma people justifying Canada's restrictive visa policy against Bulgaria, Romania and the Czech Republic.
The text is largely sound, but it contains two paragraphs that I simply cannot support.
Paragraph 2 states that one of the priority topics to be discussed at the summit should be 'the issue of introducing a bank levy or a transaction tax at global level'.
I strongly oppose this type of levy or tax on international transactions.
The European Parliament has demonstrated through today's vote that it is receptive to signing a new agreement on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data as part of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme.
It has also reiterated that any new agreement in this area must comply with the new legal framework introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The fight against terrorism is still a priority for the EU, and productive cooperation with the US, which includes activities such as exchanging data and information, is an important condition for averting terrorist attacks in future.
I believe that it is vital for this exchange of data to be strictly limited to information requested for combating terrorism, with any transfer of bulk data marking a departure from the principles underlying European legislation and practices.
The European Parliament will now play a part in this, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The objective is to achieve a good balance between effectively protecting our fellow citizens from terrorist risks and respecting individual rights.
In my view, the negotiation mandate presented to the Council today by Parliament supports this view.
Therefore it goes under the responsibility of the Commission and the Council to explore ways of establishing a transparent and legally sound procedure for the authorisation of the transfer and extraction of relevant data as well as for the conduct and supervision of data exchanges.
We must strive to enhance transatlantic cooperation in the areas of justice, freedom and security within a context of respect for human rights and civil liberties.
Solutions should include restricting the scope of the transferred data and listing the types of data that the designated providers are able to filter and extract, as well as the types of data which may be included in a transfer.
Therefore, it is particularly important to urge the Council and the Commission to explore ways of establishing a transparent and legally sound procedure for authorising the transfer and extraction of relevant data as well as for executing and monitoring data exchange operations.
As a national state, Romania has supported the adoption of the SWIFT agreement.
However, the European Parliament considered that the first version of the agreement negotiated by the representatives of the Commission and the US Administration breached the rights of European citizens whose data was processed in bulk rather than only on a specific basis when suspicions were aroused.
It is important for the new agreement, negotiated recently in Washington between representatives of the EU and the US Congress, to address the European Parliament's concerns.
The European Parliament is aware that this agreement is important even for Europeans' security.
It is the norm for this institution to exercise its own prerogatives and to monitor the interests of the European Union's citizens.
The issue of the protection of personal data is an important one for the European Parliament.
We will protect the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens all the way.
Terrorism has to be fought decisively, but the means employed cannot be allowed to create an environment of insecurity for citizens' rights which is the very objective of terror attacks in the first place.
Any new agreement needs to be subordinated to fundamental principles such as a strict limitation of exchanges to necessary counter-terrorism purposes and a European authority has to ensure judicial oversight and respect for fundamental rights requirements under EU law.
Finally because, as the European Parliament will need to approve the agreement drafted, it is unacceptable for even unofficial negotiations to have started without its full and equitable participation.
I believe in the need to enhance transatlantic cooperation in all relevant areas, specifically in the area of freedom, security and justice, but this can only happen if there is absolute respect for fundamental principles, such as proportionality, necessity and reciprocity.
I must, at this juncture, compliment both the Commission and the Council on their new position regarding cooperation with Parliament.
The Council and Commission must keep Europe's legislative body informed during every stage of the negotiation and signing of this agreement.
The European Parliament has expressed its stance on this matter on a number of occasions.
Another key aspect of the resolution stipulates that any data transfer request must be approved by a European judiciary authority.
The data transfer must be justified and take place in a transparent manner.
I wish to stress the need to find a solution for restricting data transfers, which will only allow data to be exchanged for persons suspected of terrorism.
It is important that the principles of reciprocity and proportionality in the agreement are respected and that it is cancelled immediately in the case of non-fulfilment of the obligations which have been assumed.
I firmly believe that the JHA Council will take into consideration the recommendations featuring in this resolution.
International legal cooperation and transatlantic cooperation are fundamental to the fight against terrorism.
I stressed that this cooperation should be established on the basis of mutual trustworthiness and respect for the principles of reciprocity, proportionality and respect for citizens' rights.
Nonetheless, the new motion for a resolution in question demonstrates a new position from the Commission and Council in terms of collaboration with Parliament.
Indeed, we must receive assurances that two important reservations - the question of bulk data transfer and the opportunity for Europeans to have legal redress in the United States - are lifted.
Moreover, this text does not require reciprocity on the part of the United States, but merely dares to 'point out' submissively that it would be normal.
Under the current conditions, the United States authorities would have access to a large quantity of private data on millions of Europeans.
The European Parliament cannot allow the civil rights and freedoms of Europeans to be violated for counter-terrorism purposes.
We know from past experience and common practice that data are used as extensively as possible and often also for profit.
I voted today in favour of Parliament's resolution, which was also supported by most of the political groups and which contains Parliament's conditions for the ratification of the new SWIFT agreement and the start of a new round of negotiations with the US.
Parliament's objective is to lay down flexible rules for promoting transatlantic cooperation which will help to combat terrorism and create a transmission system in which Union citizens can trust.
One of the most sensitive points of negotiation, to which particular attention must be paid, is a reduction in the volume of data transmitted.
In order to achieve this, the new agreement will need to include a series of guarantees designed to ensure compliance with European legislation which protects the personal data of European citizens.
In addition, as stated in the resolution, it is important for EU citizens to be given a better appeal mechanism, so that they can defend their rights more effectively.
in writing. - I abstained on the vote on the Swift resolution (TFTP).
Our group abstained because our key amendments were rejected, namely Amendment 8 asking for data transfer to be subject to judicial authorisation, and Amendment 9 asking for the Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement (MLAA) to be used for Tracking Finance Terrorist Programme (TFTP) purposes.
The fight against terrorism and its financing is an inescapable reality and deserves our full attention, so transatlantic cooperation is imperative.
This motion for a resolution calls for the adoption of a common definition of 'terrorist activity' and a clarification of the concept of 'non-extracted data'.
Attempts are being made not only to safeguard the principle of non-discrimination throughout the data-processing procedure, but also to set up a European authority that is capable of receiving and overseeing the United States' requests.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I understand that the foundations have now been laid to allow the start of negotiations that favour the reaching of a balanced agreement between the European Union and the United States.
Even more the use of PNR data should be based on a single set of principles that would serve as a basis for agreements with third countries and must be in line with European data protection standards.
Technology and mobility are essential features of today's world, and so personal rights and the right to privacy have become values that we must ensure and guard closely.
Thus, the transfer of passenger data must comply with EU data protection standards, and data must only be used in connection with specific crimes or threats.
Given that Passenger Name Record data is used for security purposes, the conditions for the transfer of data must be laid down in international agreements with the EU, ensuring legal certainty for EU citizens and airlines.
In new EU agreements, we must also lay down appropriate supervision and control measures that would help us coordinate the transfer and use of Passenger Name Record data.
The current state of the negotiations still does not reflect the existence of true legal protection for data in the United States, as these data can be kept for years after the security checks have been carried out and there is no legal protection for anyone who is not a US citizen.
The agreements reached with Australia and Canada are more acceptable because more respect is given to the principle of proportionality, as access to the data is limited in terms of type, time and amount by judicial controls.
It is only through a consistent approach and the establishment of general principles and rules regarding the use of PNR data that we can bring an end to this impasse and move on to conclude any international agreements in this field, whether with these three countries or with the avalanche of similar requests that will soon come.
I support the joint proposal to postpone the vote on Parliament's consent, in the hope that with a little more time the negotiations might meet the concerns that Parliament has always expressed.
On the one hand, nobody doubts the particular need to protect the privacy and confidentiality of every citizen's data.
On the other hand, few people would deny that we live in a time in which threats to people's security require, not just better information exchange between police authorities in crime fighting, but also better processing of this information in order to make it more suitable for fighting organised crime and, particularly, terrorism.
I hope that the postponement in the process imposed by the European Parliament will enable a fair balance between these values to be reached.
The current state of the negotiations on data transfers still does not ensure effective legal protection of the data in the United States, as they can be retained for years after the security checks have been carried out and there is no legal protection for anyone who is not a US citizen.
I therefore support the joint proposal to postpone the vote on Parliament's consent, in the hope that more time may allow the negotiations to meet the concerns that this House has expressed on this matter.
Indeed, I believe that, before signing any agreement on the transfer of data to third parties, it would be wiser to first work on the development of a general framework on this type of agreement, defining minimum conditions, such as legal limitation, a solid legal basis, data protection standards and a restricted retention period.
Under the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament is once again called upon to take part in the negotiations on a new PNR agreement between the EU, the US, Australia and Canada.
As a great advocate of the fight against terrorism, the EU is prepared to negotiate any agreement that may be effective in this fight.
For the reasons already mentioned in connection with the SWIFT agreement, I oppose the transfer of data, in particular if the constructive use of these data cannot really be demonstrated or if the misuse of the data cannot be ruled out.
The primary objective is passenger security, but that cannot be achieved at the expense of respect for privacy and protection for personal data.
Restricting data collection, which must always be in keeping with the principle of proportionality and necessity, is of crucial importance to passenger data transmission.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - I did support this resolution as raised many concerns both in the European Parliament and outside it.
I believe that only a complete ban on cyanide mining technologies can protect our water resources and ecosystems against cyanide pollution.
Finally, I voted against this resolution and submitted two amendments as this resolution reflects the viewpoint and interests of a single party. .
However, I voted against the draft resolution for a number of reasons.
We cannot ask the European Commission to ban the use of cyanide technology in gold mining for some Member States, such as Romania, which has major untapped resources.
The Roşia Montană project deserves to receive support in view of its economic and social impact and its full compliance with the restrictions intended to protect the environment and archaeological sites.
I firmly believe that responsible national government authorities will negotiate a level of licence fees which can revitalise and protect the Roşia Montană area with its gold deposits.
As a Member State, Romania is entitled to mine its deposits in safe conditions ensuring protection for the environment, while also reaping the economic and social benefits commensurate with the natural assets it has.
Ten years ago, more than 100 000 cubic metres of cyanide-contaminated water were accidentally discharged into the river system from a gold mine reservoir in Romania.
For several years toxic substances there have endangered the ecological balance, the food chain and basic human requirements for the water from these rivers.
European environmental legislation enshrines the precautionary principle and requires the prevention and monitoring of water pollution.
The cases which have resulted from and consequences of the use of cyanide in mining, as in Romania and other countries, are well documented and extremely worrying.
When I asked the Commission about the recent decision to create cyanide-based gold mines in Bulgaria, the Commission's reply increased my fears.
Finally, the Commission should propose a full ban on the use of cyanide in the EU within the next six months, so that it can be applied by the end of 2012 at the latest.
Also, all Member States should undertake to ban the use of cyanide, as Hungary did recently.
The European Parliament has adopted a resolution in favour of a general ban on the use of cyanide mining technologies by the end of 2011.
The environmental consequences of cyanide pollution are transnational, and therefore this ban must apply at European level.
For example, in January 2000, more than 100 000 cubic metres of cyanide-contaminated water escaped from a gold mine in Romania and polluted the rivers and streams of Romania, Hungary, Serbia and Bulgaria.
We hope that the Member States will stop supporting mining projects using cyanide-based technologies.
At the same time, the Commission will have to encourage the industrial redevelopment of these areas with financial support for green substitute industries, renewable energies and tourism.
In the Swedish gold mining industry, cyanide is used in closed systems in an environmentally sustainable way.
It is degraded before water is released from the system and the best available technology (BAT) provides limit values that are well below internationally agreed safety levels.
Research and development should be encouraged in this area too, but in the current climate a ban would be disastrous from both a social and an economic perspective.
We chose to abstain in the final vote because we cannot support a hasty outright ban that would also penalise mining in those countries in which the handling of cyanide is considered to be safe.
However, we would like the Commission to take immediate action to make processes involving the use of cyanide safe, to ensure that there are closed processes in all Member States and in the long term to phase out the use of cyanide in production by means of a ban.
The particular toxicity of the use of cyanide and the effects of its use in mining, both for those using it and for fauna and flora surrounding the mines, demand a move towards the prohibition of its use in mining, for fear of increased numbers of cases of contamination, with disastrous consequences for people and the environment.
Nonetheless, given the current needs of the mining industry, this prohibition cannot be immediate, so measures to minimise the environmental impact of cyanide use must be studied and introduced.
I voted in favour of this text and am satisfied with the outcome of the vote because cyanide is an extremely toxic chemical that has potentially catastrophic and irreversible effects on the environment and human health.
If we fail to adopt, in a simple joint motion for a resolution, a firm position in favour of a complete ban on the use of cyanide mining technologies in the European Union, then the message that we are sending out to the European Commission becomes meaningless for the future.
The European Parliament has managed to show today that it defends, first and foremost, the general interests and welfare of people.
However, I support the idea of encouraging industrial reconversion in areas where mining based on cyanide technologies has been banned, by providing sufficient financial support for 'clean' industrial sectors, as well as for renewable energy and tourism.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the use of cyanide in mining should be banned in Europe.
I voted against the resolution on banning the use of cyanide mining technologies by the end of 2011 for a number of reasons.
Halting current mining projects using cyanide technologies would deal a severe blow to the Member States using this technology (Finland, Sweden, Spain, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece) and to the Member States which produce cyanides (Belgium, the UK, Czech Republic and Germany).
Europe would become 100% dependent on importing gold, a metal used in Europe's precious metals industry, as well as in the electronics sector.
Regulations and standards are in place to allow such activities to be carried out in safe conditions, in order to prevent any adverse impact.
This principle applies to mining technology as well.
We do not have the right to ban, but we do have the right to protect.
We have to replace this technique with environmentally friendly alternatives, as cyanide mining technologies are responsible for more than 30 serious accidents in the last 25 years.
I voted against this resolution because the 2006 directive which is in force provides maximum protection to the environment and human health, with regard to the use of cyanide technologies in the mining industry.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the final text.
In yesterday's vote in the European Parliament on a general ban on the use of cyanide mining technologies in the European Union, like many other Swedish MEPs I voted against the motion for a resolution.
Cyanides are toxic and it is extremely important for their use to be kept within the framework of established environmental guidelines and for leaching to be carried out in closed processes.
This is standard practice in Europe and minimises the risk of hazardous emissions.
An outright ban on the use of cyanide in mining would mean that the gold mines in Europe, including Sweden, would have to close.
I therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
