It has the status of a candidate country that has been negotiating for several years to join the European Union and, as is known, among the political requirements of Copenhagen, we require that a country that wishes to join the Union has stable political institutions and guarantees democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for minorities.
In relation to the European Union, its interest has even been demonstrated within the government, with the appointment of Minister Bağış, to whom I have spoken many times, specifically responsible for negotiation with the European Union, which is his portfolio.
This actually happened on the occasion of the decision adopted on 11 December by the Turkish Constitutional Court to dissolve the DTP (Demokratik Toplum Partisi) and to prevent a number of its democratically elected representatives from carrying out any political activity.
The Presidency of the Council will continue giving much importance to this matter.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I welcome this very important debate on Turkish democratisation.
Democratic reforms and the democratic transformation of Turkey reinforce stability and security in Turkey and in the wider neighbourhood of the EU and Turkey.
Progress in Turkey inspires reformers and acts as a catalyst for democracy and human rights in the whole region.
Nationalist circles in Turkey have seized this opportunity to attack the government on its policies and on the democratic opening itself.
I agree with Commissioner Rehn that it is terribly important that Turkey move towards democracy.
In October, I congratulated all my Turkish counterparts on daring to hold that debate in spite of public opposition.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, the announcement of the democratic opening last year gave hope of a genuine breakthrough in securing respect for Kurdish linguistic, cultural and human rights in Turkey and closing the door on the years of terrorism and violence.
Yet tonight Parliament joins Council and Commission in expressing our deep concern that what is closed instead with December's Constitutional Court decision is the political party which commands the majority of the vote in the country's Kurdish majority areas, and is what the country's human rights association calls the 'natural negotiator' on behalf of the Kurdish people.
Between 700 and 1 000 of the party's members are reported to be imprisoned, many for simply speaking their own language in public.
The fear that we have to combat, for those of us intent on seeing Turkey join the European Union, is the misplaced fear amongst some of the majority population that, in a multi-ethnic country, what we call minority rights are a threat to the unity of the state.
The first act, as you said, was the dissolution of the DTP, but I also note that, alongside the ban on the DTP, the ban on engaging in political activity, which affects several elected members of its party, also eliminates the figures who were most heavily involved in the democratic and political dialogue to resolve the Kurdish issue.
Therefore, Turkey now needs our support, our unfailing support in this process of democratisation.
These fundamental pillars for a democratic state in Turkey must now be courageously and determinedly promoted by the Turkish Government.
Recently, the DTP was banned; 200 party members, nine mayors, six formers mayors and two former party leaders are in jail.
At the same time, it was noted recently that the judiciary in this country has shown a clear repeated tendency towards the abolition of the government along the same lines as events two or three years ago with Erbakan.
This also applies to Turkey, which must implement those reforms that are necessary to guarantee democracy, the rule of law, and the protection of human rights and the rights of minorities.
The events surrounding the Turkish Constitutional Court's ban on the Democratic Society Party, a party close to the Kurdish minority, are one example of this.
The democratisation process in Turkey undoubtedly depends on the solution of the Kurdish issue.
I therefore hope that the Turkish political system may swiftly develop in line with these principles.
If Turkey succeeds in doing this, then its entry into Europe can only represent a great opportunity for us. (ES) It seems to me that one can say quite forcefully that, since membership negotiations began with Turkey, on the basis of a unanimous agreement of the Council, the process as a whole merits a positive assessment.
I think that it would be a good idea for us to state also, with a view to future negotiations with Turkey, what our majority stance is.
Commissioner Rehn talked about several mayors and DTP politicians being arrested, but my information is that about 1 200 activists are in prison, including members of the BDP party, which has succeeded the DTP.
I agree with those like Mrs in 't Veld and Mrs Flautre that a solid and reliable assurance to Turkey that it will join the EU, if it meets the Copenhagen criteria, is the best leverage we have for democratisation in Turkey - though they owe it to themselves, too.
I would also add that we have to look at how reforms are actually implemented - not just written down on paper in law, but how they are implemented in the field.
Since we as the EU have made this commitment, I think we have to stick to it: we have to be reliable in our foreign policy.
I am afraid that our mechanical evaluation of the criteria for democratisation could eventually do more harm than good, and I would advocate more sensitivity, more responsiveness, and more empathy for Turkey in this matter. (DA) Commissioner Rehn, in my headphones, you were translated as saying that the journey is just as important as the destination.
In contrast, we must speak out against any part of the journey that leads in the wrong direction.
Political parties can be banned; there is corruption in the legal system; there are abuses of human rights; freedom of speech and association do not exist in the same way that they do in countries like Britain or most other European states.
The Copenhagen criteria, with which everyone is familiar, are the important things here.
This means that the EU must also make every effort to support democratisation in Turkey.
I met Dink after the trial of Orhan Pamuk.
I also support the idea of Turkey as a secular and united country that, for over 80 years, has looked to the West.
Of course, the PKK has its political fronts.
What is clear is that the PKK continues not only as a terrorist organisation but also with its criminal networks, which extend beyond Turkey throughout Europe.
The PKK is like a mafia, with a structure carrying out criminal activity, raising funds and bolstering support.
It just seems to me that we ought to be concentrating on doing more to overcome problems such as that in our own countries and helping the Turks in that way, rather than constantly sniping at them and criticising them. (DE) Madam President, I would like once again to point out that the Kurdish Democratic Society Party ban means that a total of 27 Kurdish parties have been banned by the Turkish Government in recent years.
I think that, in a country in which parties are routinely banned, it is no longer possible to talk of democracy.
The prohibition of 27 Kurdish parties almost constitutes an attempt to be included in the Guinness Book of Records.
Orthodox believers have suffered discrimination and there are probably now only around 3 000 of them in Turkey.
A list of names has been compiled here in this House with a position in writing adopted in favour of opening the clerical Seminary of Halki.
The last person to appeal to have the Halki Seminary opened was President Barack Obama.
The ban on the Democratic Society Party (DTP) is not conducive to the success of this democratic initiative.
In addition, a party system that results in better representation of the Turkish population must be introduced.
This development must continue.
The decision by the Constitutional Court to ban the largest Kurdish party is, of course, quite unacceptable and also blocks membership.
In this situation, therefore, the further democratisation of Turkey does, indeed, require better cooperation with the European Union.
The OSCE reports, for example, that Turkey is blocking 3 700 Internet sites.
Another important matter is the ability of women to participate in public life.
The solutions proposed by the Turkish Government are not satisfactory.
It is true they have started to recognise the Kurds' language, but the Turkish constitution still contains Article 42, which bans the teaching of Kurdish as a mother tongue in educational establishments.
On the other hand, all political parties and candidates seeking elected office in democracies must respect the basic principles of democracy and the rule of law, and must commit to pursuing political objectives through exclusively peaceful means.
The progress reports on Turkey presented to the European Parliament are the result of the balances between these forces.
Trade unionists are prosecuted and sentenced in sham trials.
Despite all this, the European Union congratulates Turkey because that is what is required by NATO and the European multinationals investing in the Nabucco pipeline and their economic and geostrategic ambitions for this country and the Middle East in general. (PL) Madam President, I support membership of the European Union for Turkey, but would like to condemn the decision made in December by the Turkish Constitutional Court to ban the DTP.
As we know, the party has been representing Kurdish interests in the Turkish Parliament since 2007.
Although it did this in a symbolic way with 20 members, it has, in recent years, been an important testimony to the process of regulating the Kurdish question which has begun in Turkey.
In that sense, I would, of course, urge this Parliament and the European Union, and I would ask the Commission, to resume or revive still further their efforts to revisit the areas required for membership where we have seen steps forward, in aspects relative, for example, to the need for consensus between political parties and that, of course, this should lead to a call to the Turkish Government to satisfactorily resolve the situation that the Kurdish political party, the DTP, finds itself in. (RO) I am a firm advocate of Turkey's accession to the European Union.
I welcome the Spanish Presidency's position regarding the desire to continue opening negotiating chapters with Turkey.
I would like to tell you that I visited Turkey last year as a member of the Delegation to the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, which came 20 years after my previous visit there, and the progress that has been made by Turkish society is impressive. (EL) Madam President, the years of violence and terrorism in Turkey do not appear to have come to an end.
Despite the reforms and the progress made in Turkey, numerous laws are not applied.
In a resolution adopted by the European Parliament last year, concern was expressed over the situation prevailing in Turkey concerning freedom of speech, as well as regret caused by limited progress in the area of freedom of religion.
Straight after the adoption in December 2009 of the resolution I mentioned, the anxiety of the Union was aroused by a decision made by the Turkish Constitutional Court to ban the DTP or Democratic Society Party, which had 21 Members in the Turkish Parliament.
The pretext for banning the party was links it is alleged to have with the Kurdish PKK. (DE) Madam President, the ruling by the Turkish Constitutional Court that prohibits the pro-Kurdish party for being in violation of the constitution is a clear sign that Turkish domestic policy does not approximate to democracy as we Europeans understand it.
This applies equally to our Member States and the democracy in Turkey.
If, as a global player, we want to pass on not only economic - and as a Social Democrat I would like to emphasise this - but also political values, not only in Europe but also beyond European borders out into the world, then for this, ultimately, we need Turkey.
It must play an essential role in the development, analysis, evaluation and consolidation of that process which we all want to see move as quickly as possible.
I can say that our conclusion in the Commission, in DG Enlargement, concurs with the report and its conclusions concerning how to make our financial assistance more strategic, multiannual and more clearly linked to the needs stemming from the political reform agenda in our countries, in this case, in Turkey.
But, of course, the glass is not yet full, and there are many important reforms that still need to be implemented in Turkey.
The establishment of a specific Commission on Gender Equality is an important step which I hope will help greatly to enhance political representation of women at all levels in Turkish society.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 149) Madam President, the development report on Turkey drafted by the European Commission in 2009 identifies the implementation of constitutional reform as an important challenge in continuing the democratisation process.
Pre-accession talks have been open since 3 October 2005.
