Revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework (debate) Τhe next item is the debate on the following oral questions: the oral question to the Council by Reimer Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the review of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 - B7-0310/2010) and the oral question to the Commission by Reimer Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the review of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 - B7-0311/2010).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets we are putting to the Commission and the Council these oral questions concerning the review of the Multiannual Financial Framework at a time of incredible economic and EU policy challenges and at a time when questions are also being asked about the sustainability of the European Union project.
We are tabling these oral questions because they are linked to the joint statements and promises made in May 2006 as part of the interinstitutional budget agreement, which no longer appear to apply.
That means that we also have to find room in our budget for these new priorities.
Article 311 states explicitly that the Union must provide itself with the means necessary to achieve its objectives and carry through its policies without taking on debt.
You could say that the Statement on the Budget Review of 17 May 2006 contains everything that is necessary for a thorough review of the decisions made then and for their revision, if necessary, as well as an express assurance of the involvement and participation of Parliament in the opinion forming process associated with that.
To this I would add that Article 4 of the interinstitutional agreement makes it expressly clear that, in the case of any review of the treaty that has budgetary implications, the Multiannual Finance Framework and the interinstitutional agreement would need to be revised accordingly.
The Commission should consider whether it should make use of Article 124, that is, whether it should take the initiative to arrange regular meetings at the highest level, the level of presidents of the institutions, as part of the budgetary procedure, in order to finally move these delicate issues forward.
This is because we should also, hopefully in time for or during conciliation, talk about the revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework - Article 312 concerning the Approval Procedure - and the political revision of Budget IIV, also from the perspective of political necessity, about making adjustments in line with the Treaty of Lisbon, about the margins, the reviews, flexibilities, political projects of the future, such as Galileo and ITER, and the European External Action Service, in order to define projects with European added value and, where possible, to exercise restraint of course.
I must start by stressing that there was no agreement at the European Council of December 2005 that the Multiannual Financial Framework should be revised.
The European Council also established that decisions on all aspects of the report could be taken on the basis of the report itself, and that it would be taken into account for the purposes of the preparatory studies for the subsequent financial framework.
The Council does not believe that there is currently an enormous or great need to revise the current Multiannual Financial Framework; this is, above all, because of the need to consider the budgetary and macro-economic situation through which the Member States are currently struggling.
The position adopted by the Council is therefore that any new need must be financed by prioritising or redistributing the credits that are currently awarded.
Nevertheless, it is clear that, if a decision to revise the financial framework had to be adopted, it would - obviously - have to be done with respect for the treaty, including Article 312 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Specifically, the Council agrees with the Commission that the Lisbon legislative package must constitute a technical exercise and cannot mean a modification of the content of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of 17 May 2006.
The new budgetary review that is delayed should be the occasion to rise up to the political vision for the future, as clearly stated by Reimer Böge.
Thank you Mr Obermayr.
However, we must not overlook the fact that we are in the midst of an economic crisis and that we must use every resource available to us to overcome this crisis.
I would like to know if the Commission and the Council believe that these goals can be achieved without substantially increasing the EU budget, or if we are instead going to once again go no further than making declarations that sound good.
Firstly, these cuts that EU Member States are making are being made in order to cut the deficit and the budgets of the European Parliament and the EU are not in deficit.
Let me tell you, it will involve a lot of bureaucracy for such a small agency to collect money from 27 Member States.
Madam President, Commissioner Lewandowski, Mr Espadas Moncalvillo, I am disappointed both by today's reply from the Spanish President-in-Office of the Council and that of Commissioner Lewandowski.
May I remind you that, in 2006, when the majority of the European Parliament voted through the current financial perspective, that was on the condition that there would be a mid-term review and that all income and expenditure would be put to the test.
While we are now all aware that Member States are responsible for reducing their debt, we must have a European understanding for our common global interests in the world, and that must be reflected in our next financial perspective.
The budget perspective for 2007-2013 adopted by the European Parliament in 2006 is, without doubt, a success of the entire Union.
However, such announcements are causing the greatest anxiety in countries such as Poland, because there is a real danger that the resources available for cohesion policy will be reduced, whereas cohesion policy is, in principle, one of the foundations of the European Union.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, the revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework comes at a time of severe economic and financial crisis in Europe.
It is now time to get rid of programmes that have not proved efficient, of which we have many in the present EU budget. (NL) Madam President, a while ago, I put written questions to the Council and the Commission on the Regulation and the Multiannual Financial Framework.
These concerned, in particular, the proposed Article 8(3) of this regulation, and the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 6 May 2008 in Case C-133/06.
The Council said it was still dealing with the regulation, and so I should like to know whether it has now adopted a position on Article 8(3).
In addition, I should like to emphasise that the passerelle clause of Article 312(2) was, in any case, blocked by the Dutch Parliament in November 2009 and cannot be an option. (ES) Madam President, I welcome the Council and the Commissioner.
We need clarification to know, first, if it will be possible to finance all these flagships without damaging agricultural and cohesion policy, and whether we will have to face cuts to traditional policies to finance the new priorities with which the Council is presenting us.
Commissioner, we need this revision precisely in order to be able to put this special committee in place at the same time as preparing this financial review. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic, social and financial crisis of the last few months and years, the new Treaty of Lisbon with its new powers, and the challenge we have set ourselves with Europe 2020, require the mobilisation of massive new financial resources.
With the implementation of the 2020 strategy, I am sure that we will make the right choice and defend employment, quality of life and our social model.
For example, in the draft budget for 2011, the Commission simply presents a margin for manoeuvre of EUR 50 million to support new projects linked to employment and corporate competitiveness, which are top priorities.
Earlier today, we voted on Budget 2011 and we all know how difficult it was to manoeuvre within the very tight margins in the budget.
If we have more demands on it, we will continue to slice it ever thinner unless we increase the resources. (IT) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework is a process that is essential for the future of the Union.
In an economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is unlikely that Member States will increase their contributions, but we can review the current economic framework.
It is in this context, then, that we must re-examine the new Multiannual Financial Framework, because the alternative option of burying our heads in the sand and pretending we cannot see the problem does not strike me as being the best strategy for dealing with it. (RO) You are right, Commissioner, when you say that the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013 and its review must project a political vision, and we must have the courage to embrace this new political vision.
The EU 2020 strategy has to form the basis for reviewing the Multiannual Financial Framework and for the future financial outlook.
Unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis is having an impact on both the EU and national budgets.
The mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework provides a good platform for the European Union's economic recovery.
I would like to say to Mrs Trüpel that it may indeed be interpreted externally that the Commission is suggesting that the Council is not being accurate about the need or the path that needs to be followed in order to change the financial framework and, in turn, the Council could be asking it for a document to serve as a platform for launching that review.
With regard to Mr van der Stoep, I would like to say that we are going to propose that the possibility of flexibility in the Financial Framework Regulation be looked at.
I believe that Lisbon should not be associated only with additional administrative expenditure - which is the case nowadays - and should prove that this is value added, not only regarding the new posts and new type of administrative expenditure that is normally least loved by taxpayers in the European Union.
As to Article 8.3, deleted by the Council, we are to defend flexibility in one form or another.
It is not about supervisory agencies but mainly about ITER, Galileo and other large-scale projects, difficult to place within the existing multiannual framework.
However, we need long-term commitment before budgeting with this need to find the solution.
The Committee on Budgets will, therefore, present an interim report on the procedure for approval of the review of the Multiannual Financial Framework on the basis of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, so that plenary is given the negotiating mandate for further talks in September.
in writing. - (EL) The Treaty of Lisbon sets new priorities for the EU, while the EU 2020 strategy contains ambitious targets in crucial sectors for the future of the EU, which change the data on which the current Multiannual Financial Framework is based.
However, we all know that every new policy, initiative and programme developed by the EU cannot be implemented without the necessary funds.
