He was elected six times before becoming Vice President of the United States in November 2008.
Vice President Biden's visit to the European Union today demonstrates this commitment.
Colleagues, 25 years ago, almost to the day, President Ronald Reagan addressed this Parliament, on 8 May 1985.
I served in a parliament that only had 435 members total; this is even a greater honour.
Much has changed since 1985, much has changed, and a terrible beauty has been born.
As a lawmaker for more than 36 years in our parliament, I feel particularly honoured to address the European Parliament.
President Obama and I were the first running mates in the last 50 years in America to make it to the White House from our legislative bodies, so we both come to our executive jobs with a deep appreciation for the work you do here in the bastion of European democracy.
Together with my former colleagues in the United States Congress, you and I represent more than 800 million people.
Folks, 65 years ago this week, less than 200 km south of here, Nazi leaders signed an unconditional surrender that brought an end to the Second World War in Europe.
Yet, through the will of your fellow citizens and statesmen like Paul-Henri Spaak, for whom this great hall is named, and Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet, and the visions that gave birth to a parliament and earned him the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Lyndon Johnson, here we are: assembled in this hall.
A Europe that is whole, a Europe that is free and a Europe that is at peace. (Applause) As President Obama said in Prague a little more than a year ago, a strong Europe makes a stronger partner for the United States - and we need strong partners.
Because the past 65 years have shown that, when Americans and Europeans devote their energies to common purpose, there is almost nothing we are unable to accomplish.
As leaders we have an obligation to make the case to our populations that this is necessary for our collective security - although, believe me, as a politician who has stood for office for the last 38 years, I understand it is not easy.
Today President Obama and I are closely following the economic and financial crisis in Greece and the European Union's efforts to deal with it.
Those institutions - this institution - have been a great success, but now we have to set our sights on the challenges of this new century I referenced in the beginning.
On a personal level, I have, for 36 years of my career, defended privacy rights.
To change now would make a lie of everything I have said I stood for in my country for the past 37 years.
President Obama and I also believe that government's primary, most fundamental and most solemn duty is to protect its citizens - the citizens it serves - as well as the rights they hold.
As leaders, we share responsibility to do everything we can within the law to protect the 800 million people we collectively serve.
So again, I am here to state unequivocally: President Obama and Joe Biden strongly support a united, a free, an open Europe.
Thank you very, very much. (Applause) - Mr Vice President, thank you very much.
