There needs to be a great deal more venture capital and, in that regard, instead of EUR 1 billion in the next funding period, we really need to aim for EUR 5 billion, as that will provide the banks with just the little bit of support they need in order to grant loans to SMEs.
Let us merge where we are strong; let us in Europe bring together the spirit of research, Einstein and Steve Jobs.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Ms Merkies, for this excellent report.
I would like to take this opportunity to illustrate in concrete terms what Innovation Union will mean for different people.
We are delighted that Parliament gave such strong support on 11 November 2010 to the concept of the innovation partnerships.
As we emphasise in the opinion of the Committee on International Trade, the overarching objective of the 'Innovation Union' must be long-term development and competitiveness based on technology, knowledge and the development of education.
European patents currently cost 15 times more than US patents, hence the reason why we must develop the European patent more quickly and reduce its cost.
Valuable inventions are being made in many of the new Member States but due to lack of funding, the researchers are forced to sell them to other countries and companies for a few thousands, whereas their real worth can be measured in millions.
We may not be able to overtake China and India in the quantity of research, but we can definitely offer quality and better conditions for implementing ideas.
Mr President, we on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have argued that innovations are absolutely crucial to economic development and improved employment, now that Europe is looking for a way out of the economic crisis.
Mr President, Commissioner, the possibility of strongly stimulating the economic and social development that is so necessary in our times is, in fact, integral to innovation.
At the same time, environmental innovation programmes need to be encouraged, so as to plug the gaps which exist in efforts to deal with climate change and promote environmentally-friendly solutions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - Mr President, I would say to the Commissioner that, in recent years, innovation has become a symbol of a policy instrument that can fix all our problems.
This means that there are huge expectations and that we must deliver.
Governance for innovation should therefore do more than just support research and development policy.
Important as they are, it is, first and foremost, about mobilising talents and mobilising new ideas.
Governance for innovation must mean establishing new partnerships enabling efficient innovation systems that mobilise intellectual and entrepreneurial capacities, detecting also sleeping innovators - of which we have many in Europe - through a business environment that is conducive to innovation, and particularly for SMEs, covering all sectors of the economy.
Innovation may derive from research, but it can also be a wide-ranging ability to change things for the better in all areas of daily life.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Merkies, on her excellent work, because she has unpicked the content of the report and concentrated on the more relevant aspects for our group, such as social innovation - understood as innovation by workers and the public - the incentive provided by the public procurement of innovative and green products and services, and the need to improve the access to finance on the part of SMEs.
Ladies and gentlemen, if we understand innovation simply in terms of new products, processes and services that result in an increase in economic activity, it is essential that we equip ourselves with the instruments to measure our innovation capacity precisely in economic terms and that we do so on the basis of parameters, such as private investment and R&amp;D, employment or the number of innovative companies.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (BG) Mr President, Europe is currently faced with a comparatively new but very serious danger of lagging behind or even of a decline in terms of global competition in the field of science and technology.
Such a development would put our prosperity, economic progress and social status under serious pressure.
I congratulate Mrs Merkies on her fine report.
This guarantees success because the Innovation Union is primarily a strategy for the European Union's economic development.
On top of this, however, for the first time in the history of mankind, we need to do this within the physical limits of the planet.
Our conviction is that Europe can be a world leader in this profound transformation, not only of our infrastructure and organisations, but also, and more importantly, of our way of producing, consuming and living.
This requires better alignment between the different EU policies and between what is done at the level of the European Union and what is done at the level of the Member States.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank Ms Merkies for all her efforts and her coordination during the period in which this report was being negotiated among the political groups.
The digital world and information and communication technologies are engines of innovation, and high-speed broadband should be an essential precondition for all European innovation partnerships.
This makes it all the more important for us to promote innovation, which can counteract these problems by providing creative ideas and solutions.
The Innovation Union must help to combat this. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to give my sincere thanks to Mrs Merkies for her hard work.
I would like to mention briefly one other issue.
In the 2020 strategy, we acknowledged the fact that, if we are to maintain our level of prosperity in Europe, we need to increase our productivity.
We therefore need to focus on innovation.
However, it is important that we do not restrict innovation to research and technology.
However, this means that we need to educate and provide further training for our workforce.
I would like to call on the Commission to enter into talks with the two sides of industry to discuss how we can best promote worker-driven innovation in Europe. (PL) Mr President, of course we are all in favour of innovation, particularly when it comes to science and industry - and I say this not only as a politician, but also as someone who once worked at a university, since I was a lecturer before I became a politician.
In reality, however - and a few speakers have already mentioned this - we are losing the race for innovation against countries such as the United States and the Middle Eastern countries.
I am very pleased by the adoption of the amendment I tabled, which has been included as paragraph 167 and which calls for cooperation with the countries participating in the Eastern Partnership, and I hope that paragraph 71 will be similarly amended.
This paragraph does admittedly refer to the Mediterranean countries, but it should be extended to include all countries involved in the European Neighbourhood Policy. (EL) Mr President, Mrs Merkies has produced an excellent report and I congratulate her.
Of course, we also have the EU 2020 strategy, we have numerous efforts and numerous reports on innovation and youth employment on paper, which we need to put into practice.
Young people in Europe are unemployed at a rate of 9.6% in terms of general unemployment, but this rate exceeds 20.2% for young people aged 19-27 and, of course, these people are in despair.
By 2050, the ratio of EU citizens of working age to those over the age of 65 will fall from 4:1 to 2:1.
As part of our labour market policy, we will have to coordinate our family and equality policies, instead of seeing them as contradictory. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work.
The 'Innovation Union' initiative introduces a strategic European innovation policy that is integrated and oriented towards companies and people.
In addition, young people are the engine of innovation: we therefore need to implement policies that promote young people's access to the labour market.
It is also essential to create proper support mechanisms for small and medium-sized enterprises.
A further key issue is the funding of innovation in the SME sector, upon which we should place much more emphasis. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, the main challenge is to do things differently - in a much less fragmented way, to have much less parallel activity from the Member States and the European Union - and also to invest in a better-targeted way.
Along with Mrs Merkies, we will keep a close eye on you. (RO) Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Merkies for the excellently drafted report.
Finally, we call on the Commission to transpose the Union's innovation policy into an action plan with specific objectives and measurable targets. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mrs Merkies on her excellent work.
I believe we have to invest more in innovation, research and knowledge, and we have to do so more boldly.
Facilitating and simplifying life for small and medium-sized enterprises through a one-stop shop and focusing on talent, creativity and innovative ideas are essential conditions for growth and development.
Europe must take innovation policies seriously if we want to find a way out of the crisis and build a better future for our younger generations. (RO) Mr President, at the moment, research and innovation are the privilege of the most developed Member States, which is detrimental to the European Union.
The European Union must take this factor into account and foster the balance of potential innovative capabilities throughout the whole EU.
A realistic solution is to create specific instruments which will be earmarked only for research and innovation. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Merkies, this strategy is important to all European countries, especially those whose economies are not competitive enough.
It is essential to the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Finally, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Merkies, on her important contribution to a more innovative Europe with a more knowledge-based economy. (LT) Mr President, I would like to add to the many congratulations my group colleague has already received for drafting an excellent report.
The European Union is at a difficult crossroads.
In today's global context, innovation policy has a huge impact on all areas of life and, in future, it will become the main pillar of economic, cultural and social development in the European Union.
The area of European research would also be supported by the introduction of a single European patent which, besides protecting the intellectual property of innovators, would also have the potential to reduce lengthy and costly bureaucratic processes, and avoid repeat applications from one entity in all Member States. (RO) Madam President, achieving the Europe 2020 strategy target of increasing research and development investment to up to 3% of GDP could create 3.7 million jobs and boost annual GDP by up to EUR 795 billion by 2025.
This is the only way we will be able to achieve sustainable growth in Europe and resist the ever-growing pressure of globalisation. (RO) Madam President, the Innovative Union initiative promotes a strategic European policy geared towards business.
This means that globalisation and research are key factors in external competitiveness and economic growth.
In conclusion, I say that this is vitally important, particularly during these very difficult economic times, both in Ireland and throughout the Union. (PT) Madam President, at a time of serious economic and social crisis, like that currently being experienced in a number of European Union Member States, a debate on innovation in all fields of knowledge and in all economic and social areas is welcome.
In this context, it is essential not to forget unemployment, which already affects around a quarter of young people, many of whom have been through higher education; not to forget that jobs are increasingly insecure, especially for women and young people; and not to forget the growth of poverty and social exclusion.
Thirdly, we need to develop the European patent.
I think everybody here agrees that we need to improve the conditions for innovation.
It is about taking the very basic blue-sky research that we do so well in the European Union, and translating it all the way to the marketplace so that we provide the jobs here, and they are not provided abroad.
This is really important and we need to develop synergies between research and innovation funding, on the one hand, and structural funds, on the other.
Indeed, Ms Merkies underlines that point in her report.
I will go in a couple of weeks' time to Debrecen, in Hungary, to the 'Week of innovative regions of Europe' conference, where all the regions will come together to talk about the concept of smart specialisation.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would like to thank colleagues and innovative citizens for all their very valuable contributions.
We are in unison here: we want to boost economic growth and move towards a different, sustainable social model.
Let us change our economic model, move towards a sustainable model and create jobs.
In the Committee on Budgets, we are working on firmly implanting the Europe 2020 flagship in the European Union's strategy through an independent financial framework.
If 3% of the EU's GDP can really be earmarked for research and development by 2020, 3.7 million new jobs will be created, which would increase annual GDP by some EUR 800 million by 2025.
As a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, I support the 'Innovation Union' initiative.
I would also call for such guidelines to be implemented effectively by the Member States.
