We also have the growing disorder in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, as well as the renewed unrest in Tunisia and Egypt.
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, this will be the first of three contributions that I will make to honourable Members this morning, so I want to start by giving you my vision of the issues that face us and also to try and touch upon some of the detail of the issues that honourable Members have added to this debate, knowing the importance that you attach to them.
The European Union itself was born in the ashes of conflicts that remind us how terrible life can be when democracy breaks down.
Freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right that must be protected everywhere.
We need to condemn all those who seek to use religious belief as a means of oppression, and support those who advocate tolerance, whether in Syria, in Pakistan, in Egypt or elsewhere.
Sanctions on Syria were imposed yesterday - an embargo on arms, an asset freeze and a travel ban for 13 key individuals in the regime, the freezing of our association agreement and of our cooperation with Syria.
In our eastern neighbourhood - in Belarus - President Lukashenko failed to use last December's presidential elections to show his readiness for change and a more open and democratic, European society.
But, as honourable Members know from the letters I have received individually and collectively in this House and beyond, there is no simple solution here.
In Yemen, too, the Gulf Cooperation Council has put forward its proposals and President Saleh has once again hesitated.
I told him that he knew what he had to do - in the interests of his country - and that he should do it.
In all of these cases, it is about the direct engagement that we have and the pressure that we apply and the directness of our approach.
There are Members of this House who wish we had a stronger defence and security policy.
It was in my discussions with Ban Ki-Moon that we agreed to bring together the regional organisations for a meeting in Cairo and to follow up after the contact group meeting in Rome.
We are discussing together how to play our part in the future of Libya - to support the national dialogue, to help with the constitution and to prepare for elections.
I have sent two missions to Libya to meet with and work with young people and with the women in Libya.
They talked of how they longed for the end of the regime, so let us also be clear: Gaddafi must go from power and must end his regime. (Applause) I intend to open an office in Benghazi so that we can move forward on the support we have discussed with the people ... (Applause) ...
Some things are extremely important to support these countries into the future.
These are young societies where young people long for greater opportunities, and the European Parliament has a big role to play in supporting those opportunities for young people to gain benefits and knowledge from Europe.
Not just what we can do in direct support - although that is important - but what we can leverage.
Prime Minister Essebsi's speech on television may help as the country moves towards elections on 24 July, but he acknowledged the problems of a country where economic growth rates are down to between 0 and 1%.
We have to ensure support to Tunisia, to its economy and its civil society, and that means thinking not just of the long term, not just of the importance of a new strategy, but of what we do now and how we support countries - Egypt, Tunisia and others - right now with the budgetary problems that they have.
On Egypt: I have been there three times in recent weeks and I have spent a lot of time with some of the young leaders from Tahrir Square, and also meeting some of the women.
I met one woman who will be a presidential candidate and who is determined to show that women have that role to play in Egypt.
It is why the vote that we won at the UN, the voice that we now have, can play its part.
I have been in close contact with President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad, as well as with Egypt, the Arab League, the United States and with Israel.
I want to see the people of Gaza with a future, but I also want to see Gilad Shalit, captive for years in Gaza, given the chance to go home to his mother and father whom I have already met.
In North Africa and the Arab world, that destination will not be reached quickly or without setbacks, but building deep democracy is the only way that destination will be reached at all.
It is why I am proposing to support the endowment for democracy which will enable us, too, to use our resources to support opportunities, particularly for young people, to engage in political life, to support the development of political parties, to enable people to do what honourable Members in so many countries represented here had to do themselves - i.e.
She said: 'Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world.
Europe backed stability and development aid in the Mediterranean.
Yet the people are - quite legitimately - demanding political freedom and are fleeing their countries because there is no prospect of a life of dignity and opportunity for them and their children.
I would like to think so.
If Europe is capable of becoming a key player in this area, it will be able to put the errors of its youth behind it.
Please come up with some proposals for using that money, rather than returning it to the Member States. (Applause) Mr President, in a European Union where we are seeing moves towards renationalisation in all areas, the Treaty of Lisbon should be used as a tool for creating a new community policy: the common foreign, security and defence policy.
This is the first important general debate which we have held with Baroness Ashton and, if we look back to the early days, it was already clear then that there were certain governments which did not want the title of 'Foreign Minister of the European Union' to be used and this has ultimately led to the name of 'High Representative' being chosen.
Over the last few days, I have read articles about Baroness Ashton which have astonished me, because they criticise her absence and her lack of policies.
The larger the Auswärtige Amt, the Foreign Office or the Quai d'Orsay, the more pronounced this tendency is.
Baroness Ashton, you will undoubtedly receive broad support from Parliament if you say to these people that, although you respect their unilateral interests, the common European foreign policy cannot take the same direction.
That is not the sort of credibility which Europe needs. (Applause) The credibility which Europe needs is that of soft power, which helps to establish democracy, which opens an office to support developments in civil society and which does not define international cooperation with the European Union in terms of subjugating others to the unilateral diplomatic and economic interests of the Union, but instead encourages policies based on an equal partnership between different regions of the world.
We in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament know that we are still in the early stages of the cooperation between you and Parliament and there are certainly some areas for improvement.
The conclusion of this meeting, and my conclusion also after this meeting on my second trip to Cairo in the last two months, is - as you have indicated - that we need to give massive help to these revolutions in North Africa and especially to developments in Egypt.
Not 162 billion, but one billion.
Not in 2011, not in 2012, but in 2013, when we have the possibility to do so.
I think that is nothing at all.
Let us be honest, Baroness Ashton.
What is happening there - and I have no other words to describe it - is nothing less than an Arab Tiananmen.
Soldiers who do not want to shoot at their own people are themselves shot by the secret services of the army and of Bashar al-Assad.
From what is happening today in Syria, it is very clear that there is only one way to describe Bashar al-Assad, and that is as the most brutal dictator in the world at the moment.
If, in these few days, he does not stop what is happening at the moment, then freeze all assets, not only of the 13 people but of the whole Assad family. (Applause) Impose a travel ban not on 13 people when 800 are killed, but on the whole Assad family and declare what is very important.
Today. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the major development in the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) this year has undoubtedly been the establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS).
However, you can only ever be as effective as the Member States will allow you to be and, of course, you are reluctant to use your own powers of initiative - an approach which I fully support.
On the one hand, the EU wants to carve out its global role as a diplomatic heavyweight but, on the other hand, the CFSP requires unanimity, which means compromising to preserve the interests of individual Member States, particularly the big ones.
This hybrid sui generis approach to EU foreign policy vindicates those of us who opposed the creation of the EEAS in the first place, believing then that the EU's global ambitions would undermine national sovereignty.
Secondly, Madam Vice-President/High Representative, will you broker a solution for the closure of Camp Ashraf in Iraq?
The only solution for Syria is for President Assad to relinquish power in Syria: that should be Europe's position.
That cannot be the solution. (Applause) My last question: 600 people died on the Libyan coast a few days ago.
I would therefore like to know: what boat was it and what information is available?
To be honest, it is clear that EU foreign policy has failed in some areas, including in the Arab world, in Afghanistan, in finding a resolution to the Palestinian problem and in the conflicts among our eastern neighbours.
With 27 different nations making decisions, how can we reach a consensus within the EU and within the common foreign and security policy?
The Members of this House almost cheered when the UN Security Council decided to take military intervention in Libya.
The revolutions in the Arab countries have one important demand in common.
They are all calling for justice and fairness, both in the distribution of wealth within society and in democratic participation in political decision making, including international relations.
This question, High Representative, is all the more pressing after Fatah and Hamas last week re-established Palestinian unity whilst completely ignoring the conditions of the parties, in other words, including the European Union, for a unified Palestinian Government, namely, recognition of the State of Israel, the renunciation of violence and terrorism and compliance with earlier commitments.
Hence my pressing question: how, in this new situation, will the European Union apply its own Quartet principles?
This House wants to deal directly with the High Representative and Vice-President, Baroness Ashton, particularly because of our role in controlling the budgets of civilian and military missions under the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common security and defence policy (CSDP).
The first part of the report particularly concerns the relationship between Parliament and the other institutions, primarily the Council and the Commission, driven by the post-Lisbon approach to European politics.
The report rightly highlights the great wave of civil protest in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, and also in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, and points out events, contexts and expectations for each of these countries, as well as other subjects of particular interest, such as our strong transatlantic alliance and our hugely important relations with Russia.
Enlargement, support for civil rights and the establishment of the rule of law, diplomatic relations with the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China), the Arab-Palestinian conflict and condemnation of the bloodiest regimes are some of the subjects of the report that I am submitting to your vote.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the common security and defence policy (CSDP) is going through an extremely difficult time.
The report I am presenting seeks to tackle this contradiction and suggests possible answers for the other institutions.
At the same time, we hope that CSDP assets will be used effectively to provide humanitarian assistance to the civilian population under attack and that future operations will be planned in such a way as to support the development of democracy in Libya.
We do not find the idea of renationalising this policy convincing, not because we are Treaty purists, but because, if it were renationalised, this policy would not be equal to the challenges that lie ahead.
We propose that Parliament should enter into a strategic dialogue with the European Council, which we call on to discuss Parliament's recommendations, to draw up a proper foreign policy strategy and to devote an extraordinary meeting to European security and defence.
We call on you, Baroness Ashton, to intensify your efforts to build a consensus among the Member States and to make use of your multiple functions to improve consistency between the CSDP, the common foreign and security policy and the other facets of the Union's external action.
The report puts forward several proposals for the role it should play, starting with that of being a crisis management board able to provide a genuinely integrated response to crises, and we are delighted to see that it is taking shape.
This involves pooling, sharing, strengthening of the European Defence Agency, permanent structured cooperation, development of an efficient and competitive European defence market, strengthening of the industrial and technological base, and enhancement of joint command and control capabilities.
The inadequacy of these capabilities has been a factor preventing Europe from responding promptly to the Libyan crisis, starting with setting up a permanent operations general headquarters.
The report formulates a large number of concrete proposals on this and other issues, such as the integration of external and internal security policies in a way that respects the primacy of the Community method.
Parliament is ready to support the development of a CSDP that is fully integrated with the Union's external action and is rooted in the values and principles of Europe.
This process has already begun with the approval of the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 3 May, which will allow the European Union to participate in the General Assembly's work.
Baroness Ashton, we can all remember the Copenhagen climate change summit as an example of the useless cacophony that is brought about by over-representation of the European Union and its Member States.
Moreover, we can remember how disconcerting multiple representation of the various presidencies of the European Union can be in summit diplomacy, or the dysfunction that can arise through not implementing the provisions of Article 34 of the Treaty of Lisbon on the coordination of the European members of the United Nations Security Council when the common positions of the European Union are put forward.
I am referring, in this sense, more to the Member States than to yourself, in the call to construct the role of the European Union in a more structured multilateral world order and to draft a real EU foreign policy, setting aside any renationalising tendencies and temptations that are appearing in a number of our Member States.
You can count on the support of this Parliament, and not only its support, in fact, but also its mandate to establish a rational, structured and coherent representation of the European Union on the international stage as soon as possible.
As Mr Verhofstadt said, we need the support of the Commission to really move and change and have a new strategy and a new ambition in the long and the short term.
It is difficult for individual Member States with individual constituencies to necessarily always be able to look at this through the lens of what is best for Europe in the world, and not what is best for the domestic situation.
There was a lot of discussion, Mr Cohn-Bendit, about whether President Assad should be on and there were lots of different views.
Mr Tannock, you talked about many things to do with the support of the 27, your desire to see us get the proper resources and being short-changed.
I made it clear that our position on Hamas has not changed, but I made it clear that we support ways in which President Abbas can bring unity with Palestinians with his technocratic government and with elections, which is going to be so important.
We have not changed our position, and we are very clear that we are cautious in looking at this situation.
We are also trying to improve the work of the European Defence Agency and to take up some of the challenges that we have clearly seen in the responses that we have had in recent weeks, especially in Libya.
Finally, I would like to thank Ms Muñiz De Urquiza for this report and for her support on the UN.
However, we could follow the example of a similar area of policy which already functions extremely well, in other words, external trade policy.
We may disagree in other areas, but here we are strong and united.
It is time for us to use our strength to ensure that the people living in our partner countries can benefit from the values that have helped us: human rights, social security, justice and freedom.
I would like to say that, as a newcomer to this role, I had expected sharp altercations, particularly since the report has a certain military aspect to it, but as it turned out, the work progressed very peacefully.
Of course, we cannot say that the common security and defence policy will be a wonder drug for all the world's evils, but development of the CSDP would certainly mean we would know more about those conflicts and that we could perhaps prevent or resolve them.
The ministers of the Weimar initiative have raised this in a letter to you, Mrs Ashton.
Finally, I would like to mention EU-NATO relations.
We know revolution is not possible, Mrs Ashton, but we do expect you to take action which will aid evolution. (FR) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, you have faced many criticisms over the last few days, Baroness Ashton.
Others, however, cannot be dismissed out of hand and I would like to share my concerns with you.
Your communiqués are adopted but are often low-key, from which we can deduce that there are probably differences of opinion within the Union, which is, in itself, a message, albeit a negative one.
For instance, the Fatah-Hamas reconciliation would have been inconceivable without the Arab revolution in Egypt and also without the recent bloody repression in Syria.
Furthermore, I share the anger of some of my fellow Members regarding the Syrian exception and now the exception for Bashar al-Assad, who has avoided sanctions.
It is this ambiguity that weighs us down.
As we know, the situation is certainly very complicated.
Both parties have made incredible concessions to form this government.
Parliament will always be behind you if you have the courage to provide a strong vision. (DE) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, we are still a long way from a common foreign policy which is really worthy of the name.
There is nothing you can do to change this, but it gives Europe a negative image.
In this case, you must stand up here and say: 'We have only been able to put 13 on the list'.
If you can bring this about, you will have our full support. (PL) Madam President, Mrs Ashton, one of the most moving moments of my life was in December 2007, when I was present at the symbolic opening of the border between Poland and Lithuania by President Kaczyński and President Adamkus, a ceremony held to mark the fact that Poland and Lithuania were joining the Schengen area.
I would like to make an appeal: under no circumstances should a return to borders in Europe become a political tool or an attempt at a populist response to what may perhaps even be real problems.
Thank you, Mrs Ashton, for saying that our position on Hamas has not changed.
The problem is, unfortunately, that the position of the Palestinians and of President Abbas on Hamas has changed.
Sure, Member States often lack the political will to act in a unified and decisive way, and they do not want to see you strong, but believe me, Baroness Ashton, they will not support you and will not save your life as High Representative.
You should set out in front your opinions, your decisions, and then let Member States react.
For example, the review of the Göteborg Programme on Conflict Prevention: ten years ago, it was initiated by Anna Lindh.
Dozens of journalists are in gaol in Turkey and it still has 40 000 troops occupying half of Cyprus and violating the rights of Turkish and Greek Cypriots.
This is where I call on Baroness Ashton to see promptly in Cyprus what we saw too late in the Arabian Peninsula. (IT) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks on Coptic churches in Egypt and the killing of Christians are signs that religious intolerance is worsening, betraying the spirit of unity shown in Tahrir Square, where Copts and Muslims demonstrated together against the regime.
Coexistence and social stability are essential for an orderly transition to democracy, but they are made impossible by this lack of tolerance.
For many years, we have given our support to despotic regimes and dictatorships in the Arab world.
In particular, the helplessness of the European Union in the face of all the developments in the area of the southern Mediterranean gives cause for concern.
At best, the situation can be described as chaotic, with the transitional government about to be overthrown again.
Egypt has what seems to be a permanent or temporary military dictatorship which is persecuting the Coptic Christians.
The first Syrian refugees who are arriving in Turkey may be the vanguard of a major influx of people fleeing the conflict.
As a result of the current situation in Syria and Libya, we in Europe and in Brussels urgently need to develop an autonomous policy which is not dependent on or influenced by Washington.
Examples such as the Copenhagen climate change summit, the United Nations General Assembly resolution on enhancement of participation rights - congratulations to Baroness Ashton - or EU participation in the International Monetary Fund show the necessity not only of addressing these issues, but also of finding a common strategy.
What we urgently need is a long-term strategy clearly defining the steps and actions we need to take in order to consolidate our place on the global scene.
I hope that such a strategy will be proposed soon by Baroness Ashton and that we will have an opportunity to discuss it here in Parliament.
The citizens of Albania - I am not speaking about the politicians but about the ordinary people - look at us - the EU - with trust and hope.
They hope we will help them to find a solution to the very difficult political situation into which politicians have led their country.
In this report and, of course, in this debate as well, we have rightly focused primarily on southern areas and on the Middle East.
We need the recognition of Israel, we need peace in the region and we need a renunciation of the use of violence. (Applause) That is extremely important.
Turkey must also be our partner, in particular, with regard to the situation in the Mediterranean.
However, it is also important for us to strengthen our contacts with Turkey when it comes to the Black Sea region and to include Turkey in our common European foreign and security policy.
Although I am very much in favour of this partnership, which must be a strategic partnership, I am very surprised by the pressure that Russia is now exerting, in particular, in Ukraine.
Therefore, we must make it clear to Russia that we want a partnership based on equality and on common interests.
What you have said today is absolutely right.
Of course there is a great need for humanitarian assistance and the EU could play a useful role, but not in a way that merely seeks to promote a misplaced military ambition.
I find totally unacceptable the idea that the United Kingdom and France should indeed give over their United Nations Security Council seat in order to enable the EU to sit at the Security Council table.
I think that is essential, and all of us here in this House share that view with you, so I hope this will be successful.
You will have more support here from us if you tell us more about what is going on in the Council.
What we want is very concrete: conflict prevention and civilian crisis management, Lady Ashton.
What took place was a killing, and I personally would have preferred it if the United States had apprehended him and taken him to court.
It accepts the 1967 borders and the Quartet's conditions, including the rejection of violence.
The unity between Hamas and Fatah really is an historical step forward.
Of course, the world is changing; the European Union is being called upon to face huge challenges and it needs to take serious action in order to do so.
He asked you from whom you actually take your orders and which of the 27 nations you can actually speak about - and I think those questions have resonated in the Chamber today.
My words of support - and I was relieved to read in the Sunday papers that you denied you would be quitting your post - are these: as someone who is very critical of a common EU policy and of the EU taking sovereignty from my country, I wish you to stay in post for as long as possible because, while you are there, I do not think we are going to have much problem with loss of sovereignty.
After all, when you were the leader of the UK House of Lords, and you pushed through the Lisbon Treaty, which created your GBP 313 000-a-year job, you actually said, over and over again, that this was just a tidying-up exercise and not a significant transfer of sovereignty.
So there is no point asking you questions, because can we get an honest answer? (ES) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the central factor in this overly broad debate should be the situation in North Africa and the Near East.
We must approach this debate without extolling virtues - Baroness Ashton has rightly highlighted some positive elements; I would emphasise the good or, rather, the better provision of information between Parliament and the European External Action Service - yet also without concealing defects, and a voice as sensible as that of Giorgio Napolitano, our former fellow Member and President of the Italian Republic, has reminded us of this recently.
Nevertheless, you will encounter, both in this Chamber and among the European Union's citizens, harsh criticism of our ability to demonstrate a single approach and joint actions.
The Treaty of Lisbon created important conditions enabling the European Union to speak with one voice on the international stage.
I think, Lady Ashton, that our institution - the European Parliament - is your natural ally in the battle involved in implementing the Treaty of Lisbon.
Use us as much as you can because we are writing today the next report for the common foreign and security policy and because the exceptional dynamic activity going on in 2011 gives us a chance to put our own house in order.
I fully endorse the assessment that our support for the countries in North Africa, particularly for Tunisia and Egypt, must be provided in two stages.
Finally, I want to say that the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly was created last week.
I would like to highlight four priorities for the security and defence policy which we should follow up over the course of the next year.
The paper produced by Mr Solana in 2003 was a positive contribution at the time.
If we, by which I mean you, Baroness Ashton, and this Parliament, can succeed in making progress with the common security and defence policy in these four areas, in a year's time, we will be very happy with what we have achieved. (FI) Madam President, I would also like to greet Baroness Ashton, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, who honours us today with her presence.
This is my first speech, and I would therefore like to greet all my fellow Members in the European Parliament.
For precisely this reason, we must do all we can in order to launch the service as soon as possible.
Regrettably, in the area of external relations, the country currently holding the Presidency cannot shape a programme for foreign affairs, common defence or security, and thus, my fellow Members, you have no other choice than to support Mrs Ashton's work, which is starting with great difficulty. (DE) Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, you have our support for the ongoing development of the European External Action Service (EEAS) and for ensuring that it functions effectively, Baroness Ashton.
However, despite this behaviour, we must ensure that our common strategy is made clear.
We must make use of the positions, in actual fact, there are three of them, which have been brought together in the Treaty of Lisbon and which you represent, not to find and then to implement the lowest common denominator among the Member States, but instead to take over political leadership, so that the common position is given a greater role and is so convincing that we can carry the other countries along with us.
Those are the three things that we should have.
We need to take a sensible approach in order to identify a common position.
Whatever people in this Chamber, or anyone else in the European Union, think about our common foreign and security policy, this is the most outstanding objective endorsement of the ambition that you and we have for the Lisbon Treaty, a foreign policy that has real trust and respect from our foreign partners.
We back Mr Albertini in saying that the EU must act, as well as speak, in the face of human rights violations.
On behalf of my group, I also want to record our support on the issue of returning tax revenues to the Palestinians.
This is our annual debate on foreign policy, and in the next year, we hope to see clear outcomes to the human rights review and significant steps to developing a human rights culture in everything that the European External Action Service does. (FI) Madam President, the events in North Africa have once again shown that the EU's common foreign policy is behind the times and ineffective.
The EU's calls for a respect for human rights and democracy mainly look like a delusional Don Quixote in rusty armour battling with windmills, when compared to the lucrative arms trade engaged in by the Member States of the EU.
Seven of the world's ten biggest sellers of weapons are EU countries, EU Member States, and weapons have been sold to Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, Bahrain and Yemen.
It requires the involvement of the UN, the US and the EU and needs your active encouragement to achieve the resettlement of the 3 400 refugees from Ashraf to the US, Canada, Australia, Norway, Switzerland and the EU Member States, or wherever they have family or other connections.
The Libyan no-fly zone illustrates the difference.
In contrast, the supranational EU vigorously opposed David Cameron's proposal for a no-fly zone.
Baroness Ashton, at the end of our joint debate, we shall vote on the report on the European Union's role in multilateral organisations.
Two years ago, at the hearing that preceded your taking office, I asked you what your position was on the European Union having a single seat in the United Nations.
You replied on that occasion that you had not had time to think about it.
Baroness Ashton, 17 May is Europe-Iraq Day in Baghdad.
Baroness Ashton, you have already intervened on the subject of the Egyptian Copts; however, not only has the persecution continued, but today, it is a worrying element in the so-called 'Arab Spring'.
Baroness Ashton, you have an important role; please fulfil it to the utmost, in the knowledge that the time available is quickly running out. (SL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, you embody the political ambitions of the European Union through the common foreign and security policy.
Appointing a head would put a stop to that. (PL) Mr President, Europe is today facing two problems.
I know it is difficult for you to carry out your work, Mrs Ashton, because you are on your own and it was not you who decided this - this is how the EEAS was set up - but the impression is being given that in the autumn, we thought Belarus was the most important issue, while today - a little like children who have become interested in something else - we are looking at North Africa.
We should be using real and hard instruments to change things in Libya, Syria, Camp Ashraf and Belarus.
It is the wrong approach.
It is not only in the political and security interests of the EU but, above all, also our moral duty to provide broad assistance to our Arab friends in their struggle for emancipation, because the values they are fighting for are also our values, and the successful fulfilment and application of these values is also a fundamental precondition for lasting peace, stability, development and prosperity.
Broad assistance should not mean interference, however, because the development of civil society, democracy and the rule of law must, in my opinion, remain in Arab and Muslim hands.
These challenges are very real.
There is suppression, war and violence against religious minorities, refugees are flooding towards us and too slow a start has been made in establishing the rule of law and democracy.
Baroness Ashton, you are our figurehead, the figurehead of the European Union.
We cannot allow ourselves, the European Union, to be left behind in discord and indecision.
You have a crucial role to play, both formally and informally, not just behind the scenes, but also in the meeting rooms and, in particular, beyond them.
I am aware, I do realise, that you have to tread on eggshells, but you should know that we, the European Parliament, support you as you push on to convince the Member States that a joint European approach is worthwhile, push on to achieve an effective, coherent and common foreign policy and to be the face of that policy, push on in order to get the best people in the best positions in the External Action Service and push on in order to strengthen Europe's position and that of its citizens, who are the important thing.
Do more, therefore.
However, if the Council is not up to the job, when national selfishness and personal strategies prevail in decision making, then Europe and the European ideal have lost yet another battle. (DE) Mr President, I share the opinion of my fellow Members with regard to the unfortunate and inconsistent approach taken by individual governments to the challenges currently facing us.
The financial crisis and the debt crisis have, to a certain extent, had a beneficial impact by creating a greater sense of cooperation, in particular, as far as the common foreign and security policy is concerned.
On 8 April, the EU Military Staff submitted 300 projects from the Member States in this area.
Firstly, unlike the situation on other issues, European public opinion is 65-70% in favour of a common foreign and security policy.
I am also celebrating, Baroness Ashton, the fact that the European Union's voice in the United Nations General Assembly was finally strengthened in New York last week as the result of a vote that received widespread support.
I congratulate you on that, given that last year's disaster raised worrying questions about the future role of the Union in the world and in international organisations.
However, the divergent European votes on Resolution 1973 of the United Nations Security Council highlight the enormous difficulties - I stress, enormous difficulties - involved in achieving an effective common security and defence policy.
The new Member States are able to support the West in North Africa in a unique way because the West does not have the necessary credibility.
It is also true that the Member States bear a great deal of responsibility for this inability to come up with a coherent, effective and visible policy on this matter, while our US friends relied heavily on Europe to act.
The Libyan crisis aside, however, we must be mindful of the major strategic developments that mean that we must not give up on the ambition of a common security and defence policy, as enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, and which you, Baroness Ashton, must continue to inspire, support and speak up for.
Neither the United States nor NATO was able to end the 2008 conflict between Georgia and Russia, for example, and nor can the United States or NATO observe the current ceasefire there.
It is the European mission that has full legitimacy.
We can clearly see in Libya that the United States did not want to be in the front line and that NATO's minimum undertaking is insufficient.
I believe that the European Union's own military capabilities will also provide assistance to our US and NATO allies, both in a political and military sense, especially with regard to our close neighbours.
I support the pooling and sharing of our defence resources and the integration of our security and defence policy.
However, having an effective European foreign policy and our own defensive capabilities without having our own intelligence service and a facility for gathering information is like having a house without a roof.
Either Member States need to exchange information more efficiently with the external service and the European Union, or the European Union needs to have its own information and analysis channels.
The world expects the European Union to play a stronger role, not to have 27 individual foreign policies.
To conclude, I would emphasise three matters: first: we urgently need to break the deadlock in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a new outbreak of violence is possible; second: we urgently need to find a way to a unified and strategic relationship with Turkey, of which there has hardly been any mention today; third: I am pleased to see your determination with regard to Camp Ashraf; our voice in opposition to violence against civilians must be clear and decisive there and everywhere else in the world. (ES) Mr President, on 29 July 2009, Iraqi troops violently stormed the Iranian refugee camp in Ashraf and shot or beat to death 11 people living there.
So, Baroness Ashton, what diplomatic options do you have in mind in order to avoid such a disaster? (SV) Mr President, as I only have one minute, I will be very brief.
Two of my fellow Members have already mentioned the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh and the fact that the situation there is getting more complicated.
Baroness Ashton, Bashar al-Assad should not just top the list of those subject to EU sanctions but should be put on the list of criminals to be tried by the ICC or European courts for the brutal repression of the Syrian people.
In Libya, besides the office in Benghazi, the EU should have already employed EUFOR, not just to support humanitarian assistance to the people under attack as in Misrata, but to implement the arms embargo via sea or land borders as recommended by this Parliament.
If you take the initiative, Lady Ashton, and confront EU governments with their responsibilities, this Parliament will strongly back you.
Finally, as Palestinian reconciliation is a major step ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, while unrest in the Middle East and North Africa requires the European Union to play a greater role in the Mediterranean region, I would like to raise the point of the second flotilla to Gaza.
We all remember the outcome of the first flotilla and its consequences for talks and attempts to resume the peace process in the Middle East.
As you mentioned, Madam Vice-President/High Representative, you doubt that a new initiative of this kind would end in a more positive way.
You have also heard the many questions by colleagues about who and which Member States are blocking our common efforts.
I am sure this would be the best way to boost our common efforts for a truly common foreign and security policy. (NL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, there is a major threat in the Middle East.
The Christian community in Iraq has already been more than halved.
We are now seeing the same thing happening in Egypt.
Last February, I received 60 Copts here and they called out for help.
I therefore have two requests of you, Baroness Ashton.
Secondly, on 20 January, we asked, in this House, for an EU strategy for freedom of religion and the permanent monitoring of such a policy.
Thank you for your patience. (PT) Mr President, the foreign, security and defence policies of the European Union are principally policies in defence of the economic and geostrategic interests of the European powers.
Increasingly, they are aligned with the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), and relegate cooperation and development aid to second place.
Consequently, some of the key questions arising from this debate are whether policies on the arms trade will finally be changed, and what exactly is going to be done to put an end to the expansionist and warmongering policies of Israel ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, it is clear to us all that we cannot expect you to set up extensive security operations in crisis areas throughout the world in the short time that has elapsed since the creation of your office.
One of the problems directly affecting the EU and where there is a need to look for a solution through sensitive round-table negotiations is the occupation of EU territory by the Turkish army in Cyprus.
Turkey is a privileged partner of the EU and, on the outside, declares a definite interest in becoming a full member of our European group.
To make it the role of a supranational authority ignores or devalues the vital question of relations between Member States, or is, in fact, an admission that they are no longer sovereign states.
Bring the population of the Third World to Europe ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Baroness Ashton for the report she has put before us today.
However, I should like to point out to her that public opinion in Europe is unfortunately not aware of the European Union's presence.
As many of my fellow Members have also mentioned, our external policy is still in a rudimentary state, as can be seen from certain events that have happened in recent days.
Europe cannot remain absent from Camp Ashraf: it is a camp where not only international policy is measured but also human rights protection.
This country is in a really very serious situation, in which human rights and the chance to oppose a dictatorial government must get the European Union interested ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, only one remark: I think Ankara's increasingly active foreign policy poses new challenges and opportunities for European foreign policy.
Madam High Representative, I think that it is necessary to establish an institutionalised dialogue on key strategic issues such as energy policy, stability in the Western Balkans and the Caucasus regions, Iran's nuclear dossier or the democratic awakening under way in the Middle East.
Turkey, in particular, can play a constructive role in helping the EU consolidate the gains of the recent democratic awakening in the Middle East.
Now that I have two minutes, I would like to ask to be allowed to use four minutes for my final speech.
Mr Albertini, you have four minutes for your two speeches.
Many thanks, Mr Albertini.
For my part, I think this has been a useful and important debate, which shows how united Parliament is and how ready it is to offer its support for consistent and effective external action by Europe.
We have not only heard recriminations for the obvious limitations shown by Europe in recent events, but we have also heard proposals offering a kind of strategic partnership between Parliament and the other institutions in order to make Europe a credible actor in security and defence matters.
I believe this partnership would be not only an opportunity but a necessity as well because, if what we have been saying is true, which is that Europe's integrated approach is its main potential, achieving that integrated approach will require the support of a body endowed with clear legislative and budgetary powers.
For that reason as well, I think we should find a balanced solution to the matter of interparliamentary cooperation.
We must first of all assess the possibilities offered by the Treaty: by permanent structured cooperation and by Article 44, which makes it possible to delegate the task of carrying out a mission to particular Member States, but within an EU procedural framework, which is not the same thing as renationalisation.
We would like to thank Baroness Ashton for her commitment and for the important statements she has made.
It is an attractive thought, as she said, that a small group can do great things, but Europe is a great civilised power which cannot shirk its responsibilities.
Mr Albertini, please accept my apologies.
He said that, when Henry Kissinger was criticised for the United States' isolationist stance, particularly in relation to the European Union, he replied 'There is no fellow foreign minister nor a phone number I can call to speak to Europe'.
There is a democratic opposition in Iran, represented by the Green Movement, by various political groups within the Green Movement, and the condemnation of human rights violations should in no way be confused with political support for this group.
In addition, I ask the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative that, when she launches or opens this investigation into the situation in Camp Ashraf, that she also investigate the human rights abuses being committed against the population by the Mujahedin, which have been witnessed and documented by organisations such as Human Rights Watch.
In relation to my report, Baroness Ashton, I would particularly like you to take note of paragraph 6, which calls for the drafting of a White Paper with a strategic focus on the European Union's role in international organisations through to 2020.
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I should like to thank honourable Members for what has been a full-ranging debate.
Mr Albertini, I am happy to stand anywhere as long as it is actually in the room - I suspect there may be a few people who would prefer it if I was not - and I am very happy to speak from the podium; it is the obvious place between the two.
I do appreciate very much the work that you, Mr Albertini, and the other rapporteurs have done in producing what I think are really useful and helpful reports in terms of addressing the breadth of European action.
We do have strong united foreign policy positions on a whole range of issues, from the breadth of our concerns on human rights to the specific work that we are doing on the Middle East, in our neighbourhood, on Serbia/Kosovo, on Bosnia, or in our approach in Africa, where we now look at the situation hopefully beginning to be resolved in Cote d'Ivoire but worrying today in Uganda.
All of these positions are worked out with the 27 Foreign Affairs Council ministers and I have to pay tribute to them.
There is a lot more to do - I do not dispute that - and there is a lot more that you would wish us to do; but do not let us underestimate what we have already managed to achieve and the journey that we are on to do that.
Today, we have Foreign Ministers in different parts of the world carrying messages on behalf of myself, on behalf of the European Union.
Then there are the events in Nagorno-Karabakh between Azerbaijan and Armenia, where we have been in discussion with both, and where we are looking to support what France is doing in terms of trying to drive forward the process there.
In Albania, we have been in discussions with the Prime Minister and with the opposition to try to get the dialogue moving.
So, honourable Members, I would just say to you it is important to recognise that.
I did not oppose a no-fly zone in the European Council and Prime Minister Cameron will back that up; that is not at all what I said.
But let us not play this off against what happens in other countries like the Bahamas.
The staff in the Bahamas are development staff from the Commission working on rural programmes, on agriculture, for some of the poorest people, and we should not, in my view, see this as being an 'either/or' situation.
So I end as I began by saying that we do not lack ambition, we need the resources to do the job properly, we need to be able to be consistent, we need to develop and strengthen what we do, and that is what we will do, but we will do it by taking the 27 Members of the European Union on that journey with us, leading sometimes, pushing sometimes, working alongside sometimes, and your support will be invaluable to that. (Applause) The debate is closed.
These two initiatives play a vital role both in strengthening relations with the states in the immediate vicinity and in terms of energy security.
Mentioning this point will ensure positive progress in the negotiations between both sides.
I would like to emphasise in this Chamber the importance attached to settling unresolved conflicts, particularly the one in Transnistria.
Now, following the unexpected reconciliation agreement between Fatah and Hamas, which commits to establishing a technical, non-party interim government and early elections, Europe must grab this opportunity to play a positive role in the region.
The fact that the organisers of last year's flotilla are planning to repeat their action on the anniversary of the incident and MEPs from the GUE and Greens/EFA political groups organised a hearing at the EP on 10 May put the issue yet again in the spotlight.
If we Europeans consider peace, democratisation in the Middle East, the eradication of extreme poverty and the development of living conditions in Gaza as our ultimate goal, the appropriate means for the facilitation of this noble cause is not the flotilla, as VP/HR Ashton pointed out earlier today.
I ask fellow MEPs to refrain from exploiting the Middle East crisis for their own political goals, which do not have anything to do with the peace process and from a biased attitude which very much sounds like the language and mechanism of the Communist and Soviet attitude towards Israel.
The motion for a resolution shows clearly that there are still serious shortcomings over fulfilment of the relevant provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
If there was a European foreign policy strategy already today, the equilibrium of the EU in that regard would be much better, for example, concerning the movements in the Arab world and the double or even triple standards applied towards the countries from this region.
The ideas of Valentin Inzko, High Representative of the international community and EU Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, regarding the approach towards Serbia will not resolve the situation, but will rather do the opposite.
After lengthy negotiations, we finally managed to convince our partners from the United Nations to grant the EU a new status in the organisation.
However, we must not fall into the trap of triumphalism and think that from now on, the EU will present a uniform standpoint in the forum of the United Nations.
The example of Libya shows how deep the divisions between us are even in matters which would seem obvious, such as the protection of the civilian population.
So we need to say clearly that without the political will from Member States, this decision will be meaningless.
This is why I cannot agree with Mrs Ashton that the world will hear one, clear voice from the EU.
I would like to remind you, Baroness Ashton, of Joseph Daul's advice: do not be afraid, and you will have the support of this Parliament.
I thank you for your condemnation of the massacre in Camp Ashraf on 8 April 2011.
I strongly suggest that, in this case, you follow the clear message of the European Parliament from April 2009: we need a clear and convincing message that the EU really cares about the lives of 34 unarmed members of the Iranian opposition and will no longer tolerate the brutal crushing of their liberties and dignity.
The common foreign and security policy is always a major problem in the EU.
On the one hand, the large states are traditionally used to relying on their own forces, with France and Great Britain in particular still feeling they are great powers.
Instead of military ventures, the latest of which is unfolding before us in Libya, what today's world needs is to put all of its efforts into fighting poverty and illiteracy, and into solving other serious problems.
Assistance in mitigating the consequences of disasters should be an important element in EU foreign policy.
Police deployment is possible only in extreme cases, on the basis of a UN resolution, and in order to protect workers in the social, health and public service sectors, and to train the police.
The common foreign and security policy must be rigorously separated from NATO.
Baroness Ashton, the European Union must be ambitious.
We are still committed to the one-China policy, while Beijing has recently become more suppressive and violent both in Tibet and the Uyghur region.
However, the repressive measures carried out by the Assad regime are intensifying and have already resulted, based on the figures supplied by the NGOs, in the murder of 600-700 civilians and the arrest or disappearance of another 8 000 people.
However, we need to do more, in cooperation with the Union's partners, to urge the Syrian authorities to halt the repression.
Assad is isolated.
Only the Gaddafi regime is condemning at the moment 'the international conspiracy attacking Syria's national security', a statement which says a great deal about the situation in Syria.
The new Egyptian authorities benefited from widespread sympathy and direct EU financial and political support.
This unequivocal warning should condition all present agreements and should be included in all future agreements with Middle East governments.
During the January debate on the situation in Tunisia and Egypt and the freedom of religious expression, I mentioned the tragic situation of Christians in Arab countries, particularly the Egyptian Coptic Christians, who are being persecuted.
As we can see, the European Union still cannot work out a cohesive reactive strategy towards human rights violations in Asia and North Africa and how to prevent them in the future.
