A new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe (debate) The first item is the report by Mr Garriga Polledo, on behalf of the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013, on Investing in the future: a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe.
There has also been institutional cooperation from the College of Commissioners, headed by José Manuel Durão Barroso, with the Commissioner for Financial Programming and Budget, Janusz Lewandowski, having provided particular support.
We hope that the proposal they put forward on 29 June will be in line with the recommendations made in our report.
This is the message that Mr Barroso, speaking on behalf of the European Commission, has been sending the Member States for months.
It has changed, and it would be irresponsible not to reflect these changes in the ways in which Europe is funded, in other words, in the way Europe is designed. (The speaker broke off, hoping to continue his speech later) Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank Mr Garriga and the members of the temporary Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 because I believe they have done an excellent job.
We have the Europe envisaged by David Cameron or the Dutch Government - or at least by the party that supports the government in the Dutch Chamber of Deputies - a Europe of ever deeper cuts, a Europe of increasing withdrawal from integrationist development and a Europe of renationalisation.
There are two options open to us: we can split ourselves into our constituent parts, ranging in size from Germany, with a population of 82 million, to Malta with a population of 360 000.
After all, even a state with 82 million people, such as the one I represent, will not survive intercontinental competition in the long term.
That is what will make us strong.
You cannot say 'We want a Marshall plan for the Mediterranean that will support the development of democracies in North Africa', while, at the same time, saying 'We should cut the EU budget'.
However, then we also need a good, well-balanced, rationally developed, long-term budget as set out in this report. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (NL) Mr President, given his extremely negative reactions to the position of the Dutch Government, I would like to ask my esteemed fellow Member whether he still recognises at all the democratic right of EU Member States to voice their own opinions on behalf of their citizens. (DE) Mr Hartong, of course I recognise this right.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I have here the letter from the representative of Her Majesty's Government on the SURE report.
I have to tell you that beyond the three or four words saying that Her Majesty's Government is disappointed by the report, the other parts of the letter are a real provocation: a provocation to Europe and the European Union, because their main point is that no increase in the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) is possible, and that we have to stick to the old MFF, the same figures, the same resources, naturally the same rebates, and certainly the same rebate for the UK.
Her Majesty's Government is nevertheless a government that wants to take decisions, that wants to reform not only the UK but also the European Union.
I think that the time is now ripe to say to the public that it is not by cutting this EU budget of 1% [EU GDP] that we will solve the fiscal consolidation of the different Member States of the European Union.
If the British Government wants to make savings, it can join the euro, it can give the European Union more powers and responsibilities, and it can make savings with regard to all those people working on monetary policy in Britain.
We want own resources in order to reduce pressure on national budgets.
Between 20 and 30 cents of one euro of national spending are immediately diverted to repay interest on the national debt.
The truth is that without European funding for research and innovation, our countries would be less competitive globally, while growth and employment would languish.
The truth is that without European cohesion funding, the gap between rich and poor regions would widen.
The truth is that without European funding, food security policy, energy policy and climate change policy would be unable to match our expectations and aims.
As young people express their anxieties on the streets of Athens and Madrid, as 500 million Europeans are wondering what their future holds, it is time to ask the right questions and to come up with responses to the issues that we face.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, if I may take this opportunity, speaking on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, I want to respond to Mr Verhofstadt who, as ever, has missed the point and who, as ever, is facing in the wrong direction.
In the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013, we rightly talked about priorities, but then we never acted on it.
So we accept that there should be increased expenditure on the new priorities but we also think it was time we looked again at the traditional priorities, so here again, it was another missed opportunity for the European budget. (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) Mr President, I would like to ask my colleague if he does not accept that transferring from the national to the European budget some key items of expenditure is going to produce cost efficiencies and economies of scale and save national treasuries money.
However, a forward-looking budget also means shifts in priorities and still more European money.
The third priority concerns the EU's own resources.
That is a vision of the added value of Europe and that is why we need a European budget.
We have the 2020 objectives for a smart economy, a sustainable economy.
We must therefore invest in that.
The third priority concerns the EU's own resources.
Mr President, Mr Garriga Polledo, you will understand that the Left has particularly high expectations in relation to the social alignment of the EU and is therefore a little disappointed that your report does not give greater priority to social aspects for the coming years.
However, I do not believe that the proposed tentative increase of 5% will be enough to meet these challenges.
In particular, the introduction of a financial transaction tax is an issue that we must finally take in hand.
This is not just a useful financial instrument, but also offers greater transparency in relation to how the EU is financed.
The European External Action Service costs an extra 500 million each year and has not yet demonstrated its raison d'être.
This Parliament claims that the EU is adding more value at international level than the sum of individual Member States.
Europe is so wonderful and so powerful because of its Member States, and so by working together, in close consultation, the Member States are able to speak with a strong voice on the global political stage.
Yes, we also say that the European budget is not about the duplication of national budgets, but about delivering common goals beyond the capacity of nation states where European funds can realise economies of scale or create synergies.
The European budget should assume new functions as a toolbox for disciplining the Member States' public finances, but it cannot be blamed for mismanagement of public finances at national level.
Therefore, the package to be presented at the end of June is about figures, the Multiannual Framework Regulation, a new proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, but also about own resources.
We will see the European Commission project at the end of this month, when it will be also be presented in Parliament. (In response to a voice from the floor:) I am sorry but we do not put blue-card questions to our guests, they are put only to Members of the European Parliament.
With these choices, the European Union remains the most important partner for developing countries in the world and that is vital.
However, at the same time, it must be said that all regions must have access to cohesion policy, both Eastern European Member States and strong national economies like Germany.
We have reached a compromise in the Committee on Regional Development and I would recommend that this House should incorporate the compromise found by the specialist politicians in the Garriga Report.
Mr President, whenever we talk about the European Union budget and European funds, especially about the future Multiannual Financial Framework, we automatically talk about European added value.
I do not think that there is an area or segment in the European Union budget where European added value is bigger, with so little money.
By the way, let us bring an end to all of these extraordinary targeted rebates.
This debate should be conducted jointly with our colleagues in the national parliaments without prejudice and with less foaming at the mouth than is evident in some capital cities and commentaries.
We must discuss European added value and the necessary synergies between the national budgets and the EU budget in greater detail than before because, irrespective of the potential savings to be achieved in the EU budget, a lot of the additional resources required can be discussed in the context of a genuine debate on synergy and potential savings between the EU budget and the national budgets.
Mr President, the EU is currently facing the biggest challenges that it has faced in a very long time.
In the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013, we understand that it can seem strange that, at a time when many Member States are making cuts in their own budgets, we are demanding more money for the EU budget post 2013.
However, at the same time, it would be completely unreasonable to ignore these challenges, to give in to euroscepticism and give up the political ambitions that the Member States have given us in the Treaty of Lisbon, for example.
Now, I am talking about unjustified advantages within agricultural policy as well as the fact that our anti-corruption policy is, to a large degree, not as successful as we always claim it is, and the fact that, to a certain extent, the EU's administration is rather unwieldy - the very fact that we are here in Strasbourg is an example of this.
The predominance of the Europe 2020 agenda may mean that EU policies are reformed at the expense of much more important obligations - those enshrined in the Treaties, which refer to the promotion of economic cohesion between Member States.
That is why I believe Mr Verhofstadt is right when he says that we must, of course, be prepared to take up joint initiatives such as the establishment of the European External Action Service, while at the same time making savings at national level.
If we in Europe fall back into a pattern of following political national self-interest, then we risk destroying 50 years of work on the European project.
The possibility of a marginal 5% increase in European budgets only seems a lot to Her Majesty, the Queen of England.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, much has been said and I would like to add a different note to this meeting.
Mr President, I am very pleased as an MEP that I am living at this moment. (DE) Mr President, the Committee on Budgets has been working intensively on the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for some time now and the report from my fellow Member is an important contribution to this.
It is completely understandable that our citizens should lose their personal orientation against the background of the impact of the structural crisis and the ever-increasing demands of globalisation, inevitably leading them to question the European project as a whole.
Thirdly: in addition, we welcome the fact that the Europe 2020 strategy is to be the reference point for the forthcoming MFF, which also entails consideration of the timeframe. (PL) Mr President, anyone not in the know might come to the conclusion that the European Parliament is behaving irresponsibly by proposing a budgetary increase.
I would like to state quite clearly that the work of the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013 has, above all, been very matter-of-fact and business-like, and extremely realistic.
We must remember that the Member States, including those which have published letters, agreed to the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
What matters most is that negotiations are opened, and Parliament is ready for this. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the plenary agreed and mandated a special committee to draft the position of the European Parliament in relation to the next financial perspective.
For that, let me express my sincerest gratitude to those Members involved in the creative process.
However, as we all know, good results require not just hard-working Members, but also excellent staff.
We certainly had this, not just in the shape of our personal assistants and our group staff, but also, above all, in an excellent secretariat.
Our call for a seven-year financial perspective which is expressed in a structure that reflects the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, while, at the same time, respecting all the policies for the European Union and avoiding increasing the European budget to unrealistic levels, must be seen to be reasonable.
Our report contains 174 paragraphs, all of them arguments for more Europe.
It offers the best basis for convincing our citizens in local debate and for entering into serious negotiations with the Council, which is unfortunately notable by its absence today.
I would also like to thank the Commission for its very active role.
This work has actually enabled us to go through all parts of the EU budget and the various policy areas that we would like to see reflected in the budget.
I believe it is.
We have a grip on the EU budget.
We now have the 2020 strategy and we are trying to make a budgetary framework for it.
