EHEC outbreak in the EU Member States (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the EHEC outbreak in the EU Member States.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to thank all of you for this opportunity to inform you about developments in relation to the outbreak of E coli.
According to the latest information, this outbreak is responsible for 21 deaths in Germany and 1 in Sweden.
Sporadic cases are reported in 11 other Member States.
Switzerland has also reported 15 cases and the United States 4.
The epicentre of the disease is still the area around Hamburg in northern Germany.
On Sunday, 5 June, the experts started their mission to assist German authorities with the ongoing epidemiology, verify the results and contribute to the ongoing investigations to identify the source.
If we manage to do this, then we can learn from the lessons of this crisis and continually improve our systems.
We need to learn lessons as we go along.
We have to learn lessons on this front.
The Commission is working hand in hand with the Member States with one common goal: to bring this outbreak to an end as soon as possible.
Hundreds of people are severely ill.
Yesterday in the Council, a representative of another Member State, Luxembourg, said that financial losses could be recompensed, but human life cannot.
Of course, we still have to find the source.
I see that many people working for the authorities, with the support of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), too - my sincere thanks to the European institutions and to Commissioner Dalli for the fact that the European Union is also helping to investigate this matter - are really working very intensively on this.
Nevertheless, as a German Member of this House, I cannot stand here and say that everything is going well.
However, she informed the public first and only very much later, hours or half a day later, she informed the European Commission and the Spanish authorities.
However, together we should concentrate on the fact that the enemy is not in Spain or in Germany, but rather the real problem is the pathogen that we need to get under control and to combat.
I note that the Council is not here today, but the Council is resisting proper country of origin labelling on our foods.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for having first spoken about the victims and the people taken ill.
Secondly, I fully agree with what Mrs McAvan just said about the importance of traceability.
In this case, the precautionary principle must prevail.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, first of all, I would also like to express my sympathy to those who have been affected.
We can probably put the underlying situation right in the longer term, but it shows how wrong it is to jump to conclusions at a very early point.
I can understand the anger - if there is anger and I am sure there is - from the Spanish side and from those who have lost their business.
We have to find a resolution as quickly as possible to the present situation and, in the long term, we have got to improve our response mechanisms to this type of situation.
I suppose it is very easy with hindsight to talk about what could or should have been done or what we did not do, but now, with the benefit of that hindsight, we could put mechanisms in place to ensure that this never happens again.
You must always learn from the lessons of your mistakes.
Mr President, Commissioner, you rightly said that there have been too many deaths and too many people made sick as a result of this EHEC pathogen, and I think that the situation we find ourselves in also shows that neither Germany nor the European Union are prepared for the sort of spread of EHEC that we are currently seeing.
In Germany, on the other hand, we have two Federal Ministries that are responsible and these ministries clearly could not agree on who was to take responsibility.
We also have regional ministries that want to, and must, assume responsibility, but that are clearly overstretched.
There is something of a discrepancy between scientific findings and political action.
I am extremely grateful to Mr Liese for mentioning the antibiotics problem.
However, because we shy away from entering into a debate with the medical sector, the pharmaceuticals industry and the intensive livestock farming sector - there is a great deal to be addressed here - we are also not being as consistent as we need to be in the way we deal with the matter of antibiotics resistance.
Mr President, the EHEC epidemic is making apparent the flaws in the system of industrial food production in the liberalised Internal Market of the EU.
So far, at least 22 people have died in Germany as a result of the EHEC pathogen and there have been more than 1 500 cases of infection.
After more than two weeks, the source of this life-threatening epidemic is still unclear.
However, traceability with regard to the origin of the food is essential when it comes to food safety.
Consumers have a right to know how their food has been produced and where it comes from.
However, agricultural producers should also be protected against incalculable financial risks.
The policy for promoting agriculture and rural areas must consistently aim at a clear decentralisation of the food production and marketing structures. (ES) Mr President, I should like to briefly raise three points on the current situation concerning cucumbers.
I am the grandson of a German and feel deep affection for that country, but the German authorities have clearly acted hastily and rashly in this particular case.
Europe is the right stage for this purpose. (ES) Mr President, one can only express a deep sense of sorrow for the 23 fatalities: 22 in Germany and one in Sweden.
This crisis is clear evidence that the European Union has a long way to go in improving its food safety alert system and its internal coordination.
In the Council of Agriculture Ministers that will be held in Luxembourg at two o'clock this afternoon, the European Commission should propose that a portion of the EUR 2 500 million left over from the common agricultural policy be put to use.
Furthermore, the German authorities, in view of their reckless accusations, should definitely support this financial solution from the very beginning, and use funds of their own to conduct communication campaigns aimed at restoring consumer confidence in horticultural products, which is now in shatters. (PT) Mr President, the outbreak of infection in Germany has meant that we are facing one of the most difficult public health, crisis management situations in living memory.
The Commission and Germany, in particular, have not been managing this crisis in the best possible way.
Society expects a rapid response from the national and Union authorities that sheds light on the causes of this crisis, along with effective action.
The market garden sector is rightly demanding compensation and, as the Commissioner said, the Ministers and Commissioners concerned are due to meet on this subject this afternoon in Luxembourg.
We have to establish the source and cause of the outbreak, but we must also identify the source and cause of the false information about the outbreak which was spread in Europe and around the world - false and damaging information, which has done so much harm.
We need to look very closely at the causes of the outbreak and, in particular, at industrial animal husbandry, where antibiotics are used on a massive scale.
In my opinion, this intensive farming with the use of antibiotics should be greatly restricted in the European Union, and perhaps even stopped, and the damage which has been done should be repaired by those who caused it. (DE) Mr President, EHEC is not a new problem, but it is clear that Europe is still inadequately prepared for a crisis like this.
Consumer protection, we are all agreed, always takes absolute priority over financial interests.
In Germany, the responsibility lies with 16 federal states and two ministries, which is too finely distributed for a European crisis.
However, we also need a European reaction force to coordinate the scientific and medical work and to establish control plans. (Applause) (PT) Mr President, in view of the flurry of conflicting reports about the origin of this outbreak, it is important to bear some points in mind.
Firstly, I would like to point out that more than 15 days after the first cases had been reported and more than a month after the first instances of contamination had occurred, the European early warning and response units have still been unable to identify the real cause of the contamination.
Finally, it is important to compensate European producers for the damage that they are suffering, and not just those in the geographical area of the outbreak of infection.
It also costs our farmers a lot of money and dangerously undermines consumer confidence in our agricultural products and agri-food industry, which are still undoubtedly the safest and most strictly controlled in the world.
There are serious economic consequences for farmers.
The fact is, the alert system worked very well.
The problem is that the Commission has neither the resources nor the opportunity to check whether information given by a Member State is true or not.
Indeed, our sympathy goes out to all those who have died or are lying in a hospital bed.
There are several lessons we need to learn from this.
Firstly, we need to look for the source and examine whether improper practices are still present in the food production sector or in the food supply chain.
We have legislation that has been in place for 20 years, and the standards and codes of practices in the European Union are quite stringent, but it is clear that we are still vulnerable when it comes to foodstuffs.
There still seem to be gaps and shortcomings and we need to learn from this once again.
When any regional or national authority issues a warning for the whole of Europe, it can only be a disaster.
However, I would also like to make a special point about the way current events have been communicated to the general public by German and European authorities, with the serious consequences we know for the fruit and vegetable sector, not only in Spain, but in all our Union.
I propose that the Commission should help the German authorities to enhance the traceability and control of the German procedures, and similar measures should be taken concerning the procedures in other Member States.
All information should be available but this information should not be communicated in a way that means raising multiple alarms and triggering consumers' fears when evidence has not yet been found.
If our citizens are informed, they stand a better chance of avoiding infection.
Above all, we need to be calm and measured in our response. (EL) Mr President, for the second time in six months, Europe is facing a food crisis which has caused serious health problems for many people and has even resulted in loss of life among our fellow men.
In January, we had the problems of toxins in Germany; now we have bacteria problems, again in Germany.
The first case was covered up, even though it was known about for months; in the second case, the blame has been conveniently shifted to Spanish cucumbers.
The Commission's stand is marked by confusion, cover-up and panic and, as a result, we are mourning lives, we are mourning cases of illness and we are mourning the consequences to agricultural production. (IT) Mr President, the situation we are discussing is very serious, but I think in some cases, we are still confusing things at very different levels.
Yet we are doing just that: in an extremely serious situation, with a public health crisis and food safety at stake, we are pointing the finger at people who then turn out not to be guilty, thus causing further victims.
The Spanish growers have already taken to the streets and today, in about 40 minutes' time, direct growers in Italy, too, will be demonstrating in the streets in Milan and the province of Latina, offering consumers fresh cucumbers and other fruit and vegetables to show that they are healthy foods and important for a healthy, balanced diet.
I would also like to point out some data that should give the relevant authorities, in particular, cause for serious thought when they put out certain information that causes alarm, fear and panic.
I should like to ask the Commission, therefore, if it does not think there is a case for triggering the European emergency clause and bringing forward the discussion on financial compensation. (DE) Mr President, Mr Dalli, your colleagues in the Directorate-General for Health and Consumers and yourself have done everything right.
Furthermore, the fact that it took three days for these experts to get into Germany is a scandal, and one that we must be critical of in this House.
At the same time, however, we also have to say that it is our job, in the European Union, to warn consumers when there is a dangerous foodstuff on the market.
Relations between Germany and Spain are strained to say the least, and yet, three weeks into this crisis, we still have no idea of where the source of this contamination has come from.
It is only once we have the facts that we can take action to plug any gaps in food safety law. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, the health dimension of the crisis resulting from this outbreak of EHEC bacteria is absolutely tragic.
The situation is serious.
Growers of vegetables are being faced with these losses of income right in the middle of their peak harvesting season.
The uncoordinated way in which consumers have received information in the course of this event once again raises the demand for universal and cross-sector origin marking and efficient monitoring on the principle of 'marked and checked at source'.
The Commission must make it possible for there to be compensation for losses, be it through a European agricultural fund, the European crisis fund or measures to promote sales.
However, it is also absolutely our duty not to leave our producers high and dry when it is through no fault of their own that they have found themselves in this situation that threatens their very survival. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, we all want the German food crisis to end as quickly as possible.
However, apart from the health aspect of this crisis, I have to mention the economic repercussions.
The system exists to find the cause and deal with the consequences, but I am afraid that not all parts of the system have been adequately put in place, and I have some questions in relation to timing.
Commissioner Dalli, I know that you are nodding in agreement, and I welcome that, but I do believe that now is the time to set up the crisis unit, and I would like you to comment on that in your closing remarks. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I come from the region of Europe where the outbreak of the EHEC pathogen is at its raging worst.
Between mid-May and noon yesterday, 1 733 people were infected, while 23 patients died a torturous death.
The situation in the clinics is extremely fraught.
I am presuming that glaring errors have been made in this regard, and once again, we are finding out that there are loopholes.
In other words, all the medical experts must sit down together, and economic assistance needs to be provided to those who innocently find themselves facing financial disaster. (ES) Mr President, first of all, I wish to express my condolences to the relatives of those who have died as the result of this crisis.
I wonder when the first case occurred, and whether Article 3 of the regulation relating to the rapid alert system - which requires Member States to notify the risk immediately and within 48 hours - was met, and also whether Article 8 of said regulation - which obliges the Commission to check whether the information is complete, true and legible and has sufficient legal basis - was met.
The cause is serotype O104:H4 of the bacterium Escherichia coli, which is already described throughout scientific literature and is associated with meat products.
However, in any case, Commissioner, we have to allow the scientists to do their work: they need to investigate the entire traceability system, throughout the food chain, including the handling and distribution of food. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, nothing that we do here or in the European Union is going to bring the dead back to life, but I hope that what is being done will prevent more deaths and halt the chain of people who are ill and who are suffering without having done anything to cause the problem.
Certainly, we do not know the causes, but we do know some things that we have to spell out: there has been negligence in political action and negligence by the German Federal Government; it cannot act as if Hamburg were a city state on another continent.
A bit more humility, a bit more good management and a little less conservatism would have gone a long way to ensuring that this crisis did not slip through her hands, and that Spain and other farmers in the south did not have to suffer its painful consequences.
Review the controls, review the warning systems and ask for responsibility, because, Commissioner, in Spain we are asking you, the Council and Germany for precisely this. (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for being here, but I would rather he was somewhere else, such as on a plane to Russia, for example, in order to make the case at the highest possible level that the ban that Russia has now introduced should be withdrawn because it is completely over-the-top.
The Commissioner spoke about a possible source on Dutch cucumbers, even though more than 200 tests had already shown days earlier that that was not the case.
There is also the communications side of the whole issue, though, and that side has been abysmal, first of all in Germany, of course, with so many different institutes, authorities and even a number of ministers all giving out different signals.
In my home country alone, this sector is suffering to the tune of EUR 80 million a week even though the source of the outbreak is elsewhere, and the result is that healthy businesses are now on the verge of collapse.
I take it that you will take this strong signal from Parliament with you to the Agriculture Ministers' Council. (SK) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome this debate.
I think it is inadequate and irresponsible to inform citizens on a given day about which food they should not buy or which food looks suspicious.
It is necessary to inform citizens about what they should do in their everyday lives, and there should be one campaign here at both European Union and Member State level.
We extend expressions of sympathy to the families of the victims and to those who are ill, but let us remember to provide compensation to the farmers from a number of countries who have suffered losses.
Perhaps this difficult situation will make us aware of how important this area of issues and problems is, because it is one which concerns not just what our citizens eat, but the state of their health. (ES) Mr President, we are faced with a public health problem - an epidemic according to the Commissioner - and they have been looking for those culpable and not the cause.
The system has not worked: We have 22 dead, 1 600 affected and, three weeks later, we still do not know the cause and, using the precautionary principle without scientific basis - I repeat, without scientific basis - Spain is being blamed.
Moreover, so that you can see the impact that these words have had: 300 000 jobs may be affected; a loss of confidence.
Still, farmers are waiting for the compensation they deserve.
We must also urge calm in such a situation.
In the past, we in the UK have suffered as a result of such scaremongering around our produce, and this speculative blame game must stop.
Before it does so, we must have a full and thorough investigation of the facts. (ES) Mr President, the most important thing, and that which is uniting us here today, are the victims, because nobody should feel as unprotected as we, the European consumers, feel at the moment.
Therefore, and in the hope that the experts will soon find the solution, I demand that today, when the Commission speaks to the Council, it asks for immediate and moral economic measures for all the producers from Andalusia and from the whole of Europe, who are looking towards us with indignation, but also with hope. (ES) Mr President, instead of giving priority to the European investigation and cooperation, the German authorities have slandered and prejudiced cucumber producers and others.
There is the coordination problem in Germany - various German MEPs have also said this, both from the governing bloc and from the opposition - with the two federal ministries, the sixteen Länder and the lack of coordination.
There needs to be a strict national monitoring system, and it needs to be looked at how that operates both in Germany and also, above all, in the other 26 Member States.
At the moment, we are pointing our fingers at Germany, but perhaps it will soon be our own Member States we are pointing at.
We therefore need to ask whether the internal monitoring systems in all the Member States are strong enough.
The European systems that are in place - Mrs Roth-Behrendt was quite right - do work.
That should therefore be the focus of our attention.
Secondly, can you tell us what you will be doing at the agriculture Council and how you can compensate those farmers who have suffered damages? (ES) Mr President, it is precisely in situations of crisis that the efficiency of and confidence in institutions is seen.
What has also been confirmed is that the Commission must do what it has not done up to now, which is to act with conviction on various fronts: stop the outbreak; prevent unfounded suspicions from being given a glimmer of credibility, seriously affecting a Member State - in this case, Spain - by taking the necessary measures to achieve this; compensate the damage suffered without delay and restore to the Spanish brand its image of safe, very high quality agricultural products. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, we are in the middle of a crisis and, if truth be told, we have more important things to be doing at this point in time than pointing fingers and assigning blame.
When you are in the middle of a crisis, all you should be doing is making your decisions and solving the crisis before doing anything else.
The first priority is to find a treatment for patients for these antibiotic-resistant bacteria and to trace the source of the outbreak.
We can then turn our attention to the question of how our crisis management is actually going.
There are major differences between the Member States.
First of all, our sympathy, clearly, goes to the victims.
The well-being of the people must come first.
The fact is that there have been over 2 000 infections and more than 20 people have died.
Finally, I would like to observe that the Council was absent for the whole of the debate on this issue. (PL) Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak in such an important debate.
The citizens of the European Union need the European institutions to be effective in many areas, including in prevention of the spread of every kind of disease in every part of the European Union, and this is understandable.
This has resulted in losses running into millions, and Polish farmers have also been affected.
The price of vegetables on the Polish market fell by two thirds in the course of a week.
It is not right that the German authorities failed to defer, from the start, to the European Union in a tragedy that has transcended their borders ever since the end of their first press conference, when they wrongly blamed Spanish cucumbers.
The bond of trust between consumers and producers has once again been broken.
If we do not learn the lessons of this failure quickly, 23 people will have died for nothing.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank you and also all the Members who contributed to this debate.
Tomorrow, I will be in Berlin to participate in a coordination meeting between the food safety sector and the health sector, together with the experts we have in place there.
We set up the crisis unit on 30 May 2011 and, at Commission level, we were fully mobilised at that point.
My public health department mobilised the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the ECDC has activated its crisis mode in order to make scientific assessments as rapidly as possible.
The Commission immediately asked the ECDC to carry out a scientific assessment.
It is easy for all of us to sit in judgment with hindsight and to make statements, rather than being in the eye of the storm when a crisis is happening.
I think this aspect of situation management is very important.
If you remember, in 2009-2010, as a result of our H1N1 experience, we set up a system to coordinate public health communication, and our EU Health Security Committee has a network of communicators.
As recently as yesterday, I was on the phone with Margaret Chan, the Director-General of the WHO, about this aspect of coordinating information and ensuring full coordination before any communication takes place.
That may be part of the answer but, as you say, it is going to involve a lot of discussion both here in Parliament and also at Member State level.
On the issue of compensation, this will be discussed this afternoon in the AGRI Council, and I am sure that my colleague, Commissioner Cioloş, is doing his utmost to identify and develop ways and means of compensating our farmers who have been suffering as a result of this problem.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (HU) The latest German food safety scandal has directed our attention to the deficiencies of adequate regulatory supervision once again.
All these sad events call our attention time and again to the fact that the state must strengthen regulatory inspections, and act against all deficiencies or abuses in the strictest possible manner.
The absolute priority is consumer protection, but we need to correct our procedures.
Our concern is, first and foremost, for the victims of this epidemic and their surviving dependants.
This abominable situation must not be repeated; we need to learn the lessons from it quickly in order, in future, to be able to more quickly detect where the cause is and to communicate in a more efficient and more coordinated manner.
This area, communications and the poor consultation between the Member States in that regard, has been a pitiful failure.
As Commissioner Dalli said here this morning, this is not a national problem for Germany; it is a European problem.
With food safety in the EU in the news for the second time in six months, and with such a high death toll, this is not a food scandal; it is a food crisis.
The Commission should take permanent corrective measures, one of which is traceability and should be a priority objective.
However, the Commission must carry out its work on a wider scale and check whether all the control, analysis and research systems have been adhered to properly, because we must improve and strengthen our food alert mechanisms.
The information being received from vegetable producers is disturbing.
The European Commission yesterday proposed compensation of EUR 150 million for vegetable growers who suffered damages as a result of the intestinal infection in Germany.
European consumers have become used to having confidence in the food which they find on supermarket shelves precisely because European producers are obliged to comply with the highest quality standards in the world.
The new food epidemic illustrates that the EU neither can nor will protect human life and public health because, as a transnational union of monopolies, it has promised to serve and protect the profits of capital, not the lives of the workers.
In crises of this kind, it is of crucial importance, both for consumers and for foodstuff producers, that a European coordination cell be set up as quickly as possible to look after both communications and the coordination of the scientific investigation.
