Oral explanations of vote (SK) Madam President, I voted in favour of the resolution jointly submitted by the Group of European Socialists mainly for the reason that little has changed in terms of the importance and topicality of the resolution, even though certain changes have occurred in Hungary between the drafting of the resolution and today's vote on it.
We are insistent that, after the Hungarian Government and Parliament had dealt with these three areas in a relatively acceptable way, the Commission should have continued by closely monitoring the compliance of the Hungarian media law with European legislation - specifically, the Charter of Fundamental Rights in particular.
We would also like to call on the Hungarian authorities, in future amendments to the law, to engage to a greater degree with the parties involved, including civil society, because that is the only way a law can be drawn up in a truly democratic country.
In this way, the contributions and recommendations will surely be stimulating, whether ours - those of the European Parliament, the Commission, or the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe - or those of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. (FI) Madam President, surely all those in this House who endorse the principles of the European Union think that freedom of the media is very important.
I nevertheless voted against this proposal.
In this respect, I am of the opinion that this should not be made a political issue in this way, where the left are seemingly against the right, or whatever the situation is: the same standards must apply to everyone in this matter.
If I were a Hungarian, I would have serious questions about not just the media law, but the creeping autocratic tendencies of the government; but I am not a Hungarian, it is not my business.
It is essential that the European Union make every effort within its powers to end the emergency, in coordination with the United Nations Security Council, as quickly as possible.
Expressing a clear condemnation, proposing a no-fly zone, establishing an arms embargo and other sanctions, providing humanitarian aid, evacuating European citizens, ensuring assistance to civilian populations affected are, however, all ex post measures that merely seek to stem the disaster.
But I think it is urgent that the European Council, which is meeting tomorrow, acts as soon and as decisively as possible, firstly, to establish a no-fly zone over Libya to prevent its government from continuing to kill its citizens and, secondly, to establish relations with the Interim National Council.
We added this call to our resolution.
The EU was largely absent at the beginning of the North African crisis and the transition to democracy, but now it seems to have started to be more active and more effective in this area. (FI) Madam President, the Libyan people must have the right before anyone else to decide the future of their own country.
The EU should do all it can to support the wave of democracy in the Arab world.
If the attacks on the civilian population continue, and that seems to be the case, the EU must negotiate a UN mandate and action to create a nofly zone over Libya to avoid a human catastrophe.
We face, therefore, the obligation to support the Libyan people in their fight for freedom, democracy and fundamental human rights.
As long as 25 years ago, President Reagan's administration tried to bring an end to Gaddafi's rule.
There might have been an argument for some direct strike against the Gaddafi regime in the 1980s when it was plainly engaged in international terrorism.
I think we have done quite enough. (SK) Madam President, I welcome the resolution, and I have therefore supported it.
Thanks to the support of those good people, leaders such as Havel, Walesa and Čarnogurský were prepared for the fall of communism.
The report supports the Council's double-track approach to the nuclear issue: sanctions on the one hand, but an offer of dialogue on the other.
It is indispensable to denounce the extremely serious human rights violations occurring in Iran today.
An armed attack against Iran in the name of human rights would be considered by all Iranians, regardless of their political positions, as an attack against the country and an additional violation of their fundamental rights.
Madam President, having voted in favour of this resolution, I think it is now time to apply the same approach to the Tehran regime as we have been applying to Libya and Colonel Gaddafi.
We should support more opposition in Iran.
Parliament adopted a resolution in April 2009 and a written declaration last November on the subject of that camp, and I would advise Baroness Ashton to take this serious message to the European Council tomorrow. (PL) Madam President, Iran, under the government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is a cause of grave anxiety due to the nuclear ambitions of its rulers.
In this respect, this should have been a resolution on human rights, not on the Middle East.
If the aim had been to find a balance here, instead of attempting to blame Israel in this biased way, mention could perhaps have been made of Gilad Shalit, the Israeli soldier who has been deprived of human rights for 1 720 days as a prisoner of the Palestinian Arabs or Hamas.
Written explanations of vote This motion for a resolution has been adopted in view of the worrying state of media law in Hungary, which calls into question the requirement of balanced coverage for all providers of audiovisual media, respect for proportionality and the fundamental rights of expression and information.
I agree with the proposal made in the resolution that the Hungarian authorities must review the media law further on the basis of the comments made by the European Commission, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, the Committee of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, ensuring this law's conformity with EU law and European values, as well as standards on media freedom, pluralism and independence.
The Hungarian Government has done a good job of dealing with all the brouhaha surrounding this controversial law in such a way that it has made it clear that freedom of the press and media pluralism have been and remain fundamental pillars in Hungary.
Moreover, the Commission will, rightly, continue to monitor this issue, not only in Hungary, but in all Member States of the European Union.
The independence of media governance and freedom of expression are not negotiable.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the Hungarian media law should be suspended and reviewed on the basis of the comments and proposals from the Commission, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe, in order to ensure that it is fully in conformity with EU law and European values and standards on media freedom, pluralism and independent media governance.
Furthermore, the European Parliament recalls that the Copenhagen criteria for EU membership, as established in 1993 at the Copenhagen European Council, relating to freedom of the press and freedom of expression should be upheld by all EU Member States and enforced through relevant EU legislation.
In addition, Parliament calls on the Commission to propose a legislative initiative on media freedom, pluralism and independent governance before the end of the year with a view to defining at least the minimum essential standards and in order to ensure, guarantee and promote an adequate level of media pluralism and independent media governance in the EU Member States.
The freedom and pluralism of the media are fundamental rights which ensure the freedom to express opinions and to receive and communicate information without any kind of interference or pressure from the public authorities.
The European Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties, expressed its concern and requested information from Hungary on a possible violation of this right, namely, the fact that Hungarian media law may not comply with the directive on audiovisual media services.
I was pleased to learn that on 7 March, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the amendments that had been agreed between its government and the Commission, although I cannot understand why the socialists and Hungarian green party voted against it.
The European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Hungarian Government to suspend and to carry out an 'urgent re-examination' of the controversial Hungarian media law package, even though it was recently amended under pressure from its European partners.
I voted for this resolution as I think that the European Union must be prompt in preventing and combating any possible attacks against the fundamental values of democracy, with the freedom of expression being one of them.
I believe that it does not make any sense for Parliament to deliver an opinion on this issue at a time when all guarantees of freedom of expression have been given, including by the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr Orbán.
Freedom of expression and information, including the freedom to express opinions and the freedom to receive and communicate information without interference or pressure, are social values which many have fought for over the years, including in Portugal.
The Communists have been, and are now, in the front line of this fight.
The pluralism and freedom of the media continue to provoke concern in various Member States, particularly in Hungary, Italy, Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, and others.
These rights are now being called for in a resolution, although the amendments to this law which were adopted this week in the Hungarian Parliament have not been taken into account.
Also, not only is our resolution addressed to Hungary but notes that, unfortunately, freedom and pluralism of the media can be undermined in countries with conservative governments.
in writing. - The ECR wholeheartedly supports a free and plural media across the European Union and stresses the importance of freedom of information for all European citizens.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution because I believe the Hungarian media law should be suspended as a matter of urgency and reviewed on the basis of the Commission's, the OSCE's and the Council of Europe's comments and proposals, in order to ensure that it is fully in conformity with EU law and European values and standards on media freedom, pluralism and independent media governance.
I support the amendment of the provisions in the Hungarian press law regarded by the European Commission as less democratic, and I welcome the amendments made to the regulatory act by the government in Budapest.
However, I did not vote for the resolution signed by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left because I feel that the measures being proposed are excessive if we consider similar laws in other Member States, but which have not been sanctioned publicly.
This motion for a resolution is inappropriate in both timing and form, as everyone knows that following the initial criticism made about media law in Hungary and the recommendations made by the Commission, the Hungarian Government has revised its position and altered everything about the law that was the target of criticism by the Commission.
Therefore, the law voted upon by the Hungarian Parliament on 7 March was a version that complied perfectly with European legislation.
This freedom is also our freedom and it is a guarantee of the free exercise of our mandate.
in writing. - It is known that according to commentaries and proposals from the European Commission, the OSCE, and the European Council, the media law in Hungary should be revised as soon as possible in order to ensure its correspondence to EU legislation and European virtues and standards which relate to the freedom of media information, pluralism and the independence of the mass media.
The new legislation undermines the pluralism and freedom of the mass media and removes its political and financial independence.
For instance, the Latvian Government still has not implemented the European Parliament's resolution of 11 March 2004.
The attacks of the European left on the law on press freedom recently adopted in Hungary should be read within the context of the piece of theatre whereby tools made available by our institutions are often used in an improper and instrumental manner to support international or domestic political and media disinformation campaigns.
Attacking the country that chairs the European Union at a time when it should be supported in the performance of its duties has the effect of weakening the Union as a whole and depriving it of its authority.
in writing. - This law has effectively been designed with the intention of restricting media activities in Hungary and limiting critical scrutiny of the government, as part of wider restrictions on pluralism in Hungary.
Parliament has made it clear that the Commission should not simply roll over and give in to the Hungarian Government on this crucial issue.
The Hungarian media law must also be seen as just the latest attempt to limit media freedom in Europe.
I voted against this resolution because I believe that the political groups of the left who sit in this Chamber have exploited a national political issue, which in any case has already been resolved, as evidenced by the recent agreement between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission.
I believe that such national issues should not be brought into question in this House as they are the direct responsibility of individual Member States.
in writing. - I am very pleased that this resolution was passed highlighting the European Parliament's commitment to freedom of expression and the independence of the media throughout Member States.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against this resolution tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
I am in favour of this motion for a resolution, as I believe that Gaddafi's regime should be destroyed immediately, given the way that he is repressing the Libyan population in their political protests and as a way of preventing more deaths.
I should like to finish by saying that the events in Libya, Egypt and Tunisia require a paradigm shift of European foreign policy as regards the southern Mediterranean countries, and I would like to show my solidarity with the Libyans.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
The massive protests in numerous Arab countries have shown that undemocratic and authoritarian regimes cannot guarantee credible stability and that democratic values are central to economic and political partnerships.
I voted for this resolution, which is a step in the right direction as regards the reaction of the European Union to the revolution, which is degenerating into civil war, in Libya.
Revolutions are a dream that becomes reality, but civil war is a nightmare.
We have heard the appeal that the Interim Transitional National Council made on 5 March.
It is our duty to support this alternative and to protect the Libyan people against the forces of the regime.
According to recent estimates, the political turmoil in North Africa could lead some 300 000 refugees to end up on the southern shores of the Union.
Furthermore, in order to limit mass immigration to Europe, I call for consideration to be given to the sending of humanitarian aid to affected populations, both to support the process of democratisation and economic growth in the region.
In my view, such an emergency plan must be supported by the principle of solidarity between EU Member States.
The Union for the Mediterranean needs to adapt to the new times and circumstances, and to reflect and act upon the recent events, with the aim of submitting proposals on a better way of promoting democracy and human rights in their Member States and in the region, which includes Libya, and on possible reforms to make its own role stronger and more coherent and effective.
I voted in favour of the resolution on 'Southern Neighbourhood, and Libya in particular, including humanitarian aspects', because I believe that Colonel Gaddafi should abandon power immediately so as to allow a peaceful political transition and prevent any more spilling of blood.
Any aggression against this country, regardless of pretexts and mandates, would have serious consequences for a people that is already living in a situation of deep tension and insecurity.
Any military attack on Libya, which would be inseparable from the aims of controlling the Libyans' natural resources, will be directed not only against the Libyan people, but against all the people in the region who have arisen and are continuing to fight for their social and political rights, for freedom, democracy and the real sovereignty and independence of their countries.
This resolution, therefore, instead of contributing to a peaceful solution, seems to be aimed at preparing for acts of aggression by the USA, NATO and perhaps the EU against Libya.
We would thus like to express our firm opposition to any external military intervention in this country.
Any aggression against Libya, regardless of pretexts and mandates, would have serious consequences for a people who are already living in a situation of deep tension and insecurity; it would be deeply damaging to all those in Libya who are continuing to fight for their rights, democracy, sovereignty and peace, and would introduce serious elements of instability and conflict into the region.
Any military attack on Libya by the USA and its allies, which would be inseparable from their aims of controlling the Libyans' natural resources, would be directed not only against the Libyan people, but against all the people in the region who have arisen and are continuing to fight for their social and political rights, for freedom, democracy and the real sovereignty and independence of their countries.
This resolution, adopted by a large majority and to which I contributed, shows that the European Parliament is not remaining silent on the situation in Libya.
Quite the contrary, through its position, it is calling on the European Union, the Member States, and Baroness Ashton to support its proposals.
It pledges its support for the Libyan people and advocates, among other things, recognising the Interim Transitional National Council of Libya and supporting the establishment of a no-fly zone in accordance with a United Nations mandate and in coordination with the Arab League and the African Union.
It also condemns in the strongest possible terms the human rights violations in Libya by the regime and calls on Colonel Gaddafi to stand down immediately.
The Union for the Mediterranean must adapt to the new era and circumstances and reflect and act on recent events, in order to put forward proposals on how best to promote democracy and human rights in its Member States and in the region, including Libya, and on possible reforms, in order to make its own role stronger, more coherent and more effective.
The European Union should make contact with the Interim Transitional National Council without delay and begin the process for its official recognition.
We would also allow the regime to claim that the West was attacking Libya, rather than attempting to defend the people of Libya.
In this context, I consider it important that the mandate is clearly accepted by as many countries as possible and, in particular, that it should be in compliance with the mandate of the UN Security Council.
A civil war in Libya seems worryingly imminent and must be avoided at all costs.
The EU has to take a leading role in this process and help to find solutions that avoid exacerbating the conflict that is currently occurring in this country.
I also hope that the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Baroness Ashton, will establish relations with the Interim Transitional National Council as soon as possible for it to be recognised as a legitimate interlocutor pending democratic elections.
These measures have been condemned in the strongest possible terms by the outside world, and the European Parliament is calling for a no-fly zone, in order to stop Gaddafi's bombers from attacking civilians, recognition of the Interim Transitional National Council and the pro-democracy movement as legitimate representatives of the Libyan people and the breaking off of all relations with Gaddafi.
I feel that it should be an obligation for the international community, and the European Union in the first instance, to establish relations with the Interim Transitional National Council of the insurgents in order to help initiate a process of democratisation in the country.
The time has come for Europe to stand firm in asserting its voice to end this dramatic situation, which could also have severe repercussions throughout the EU, beginning with a massive wave of migration to Italy, in particular, and Europe in general.
in writing. - I see paragraphs 10 and 11 (as amended) as being especially important in this text: '10.
Stresses that the EU and its Member States must uphold the responsibility to protect, in order to save Libyan civilians from large-scale armed attacks; thus, no option foreseen in the UN Charter is to be ruled out; Calls on the HR/VP and the Member States to stand ready for a decision in the UNSC on further measures, including the possibility of a no-fly zone aimed at preventing the regime from targeting the population; Underlines that any measures enacted by the EU and its Member States should be in compliance with a UN mandate and seek coordination with the Arab League and the African Union, encouraging both organisations to steer international efforts; 11.
I also believe it a strategically important option for the European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Baroness Ashton, to establish contact with representatives of the rebel Interim Transitional National Council in order to speed up the process of official recognition of that body.
It is time that Colonel Gaddafi gave up power and put an end to the systematic violation of human rights which is operating in his country.
On paragraph 15: with regard to Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it remains the case that I - like the Austrian Government - advocate solidarity on a voluntary basis.
I voted for the resolution of the European Parliament on Libya, which is a clear message of political support for the Libyan revolution.
The no-fly zone is envisaged in paragraph 10 of the resolution and places it within the framework of the UN to prevent the regime from targeting the civilian population in coordination with the Arab League and the African Union.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
I also agree with the Council's position of a dual approach to the nuclear question: sanctions on the one hand, but offering dialogue on the other.
Whereas, on 12 May 2010, the EU called once again on Iran to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty, in accordance with United Nations General Assembly resolutions 62/149 and 63/168, Iran continues to hold the world record for executions of children and women and on the basis of sexual orientation.
Furthermore, there continues to be a high number of human rights violations in the country.
According to annual reports on the death penalty in Iran, the number of executions in 2009 was the highest for the past 10 years, making Iran the country with the highest number of executions per capita in the world.
I agree with the report's call for Iran to abolish definitively the death penalty for crimes committed before the age of 18 and to amend its legislation, which violates the international human rights conventions that Iran has ratified, including the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and call upon Iran to issue official statistics concerning the application of the death penalty.
I voted for this report, because I think that Iran should put an end to all forms of discrimination, a situation which particularly affects women.
If this were not the case, many of the considerations and criticisms made here would extend to other countries in the region, such as Israel or Saudi Arabia, and the same criteria would apply to them that are now being applied to Iran.
The violation of human rights is a reprehensible act in Iran or in any other country in the world.
If the objective were effectively respect for human rights and the security of the region, it would be necessary to unmask this situation in other countries in the area such as Israel and Saudi Arabia, and to apply the same criteria to those countries.
I voted in favour of this document because democratic change cannot be imposed from outside or even by military means but has to be achieved through a peaceful democratic process.
As you know, the proliferation risks in connection with the Iranian nuclear programme remain a source of serious concern to the European Union and to the international community, as expressed very clearly in many United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The stabilising influence which Iran could potentially regain would be beneficial to the entire region, provided that it normalises its international relations, in particular, with its neighbours, dispels once and for all the concerns regarding the real aims of its nuclear programme and guarantees respect for human rights and democracy.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which condemns the human rights situation in Iran and calls for measures to be taken to prevent Iran becoming a nuclear power.
The constant violations of human rights in Iran are a cause for concern, but they cannot prevent a dialogue with it with the aim of putting an end to such incidents; we must be proactive in seeking solutions which will bring them to an end.
The recent attacks on members of the opposition are worrying, and it is necessary to make the Iranian regime see that such behaviour only leads to greater international isolation.
We must do everything in our power to eliminate negative discrimination and social repression in Iran as soon as possible, thus ensuring that the country can take its first steps towards democratic change.
Despite the fact that this report has been improved slightly after a number of amendments, I voted against it because it advocates a policy of sanctions that, in my opinion, will not improve the situation of the Iranian people; in fact, quite the opposite.
In my opinion, the European Parliament report should diffuse the tension rather than increase it, because if diplomatic channels are exhausted, it will aggravate the already complicated situation for the people of Iran.
Iran has the highest rate of executions per head of population in the world.
The country is second to China as regards application of the death penalty by stoning in terms of the number of executions, and first on a per capita basis.
If Iran wants to maintain good relations with the EU and other democratic states, it must unequivocally remove all doubts as to the purpose of its nuclear programme.
in writing. - It is hilarious and, at the same time, very sad to talk about respect for rights and freedoms in a country which is ruled by a person who threatens to massacre the United States, Europe and Israel.
Electoral fraud, violent repression of demonstrations and executions, which amounted to 680 in 2010 (twice as many as in the previous year) and the arrest of opposition leaders leave no doubts over the use of power and violence by the regime.
The EU sanctions of 26 July 2010, in line with those of the UN, were proper and necessary.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report which outlines the severe situation which is being experienced in Iran, denouncing the practices of repression and the systematic violations of human rights perpetrated by the Iranian authorities and highlighting the need to earnestly seek a diplomatic solution to the nuclear issue.
In particular, I should like to join in expressing solidarity with the Iranian people, who have been legitimately calling for democratic change in the country following the presidential elections in 2009.
I support the text of this report because it highlights the main aspects that make Iran one of the most dangerous countries in the international arena, both in humanitarian and political terms.
As if that were not enough, the death penalty by stoning is still in force in this country, with an increasing number of executions, not to mention the fact that we still have no evidence that the nuclear installations in the country are being used for exclusively peaceful purposes.
Through this report, the European Parliament condemns the use of the death penalty as well as numerous other abuses of human rights.
I also support the opinion of my fellow Member that the EU should devise a broader strategy towards Iran which goes beyond the nuclear issue and also addresses the human rights situation and other important matters.
I therefore believe it is important for the European Union to preserve and, where possible, maintain forms of dialogue with the government in Tehran.
I should like to draw attention to the conclusions, and I agree that the EU must enhance its practice of speaking with a single voice as this would increase its visibility and influence as a global player, and the delegations in Geneva and New York need to increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of EU action in the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC).
The European Union and its Member States are committed to guaranteeing respect for human rights in their own policies.
The UNHRC should therefore be better equipped to address both chronic and emergency situations, through the expansion of the human rights toolbox, by using panels not just during but also in-between sessions.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the European Union and its Member States should guarantee respect for human rights in their own policies, and the European Union's position in the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) should be stronger and more effective.
Priorities for the Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council and the 2011 review are necessary, because only then can we assess how the Human Rights Council has implemented its mandate and determine the methods of work that must be enhanced so that the UNHRC is more efficient and responds to human rights violations promptly.
The European Parliament regrets the fact that on several occasions, the UNHRC has been unable to address serious human rights situations in an urgent and timely manner because of the absence of adequate instruments, and actively seeks the creation of dedicated UNHRC mechanisms to respond promptly to the human rights crises in, for example, the Middle East, Iran and Belarus.
Parliament also calls on EU Member States to actively engage in the 2011 review of the UNHRC to strengthen compliance with its mandate.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the agenda of the 16th regular session of the Human Rights Council lays down important issues which are of particular relevance.
The 16th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council will take place during a particularly turbulent historical period, which undermines its very composition, given that some of its members are far from complying with the provisions of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and promoting and protecting human rights, in accordance with its mission.
The European Union must actively participate in this session and do all it can to ensure that its universalistic view of human rights based on personal dignity becomes increasingly widespread and effectively implemented in every country in the world.
The European Parliament has long had a policy of double standards concerning human rights.
Once again, in this report, the selective way in which various countries are mentioned is clear.
Finally, we object to the idea of the European Union having a permanent seat on the United Nations General Assembly for the simple reason that it would not make sense in light of the spirit and principles of the organisation, contained in the United Nations Charter.
The hypocritical use of this report is obvious, as the countries with which the EU has good economic and diplomatic relations and those which are of strategic importance are not criticised, despite their violations of human rights, including, for example, Columbia and Honduras.
Moreover, we cannot support the idea of the European Union having a permanent seat on the United Nations General Assembly because the UN is an organisation made up of sovereign and independent states and the European Union is not a state according to the UN Charter.
You can count on us to defend human rights, but do not count on us for exercises in hypocrisy.
The 16th Session of the UN Human Rights Council offers a unique opportunity to evaluate the way in which the Council has fulfilled its mandate and, at the same time, a chance to improve the Council's working methods with the aim of ensuring a more effective and systematic response to situations involving the violation of human rights.
I think that it is vital to set up, as part of the EU Council, a human rights working group which will include experts in human rights from all 27 EU Member States, based in Brussels.
I have just voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the priorities of the 16th Session of the UN Human Rights Council.
Our resolution is particularly significant because we have today remembered the suppression of peaceful protests against the violent occupation of Tibet 52 years ago.
On 20 March, a new prime minister and a new parliament will be elected.
The European Union will therefore have to play a truly active role in this session and take every step to ensure its universalistic view of human rights based on respect for human dignity is followed by every country in the world.
It is also important for the EU that a European high representative for human rights be appointed in order for its view on defending human rights to be increasingly widespread.
Unfortunately I could not vote in favour of this European Parliament resolution on the priorities of the 16th Session of the UN Human Rights Council, because it lays down a number of points with which I disagree.
The resolution calls for coordination with the United States in the area of human rights, it welcomes the appointment of Morocco as a co-facilitator in the Human Rights Council of the United Nations, and encourages the EU to maintain 'common positions' with regard to certain countries.
I voted in favour of this resolution because the United Nations Human Rights Council plays a very important role throughout the world in addressing issues relating to human rights.
Every effort must therefore be made to increase the visibility and effectiveness of action on the part of the European Union and its Member States, and it is vital to ensure that the European Union is committed to actively participating in this important 16th session of the Human Rights Council (UNHRC) as well as in the UNHRC review process, which will take place in 2011.
in writing. - A good report where, among other things, Parliament welcomes the fact that the agenda of the 16th regular session includes reports on the 'Rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities', and on the 'Promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism', as well as extensive meetings on the rights of the child; welcomes also this year's nominations of Special Rapporteurs on these key topics, and takes note of the reports to be presented by the Special Rapporteurs on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, on freedom of religion or belief, and on the situation of human rights defenders; calls on the EU Member States to contribute actively to these debates.
On the other hand, the challenge of this resolution was to vote on the mandate of the European Union delegation to the United Nations Human Rights Council for its 16th session, although the session had already begun on 28 February, with Baroness Ashton having made several speeches.
Voting on this resolution when the session of the Human Rights Council has already begun makes little sense; the European Parliament should have explained its upstream position.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the priorities of the 16th Session of the UN Human Rights Council.
With regard to the review of the Human Rights Council, I obviously also support the call for an all-inclusive and, above all, transparent process.
