Therefore, those who have been granted speaking time can now begin straight away. (SV) Madam President, on 11 April, Sudan intends to elect a president and a parliament as well as regional assemblies.
These are the first elections in Sudan in 24 years and we are following developments in the country with a great deal of interest.
The International Criminal Court in the Hague has issued a warrant for the arrest of Sudan's President, Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir, who took power in a coup d'état, for crimes against humanity.
In just the first few months of this year, no fewer than 400 people have been killed in southern Sudan.
It is becoming very difficult for the people in such countries to understand whether the European Union is implementing a policy of poverty reduction or actually increasing poverty in the social area.
The European Commission should take greater responsibility and responsibly supervise the implementation of national government crisis management plans, especially in the area of social reforms, and assess the effects of such reforms on the people. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 16 people convicted of various types of crime have been elected to the Italian Parliament and, at the last European elections, Italy sent three MEPs who have been convicted by final judgment.
We would point out that not only is this the responsibility of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but that Article 223 (formerly 190) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union actually stipulates that the European Parliament should implement a uniform electoral procedure throughout the European Union. (FR) Madam President, Hondarribia airport is classed by the civil aviation authority as one of the most dangerous in the country.
I should like to know which measures the President is going to take with regard to this extension. (PL) Madam President, I would like to raise the problem of the murder of the Russian journalist Maxim Zuev.
The same issue arose with Siemens, which applied the same practice and corrupted the governments of thirty countries in a bid to win contracts from public corporations, a scandal which is still rocking Greece.
Finally, instead of acting, instead of activating the Fraud Prevention Committee, the European Commission does not defend the legality and, in numerous cases, does not safeguard European citizens' money. (EL) Madam President, I must announce to the European Parliament that, at 02.15 this morning, the Turkish corvette Bafra violated Greek territorial waters, coming within just 18 miles of the Athens coast, and even asked to board and search a Greek merchant vessel sailing alongside.
It comes from the fact that this neighbouring country is threatening Greece with a casus belli and is systematically provoking the Greek armed forces, not only with violations of its waters, but also of its airspace. (The President noted that there was a problem with the microphone) ...
We are asking for the support of the European Union as an entity, so that we can overcome these irregularities in the markets which are attacking the euro. (DE) Madam President, around ten years ago, the then 14 other EU Member States imposed their so-called 'sanctions' on my country, Austria.
Setting up a European inter-gender violence monitoring centre and introducing protection orders and an emergency telephone number are intended to restrict the occurrence of this phenomenon in the European Union, while providing support in the battle against violence outside the EU as well. (LT) I am delighted that the European Union and the Member States have made a commitment to combating poverty by declaring 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, since almost 80 million of Europe's inhabitants are living below the poverty line.
EUR 17 million has been earmarked to implement Europe's planned action in 2010 and this budget will be used to organise information seminars, work groups and public consultations in order to overcome poverty stereotypes.
Therefore, I would like to call on EU structures and Member States to take concrete action and make long-term commitments at all levels of authority to ensure the transparent and targeted allocation of funds intended to directly help people experiencing poverty. (EL) The decision by the Israeli Government to push ahead with its plan to build 1 600 new homes in East Jerusalem, to extend the settlement on the West Bank, to maintain the isolation of the Gaza Strip, and to generally step up the attacks by the Israeli army in the occupied Palestinian territories reveals to even the most ardent disbeliever the criminal plans of Israel and of the imperialists in general against the Palestinian people and the people in the area as a whole.
We are fighting with all the workers to create ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) After the Second World War and the redrawing of boundaries, about 400 000 Slovaks remained in Hungary and a similar number of Hungarians in Slovakia.
The Slovak minority has been decimated from the original 400 000 Slovaks to less than 33 000, in other words, not even one tenth of the original number.
This is because the Slovak Government provides the Hungarian minority with education in the mother tongue at more than 700 schools, while the Hungarian Government allows the Slovaks in Hungary just one single elementary school.
The Commission has thus put an end to this illegal situation, and I thank them for it.
In an effort to compensate for those losses, an application was submitted in October 2009 to the European Globalisation Fund (EGF) on behalf of SR Technics workers.
In connection with this, I would very much like to ask Mr Potočnik to consider putting forward a proposal for an amendment to exempt speedway from Directive 2002/49/EC. (HU) Madam President, in the province of Vojvodina in Slobodan Milošević's country, Serbia, Hungarians continue to be assaulted.
Decades ago, there were some 400 000 Hungarians living in Vojvodina, making up one third of the population.
A condition for the latter's accession to the European Union should be to do justice to the many tens of thousands of victims of mass murders since the Second World War, as well as a ban on the violence against Hungarians that continues to this day. (PL) Madam President, women are under-represented in science and scientific research.
