Creation of an immigration liaison officers' network (debate) The next item is the report by Agustín Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 377/2004 on the creation of an immigration liaison officers' network - C7-0055/2009 -.
The relevant legal bases of the proposal are Article 63(3)(b) and Article 66 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Unfortunately, the Treaty in Article 79 refers to 'illegal' so that is why it is in there, but I myself also always use the term 'irregular' migration, so I fully agree with you.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I also would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, for his great work.
As we have already heard, this network involves approximately 130 countries and allows us to obtain sound information.
When you see that, in Greece, we have 90% of illegal entries of immigrants into Europe, that alone shows that we have a great deal to do.
In my opinion, the powers of Frontex should be enhanced as quickly as possible - with the consent of the Member States - in order to be able to ensure that its work is uniform and effective, particularly at the external borders. (MT) Madam President, as the rapporteur for the Frontex Regulation, I am happy to welcome the latest development that has been made to the law that we have before us, as it will help us throughout the process of strengthening the Frontex agency.
For human reasons, I propose the introduction of everyone's right to reside in their native land, in their home country, and appropriate economic and other conditions should be created in the world, including in countries considered second-rate EU Member States, to ensure that people can live in the country that is their homeland.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, even if the debate did not show it, I understand, Mr Díaz de Mera, that you have very strong support for your proposal.
There have been 18 speeches this afternoon, and the majority groups have supported this report.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 14 December.
