However, we feel that the most important thing is for the growing of protein crops to be given an important central role in future in the reform of the common agricultural policy, because it offers many advantages for a reformed agricultural policy.
Having stated this as a central objective, however, we need to be aware that certain matters included in the vote in the report are questionable; namely, the creation of import concessions for soya by questioning the zero tolerance policy.
Lastly, in future, we need to incorporate protein crops into the crop rotation cycle as part of our prudent and responsible soil use management. (PT) Mr President, the deficit of vegetable proteins from protein crops in Europe is another example of the inequalities created by the agricultural and trade policies in force.
We need to adopt a series of measures that incentivise the production of protein crops, in particular, committing to local production with short supply chains, so as to overcome the current deficit and gradually scale back imports.
They were saying that the recent moves are merely political nods, which do not and will not provide a long-term solution, and we really do need to move to a solution in relation to zero tolerance. (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, as shadow rapporteur for my group, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur for the conditions in which we were able to work with him on this matter.
I should like to quote a figure: in 2010, the Chinese bought 49% of the soymeal placed on the market.
There is not a single indication for this ban to prevail for non-ruminant ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) The European Union's ill-advised agricultural policy has led to a situation where the production of plants high in protein is no longer economically viable for European farmers.
On the one hand, we are conducting a debate on allowing or banning GMO products in the European Union and, at the same time, we are avoiding the fact that genetically-modified soya for feed production is being imported from other countries, and that, eventually, we consume it indirectly. (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-written report - much better written than a lot of what we vote on in this Chamber.
However, there is also a very major issue that is not resolved anywhere in this report, namely, the fact that we are eating more and more meat.
Support for farmers using crop rotation systems which include pulses is one of the main ideas in your report.
Let me also underline that a significant increase in pulses and soya beans in the EU would probably imply a reduction in the production of cereals, as availability of land in Europe is limited.
The vote will take place at midday on Tuesday, 8 March.
The EU is not in a position to produce the feeds it requires itself and is making itself dependent on third countries.
The Commission should prepare a report on the possibilities for increasing domestic protein crop production, support research into protein crops and their upgrading and cultivation in the EU, and protein crops should be promoted as a quality feed source in the context of rural development.
