The situation in the beekeeping sector (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the situation in the beekeeping sector by Paolo De Castro, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - B7-0564/2010).
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are about to vote on represents the view of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the European beekeeping support policy.
The main demands to the Commission contained in the motion for a resolution include the following: a specific undertaking after the expiry of national programmes, also in view of new challenges and problems in the sector, namely bee mortality, price volatility etc.; a commitment to the necessary improvement in statistical measurements, for more effective control of non-EU honey imports and research development; a strengthening of the role of European veterinary policy; an action plan to tackle the phenomenon of widespread bee mortality, partly through specific undertakings in the field of research; greater financial support in the field of operator training and education and, lastly, a revitalised role as a leading player for the beekeeping sector within the common agricultural policy after 2013.
The budget for these programmes has risen from EUR 26 million to EUR 32 million for the 2011-2013 period.
It is also important to note that all Member States have devised a programme, which shows their interest both in beekeeping and in the needs of this sector.
Then there is the increase in bee mortality due to many different factors, including varroasis and other diseases.
The issue of bee health is particularly worrying within but also outside the European Union.
In November 2008, the European Parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the beekeeping sector which called on the Commission to put in place specific actions and to make sure these actions were coordinated.
Madam President, when I took over responsibility for the situation in the beekeeping sector in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development from my German fellow Member, Reimer Böge, 16 years ago, another German MEP said to me rather disparagingly: 'Oh, I see, the little creatures for the little countries'.
This has become all the more important as a result of the high levels of bee mortality in many regions, which have given rise to justified concerns about whether there are enough bees and beekeepers to meet our needs.
I am very grateful for the fact that this resolution has been supported by all the groups in the House.
Beekeepers from many Member States have come to Strasbourg today with their products, but also with their concerns and expectations, to highlight the fact that they need our help in solving their problems.
When you consider that, from a budget of more than EUR 140 billion, only EUR 32 million has been spent on safeguarding three quarters of the food production and four fifths of the plants which are dependent on pollination, it should be clear to everyone here that the important task today is to ensure the continuation and the development of this policy beyond 2013.
The problem with beekeeping is, above all, environmental and has consequences that could become catastrophic if we are unable to respond adequately in time.
However, agriculture is also an important economic activity in rural areas, with great potential for growth, since European production is a long way from guaranteeing our needs.
I should therefore like the Commission to clarify what its immediate responses to this problem will be, and whether it is thinking of including this activity in the new CAP architecture that we are about to start debating.
Madam President, Mr Cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, providing protection for bees is in the best interests of the agricultural sector and many farmers are also beekeepers.
We must ensure that these programmes are continued after 2013.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe supports this resolution.
I will echo comments about the beekeeping sector, but I would remind colleagues that the wild bumble bee population across Europe is also in a similar - and very grave - situation.
I would pay tribute to the work of the Bumblebee Conservation Trust in Scotland, covering the bumble bee population across the UK.
Commissioner, I would pick up on question 4 - an excellent question - suggesting that the Commission bring bee diseases into the veterinary policy.
We are, of course, entering a period of intense debate on the future of the CAP, and I believe that this is a fundamental problem that should continue to be addressed in the context of a revised EU agricultural policy after 2013.
In essence, support for the agriculture sector should be strengthened after 2013.
Let us support the bees.
The report admits that it cannot identify the prime cause for the drop in bee numbers, and so cites a large number of possibilities.
I recently visited a number of orchard owners in Northern Ireland who have suffered from the declining bee population and indeed voiced their concern over it.
The most important statement of this document is the one which calls on the European Commission to ensure that the current support programmes in the apiculture sector today are continued and strengthened after 2013.
I think we can pay tribute to her this evening.
Beekeepers' organisations are of great significance in terms of development of the sector.
Many efforts concerning programmes for the support of training and for tackling problems involving quality and standards should be carried out in conjunction with them. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the current situation in the beekeeping sector, with mortality among bees putting the pollination of fruit, vegetables and so on - and hence our food itself - at risk, illustrates the dead-end nature of actions by modern man which ignore the interactions between economic sectors and nature or are indifferent to them.
We have heard from all our speakers tonight about the significance and importance of this sector.
The role of bees in plant pollination is indispensable.
We need to take action now, before the financial cost and the cost of survival become insuperable. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with some 600 000 beekeepers and just under 14 million hives throughout the EU, beekeeping represents an area of considerable importance within the Union farming sector.
By virtue of this role, it is planned to increase annual aid to the sector in Europe from EUR 26 million for 2008-2010 to EUR 32 million for 2011-2013.
The European Parliament intends to guarantee these funds even after 2013 because beekeeping is one of the activities fully compatible with the sustainability and diversification objectives that the new CAP aims to achieve.
We do need to look at enhancing biodiversity, so you would have my support on that, Commissioner. (RO) Madam President, I would like to begin, just as other fellow Members have done, by welcoming the decision adopted by the Commission in September on approving the national beekeeping programmes of the 27 Member States for the 2011-2013 period, and especially the fact that the European Union's contribution to funding these programmes has risen by 25%, compared with the previous period.
Beekeeping also promotes economic development in rural areas.
On this point, I would like to stress that it is important for European support programmes to focus not only on honey producers, but also on small processors, especially as part of the current second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
Last but not least, apiculture products are used not only for food consumption, but also become ingredients in products.
So we have a serious problem, because the population globally has declined rapidly over the last 10 years.
The first problem is that of the parasites - the Varroa mite - that has to be addressed and dealt with.
I think young people, because they are now very pro-nature, could be encouraged to go into beekeeping - as Ms McGuinness said, maybe as a hobby first, and some could go into it on a full-time basis if it proved productive.
It is not the number of hives, it is the number of bees and the number of swarms that is important at the end of the day: the actual numbers of bees which are actively promoting the whole honey product which we depend on as a human race and which is so hugely beneficial to all - each and every one of us.
So I commend my colleague, Mrs Lulling, for a wonderful initiative and I wish it well. (DE) Madam President, we do not have enough bees and we also do not have enough beekeepers.
Two points are particularly important to me in this respect.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the rapporteur, Mrs Lulling, have presented some good proposals.
Various factors have, unfortunately, led to a growing mortality rate among bees that causes risk not only to beekeepers in planning their activities but also to agriculture and the environment.
Above all, though, with a view to the CAP after 2013, I would ask that the true role of beekeeping be acknowledged and that EU cofinance be increased from 50 to 75%. (HU) Madam President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur and Mrs Lulling for their role in this report on the situation of apiculture and, if you will allow me, I wish to express my gratitude to the deservedly world-famous Hungarian beekeepers for sharing their experiences and knowledge with me so that I could pass on all the information I received from them to the committee.
I think that it is important to promote and develop research in this area and to improve the coordination between different research projects in the individual Member States in order to ensure that we have healthy bees.
Whatever happens, we should continue to support the beekeeping sector beyond 2013 and also make sure that in future, we have both enough bees and enough beekeepers to care for them. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the death rate amongst bees is increasing and the number of beekeepers is decreasing.
The life of a worker bee is very short - around six weeks - and very sensitive to environmental changes.
This means that honey production has also been affected, not just because of the increasingly uncertain length and stability of the seasons, but also because of growing threats from outside sources, such as pesticide use and mites, amongst other things.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from this we conclude that beekeeping is indeed an important sector in itself, because of what it produces directly, but also because of the indirect effects it can have on other crops.
Regarding aid for the sector, I would say that with the support Mrs Lulling has in Parliament and all the other supporters, it would be difficult to say no.
I think that we can indeed have added value in research on bee health, but also in developing production and the quality of products as well as in promoting the consumption of honey and related products.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (LV) I have been in touch with beekeeping organisations in Latvia.
Unfortunately, our work and the text of the resolution have come under criticism in the Latvian media.
Only 7% of Europe's farmers are younger than 35 and no fewer than 4.5 million farmers will be retiring in the next 10 years.
Generational change in agriculture is a strategic issue that is important for the future of the European Union and affects all European Union citizens.
Whether we are talking about a transitional period up to 2013 or a new seven-year period, it is vital to draw up sufficiently motivating programmes for developing beekeeping, supported by the relevant instruments, including both legal instruments at the EU level, as well as the allocation of financial resources and establishment of control mechanisms helping to monitor fulfilment of the objectives of the beekeeping support and development programme.
The text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on support for the beekeeping sector is particularly relevant in the context of the common agricultural policy post-2013 reform.
This is crucial in order to prevent the negative impact that is very likely to be had on our food production, since we know that 84% of plant species depend on pollination by bees.
Therefore, as a first step in combating bee population collapses, we must gain a better insight into this phenomenon by carrying out more research into bee mortality.
Secondly, and in addition, we urge the Commission to increase its support for the beekeeping sector and to renew the existing support programmes before they come to an end, as planned, in 2012.
