South Korea - death penalty declared legal The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on South Korea - death penalty declared legal.
They did not urge or condone the use of the death penalty but called for a political decision for the Korean Parliament to decide on the future abolition of the death penalty in that country.
We also have to note that South Korea is de facto an abolitionist country.
No executions have been carried out since February 1998 and, in 2007, Amnesty International categorised South Korea as a country that has virtually abolished capital punishment.
We want them to call on the Korean Government and the President of the Republic, himself sentenced to death in 1981, to make a firm commitment to abolish the death penalty; to decide on a moratorium, pursuant to the UN decision; to voice their concern at the situation of the 59 people, including certain political prisoners, who have been sentenced to death in that country; and to call for their death sentence to be commuted.
We are therefore calling for the government of South Korea to do everything in its power, as an initial step, to adopt a legally binding moratorium that prohibits executions from taking place - there are, after all, over 55 people on death row - at which point, as a second step, the South Korea parliament should pass a law to abolish the death penalty.
All Member States of the European Union are signatories to Protocol 13 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which bans the use of the death penalty.
Despite the fact that the last executions in South Korea took place in 1997, the court decided on 25 February that the death sentence is a form of punishment which does not violate the constitutional right to life.
During 2009 Burundi, Togo and the US State of New Mexico all abolished the death penalty.
In this light, the EU was naturally disappointed at the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Korea on 25 February - by a split vote of five to four - that the death penalty was in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
Judge Lee Kang-Kook and Judge Min Hyung-Ki made clear the need to limit the use of the death penalty and to reduce the number of crimes subject to capital punishment, while Judge Song Doo-hwan argued that any decision on the death penalty should be the subject of a public debate and action by the legislature.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
For example, for a Mr Kang Ho-soon, who has reportedly confessed to killing seven women.
