The 66th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, which we commemorated on 27 January this year, serves as a reminder to us that the Roma were the third largest group among the victims of this camp.
Today we are speaking up for our Roma brothers and sisters.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin by quoting the words of Porajmos survivor Friderika Kolompár: 'We found my father when we went to Auschwitz on 2 August of '94 or '95.
When Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán presented the programme of the Hungarian EU presidency to the European Parliament on 19 January, he said: 'The Roma strategy is a priority aspect of the Hungarian Presidency, because there is no point in a smart Europe if it has no heart.
After visits to Oswiecim, Yad Vashem or the Holocaust Museum in Washington DC, you are always shocked by the inhumanity of the Holocaust perpetrators.
Those of you who visited the Children's Pavilion in Jerusalem would agree with me that you leave the pavilion shaken and you cannot believe that such events were possible in Europe and only 60 or 70 years ago.
Until European children learn at school about this holocaust and the centuries for which the Roma have been slaves in many countries that are now EU Member States and until European society realises that we have a historical duty to this population, we will fail to conduct our anti-racism campaigns properly and we will not have too much success either with our national or European Roma inclusion strategies.
Let me start by with a farewell letter written by a 14-year-old boy, Robert Reinhard, in 1943 before his deportation to Auschwitz from a German children's home.
The Roma have made a decisive contribution to the development of Europe, especially to its culture.
On the other hand, it is unacceptable that 66 years after the prisoners were liberated from the Auschwitz concentration camp an ethnic minority is subjected to such large-scale discrimination across the European Union.
Porajmos, which is the Roma term for this extermination, claimed between 500 000 and 2 million Roma throughout Europe.
In honour of the victims' memory and as a sign of deep respect for the Roma survivors of the Holocaust, in 2007 the Romanian President recognised the atrocities suffered by the Roma and awarded the National Cross for 'Faithful Service' 3rd class to three Roma who survived the genocide.
They are free, equal European citizens.
