We did so when we indicated our pessimism and concern regarding the lack of progress on human rights in Cuba, and we did so when we demanded that the prisoners of conscience in Cuban prisons be released.
There are currently around 200 prisoners of conscience, some of them in a very complex situation with regard to their health, and one of them is Guillermo Fariñas, who is in a very grave situation and also on hunger strike.
We also did so when we said that human rights defenders in Cuba needed to be protected, and we did so when we said that the Cuban Government, which had a number of prisoners under its jurisdiction, should be called to account for the death of Orlando Zapata.
However, the European Union's policy with regard to Cuba goes further.
These are the fundamental elements of a policy that is essentially aimed at a single target: the Cuban people, their welfare, their progress, their living conditions and respect for their human rights.
All of us in this room share the same sense of anger and frustration at the death of Mr Zapata, and we should do our very best to make sure that such events do not happen again in Cuba, or in any other country.
This principle is an integral part of our dialogue with all partners in Europe and outside.
Constructive engagement, not a policy of coercion and sanctions, remains the basis of our policy towards Cuba, as underlined in the common position adopted in 1996.
What is at stake is not only that credibility, but also our capacity to be present in Cuba.
Thus, I firmly believe that the way forward is to pursue and deepen the ongoing political dialogue and continue cooperation with Cuba as a tool for improving the lives of the Cuban people.
It did so in order that Parliament, which is the institution at the democratic heart of the European Union, could speak out to condemn the death of an innocent person, and, above all, to express its solidarity with those in Cuba who are fighting, living and dying, like Orlando Zapata, for their freedom and their dignity.
Other prisoners and human rights activists in Cuba are currently on hunger strike, such as the psychologist and journalist Guillermo Fariñas.
The resolution which is proposed by several political groups expresses our deep concern about human rights conditions in Cuba.
Madam President, I would also like to join personally and on behalf of my group in offering condolences for the death of Orlando Zapata.
This event merits the coherent wording of the request that we make in this resolution, which is for those detained for their political motives or motivation in Cuba and anywhere in the world to be freed.
This is part of the agreement.
We also need to ask for these people to be freed immediately, in the case of Cuba, and, above all, recall the delicate situation - as has been mentioned - of some of the people who, following the example of Orlando Zapata, began a hunger strike, especially the case of Guillermo Fariñas.
I believe that Orlando Zapata's death was not in vain and that it will rouse the Cuban people to mass resistance against the communist regime.
When Pavel Wonka died in a communist prison as the last victim of communist terror in my own country, the regime collapsed within a year and a half.
Madam President, my group deeply regrets the death of the prisoner Orlando Zapata.
We must, as quickly as possible, take concerted action to put pressure on the Castro regime and demand the immediate release of those have been sentenced to many years of imprisonment for their views.
This should be a clear signal of our opposition to the violations of human rights, the inhumane treatment of political prisoners and the lack of respect for fundamental civil liberties in Cuba.
It is estimated that there are around 200 other political prisoners in Cuba.
We call on Cuba to directly and unconditionally release these prisoners of conscience and to put an end to this gross violation of human rights.
The European Union must do everything within its power to help improve the human rights situation in Cuba.
Depriving citizens of their freedom is a crime. (ES) Madam President, defending human rights means condemning the avoidable, cruel and unjust death of Orlando Zapata and calling for those who are still in prison to be released.
We must demand the release of all political prisoners.
This is why we should cooperate closely with Washington.
By combined effort, we can develop a long-term strategy on Cuba, which will not start with a blind acceptance of the status quo, but a far-reaching vision of democratic and economic reconstruction. (Applause) (PT) Mr President, this debate demonstrates, once again, that the majority of Parliament is two-faced.
However, we must deplore the terms of this debate and its unacceptable position against Cuba, leaving aside the grave consequences of the economic, trade and financial embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba and the detention in American prisons of five Cuban citizens who only wanted to defend their country.
We must end this kind of policy, this closing our eyes to the reality of a country in which there have never been free elections, and where prisoners of conscience are serving prison sentences of many years in scandalous conditions.
The Spanish Presidency is, today, proposing operating an open policy towards Havana, but an essential condition of this policy must be democratisation of the Cuban regime, release of political prisoners, commencement of dialogue with society, lifting of censorship and restoration of civil liberties.
This should be clearly, openly and firmly said to the government in Cuba.
The European Parliament should reiterate our call for the immediate and unconditional release of prisoners of conscience in Cuba - 55 according to Amnesty International, 200 according to Cuba's Human Rights Commission - and we should express particular concern today for the recent detention and beating of Darsi Ferrer, director of a health and human rights centre in Havana.
Amnesty International itself has not been invited to visit Cuba for 19 years and should be allowed to do so.
I welcomed the review in 2008 of our EU common position leading to the establishment of a political dialogue between Cuba and the EU and re-establishing EC development cooperation, and I welcome the fact that the BBC has recently been given free access to Cuba.
We cannot support the arbitrariness of a power that obstinately refuses to embrace the exercising of the most fundamental freedoms, but it is my belief that we cannot deprive ourselves of the virtues of, and prospects for, a political dialogue, which, now more than ever, remains the most tangible expression of our European values.
The European Union is, without doubt, the only political power capable of convincing the Cubans that the isolation in which they are confining themselves is suicidal and can only lead them, sooner or later, to a tragic fate.
We cannot shirk this responsibility that we have to pursue the dialogue without excluding any of the difficult issues but also without applying - as I believe is all too often the case - double standards. (PL) Liberty will triumph in Cuba.
The European Union cannot help in bringing down the regime and, I suppose, does not want to, but it should want and should be able to help the Cubans after the system has been changed.
We can help with our experience, and after Castro's overthrow, the European Union should help with its experience and its money, so that Cuba never reaches the situation, described by Polish commentator, Marek Magierowski, in which in the future, the descendants of Orlando Zapata, of whom frequent mention has been made in this Chamber, serve rum on the promenades and boulevards of Havana to the descendants of Castro. (CS) I am originally a doctor by profession and I know how difficult it is to save human life.
We must not forget that Cuba, despite its difficult economic situation, is always in the first rank of countries providing assistance to others, for example, in the disaster in Haiti.
We should definitely not take this path. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I truly believe I can declare that we will write a worthy page in the history of this Parliament today and even more so tomorrow when we vote.
We will write things that may seem simple and go without saying but that are actually very important.
Parliament has, quite rightly, seized this opportunity, unlike the High Representative, who I will again remind, as I did this morning, that Cuba libre is not the name of a cocktail: it is a rallying cry that we carry in our hearts, because we want democracy, and we want Cuba to be free. (ES) Madam President, the Spanish Members from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament deeply regret the death of Orlando Zapata, and the situation of the prisoners of conscience, and we very firmly call for their release.
It is an oddity for the European Union to block dialogue with Cuba since, in its external relations, it has negotiated and is implementing agreements with countries that do not meet the minimum standards for civil and political rights and, of course, in terms of social rights either, which Cuba does.
We are therefore going to stop talking and start working for human rights in Cuba, in cooperation with the Cuban authorities, which is what the prisoners of conscience need, rather than condemnations from this House. (ES) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2003 'black spring' raids in Cuba, 75 dissidents were imprisoned, accused of being spies for the United States.
Orlando Zapata was arrested at the same time for disrespect, public disorder and disobedience.
Orlando Zapata, aged 42, was declared a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International.
This House should send a clear message to the Castro regime, especially in the context of the Spanish Presidency.
The Spanish Presidency should, incidentally, be much more active in defending fundamental rights in Cuba.
Over all this time, repression in Cuba has continued.
It says something very logical: support for democratic transition, essentially the same thing that is required by the principles and objectives of Article 21 of the treaty.
Now we are going. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the choices and conduct of the Cuban communist regime create a dilemma for our Parliament: is it possible to carry on holding discussions with this regime?
The death of Orlando Zapata in prison, after 85 days of hunger strike, demonstrates the ideological and oppressive nature of the regime.
If we want to be credible, we must demand that relations with Havana, including development aid, are tied in to specific and verifiable improvements in the human rights situation for all Cuban citizens, beginning with the immediate release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience.
We should not throw down an ultimatum but call for change by one of the planet's most oppressive regimes, a faint imitation of an ideology overtaken by history and fast becoming extinct. (DE) Madam President, we should make a tangible offer to the people of Cuba, and also to the island's regime: in place of the political status quo, we will fund a transition to democracy in Cuba.
In parallel, the United States should end its sanctions, which have helped to cement the regime in place rather than to overcome it.
We, as the EU and as Member States, should support this process in a similar way to how we did in Central Europe.
For these reasons, we also consider that the logical position of the European Union and the path to be followed must be to have a complete normalisation of relations with Cuba by means of the removal of the common position against Cuba, which represents an unacceptable form of discrimination exercised against Cuba and its people.
Above all, we do not accept the immense hypocrisy which affects many of those within Parliament and we strongly denounce the two-faced policy of the European Union. (ES) Madam President, I am addressing my speech to Orlando Zapata's mother and to those suffering along with him in the fight for freedom in Cuba: they are not alone.
Today, if the death of Orlando Zapata is to make sense - if death can ever make sense - we should, at all events, take this legacy very seriously.
Many people will be familiar with the report produced by Human Rights Watch in November 2009 entitled 'New Castro, Same Cuba' which proposed that the embargo should be lifted and that Cuba's dictators should have six months in which to release political prisoners.
It would be interesting to know what the President-in-Office of the Council thinks of this proposal from Human Rights Watch. (SK) Engaging ourselves against human rights violations must be a priority for the European Union in all circumstances.
Orlando Zapata, a Cuban political prisoner, died having staged a hunger strike.
The immediate release of political prisoners is quite difficult.
In this case, we are doing so in relation to Cuba, by saying and demanding that all the remaining prisoners of conscience in Cuba should be released and that human rights should be respected there.
We therefore welcome the majority agreement in this House regarding the human rights situation in Cuba, which I believe can be summarised in one message: although we continue to be open to dialogue with Cuba, the European Union is going to continue to demand that all political prisoners be freed there and that the civil and political rights of Cuban citizens be respected.
At the same time, constructive dialogues that started in 2008 are also giving positive signs.
Written statements (Rule 149) Orlando Zapata Tamayo, arrested in 2003 with a group of 75 other dissidents during a crackdown on opposition groups carried out by the authorities, died following a two-month hunger strike in a Cuban prison.
During the last four years of Raúl Castro's leadership, expectations that the Communist dictatorship in Cuba could become more human have clearly been disappointed.
There are still about 200 political prisoners in Cuba.
