16th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (Geneva, 28 February - 25 March 2011) (debate) The next item is the statement by the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on the 16th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (Geneva, 28 February - 25 March 2011).
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I am pleased we also have the chance this afternoon to debate the work of the UN Human Rights Council and, in a sense, to look at how we can strengthen its overall impact.
I am pleased that the international community sent a strong and united political signal regarding the ongoing human rights violations in Libya.
All that is proof that multilateral institutions can live up to their mandate and can act in what we call real time.
I also emphasised that human rights are universal.
This was highlighted by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms Navi Pillay.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to express my full support for the decision taken by the UN General Assembly on 1 March to suspend Libya's membership of the United Nations Human Rights Council.
I think this sends a strong signal, not only to Colonel Gaddafi and his regime, but also to those countries in the world where human rights violations are frequent and widespread.
In my report on the UN Human Rights Council and the EU's role in it - adopted by this House in February 2009 - I strongly advocated the introduction of membership criteria for this important UN body.
It is important that the EU Member States and the European External Action Service actively engage in the 2011 review of the Council to strengthen compliance with its mandate.
The Council must improve its way of working, in order to work effectively on long-term problems such as we can observe in Iran, Belarus, Russia and elsewhere, as well as to respond rapidly to exceptional situations, such as ... (The President interrupted the speaker) ...
Third, I should like to emphasise the necessity of a more active role for the European Union on the Human Rights Council, where we should take a common position.
Thank you. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, human rights, liberty and equality are far too important for all of us to allow games to be played with them, for them to be put in the balance against powerful interests, and for commercial interests perhaps to take precedence over these values that are so important.
We have seen that the mission to Tunisia made sense and the mission to Egypt made sense.
I would add that, with development cooperation and humanitarian aid, this requirement becomes a little less unrealistic. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, I confess that I was not a great supporter of your taking up the eminent position which you hold today, Mrs Ashton, but I must say that I am, today, pleasantly surprised by at least three things which you mentioned in your speech.
The second thing is that you stressed religious intolerance, or rather the fight against it.
The third matter which I am pleased about as a member of the delegation for relations with Belarus is that you stressed the possibility of intervention in matters relating to Belarus, where fundamental human rights are being violated.
Between the two World Wars - the First World War and the Second World War - 60 million Europeans were killed, leaving aside the people from all other parts of the world who died.
According to a recent edition of The Economist magazine, there is a deficit of 100 million women because of gender-based abortion.
This is not to do with abortion because a woman's life is in danger, or because she is in danger of having a back-street abortion.
Why were there no women yesterday who asked about the missing 100 million women who have been terminated because they were women?
It is wrong and there should be no disagreement in this House on that issue in particular. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Women's Day, you perhaps failed to notice that in the report by your group member, Mrs Nedelcheva, abortion was not a taboo subject, it was addressed, and it was debated and voted on democratically.
It is more than I received from her in relation to my view.
I thank the Members for what they have said. (EL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the session of the Human Rights Council is being held this year in the shadow of events in North Africa and the Arab world in general, which have a great deal to teach us.
This is therefore an opportunity for us to make a fundamental evaluation of the Council, so as to further improve its working methods and emphasise our support for its independence and its role in defending human rights in the world.
Just the fact that such a resolution was even considered shows just how ignorant the international community has been or has wanted to be concerning the situation in Libya.
Over the last few decades, however, around two thirds of the condemnatory resolutions that the Human Rights Council has adopted have concerned Israel, which is nevertheless the sole democracy in that area of the Middle East.
The work of the Human Rights Council will lack credibility unless it changes that work and its ways of working. (ES) Mr President, I do not wish to repeat the important points already made by my fellow Members, so I will simply add that it is good to hear of Lady Ashton's involvement in the Human Rights Council session held at this very important time.
We are all aware of what is happening in North Africa and, above all, in Libya.
I should like to make one final consideration, which is also a question for Baroness Ashton: we have listened to your speeches, as I just said, and largely welcomed them.
This review, which is getting under way now, partly in New York and partly in Geneva, sends out a very complex signal to a world which is changing and has a major problem with the failure of a certain type of human rights policy.
However, we must discuss its effectiveness and, in particular, think about whether it would not be worth having one of the global agencies involved in immediate prevention.
Other human rights abusers also enjoy membership of the Council, including China, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Uganda, where homosexuals are persecuted.
The UNHRC also spends much of its time vilifying our democratic ally, Israel.
They are psychologically torturing the people in Camp Ashraf with 210 loudspeakers blaring propaganda and threats at a high decibel level day and night for the last year.
Firstly, I would like to thank all honourable Members for the energy and passion with which they have conducted this debate.
I reflect on the fact that it is two years since the publication of Ms Andrikienė's report on the development of the UN Human Rights Council, including the role of the EU, and on the resolutions that have been passed since that report was produced.
I would like to thank her for her comments about the work we are doing in the External Action Service and the beginnings of our work to build the new pieces of work on human rights.
I am also very pleased to see that Ms Hautala will be going to the session of the Council.
I think we have all been pushing hard with the review to try to make that review as strong as possible.
Regarding the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we are in favour of a strong resolution and indeed, we have said there ought to be a specific mandate now on this particular situation.
In Pakistan, we made a démarche on 5 March specifically on Article 40, which is the point concerned.
It is important that we continue to make those statements as clearly as possible, when you see terrorism or attacks on any religions, including Christianity.
I have already said that we plan to do something at this session of the Human Rights Council specifically on this because it is so important.
Meanwhile, I would like to thank everyone for this debate and to assure honourable Members that I will do all I can to make the Human Rights Council as effective as possible and - more important even than that - to represent the European Parliament and the European Union on issues of human rights as effectively as I possibly can. (ES) Mr President, I did not really understand Lady Ashton's answer.
I am not sure whether she gave me an answer, whether she said that she would respond at a later date to my question on whether it is the right time to be opening a European Union delegation in Iran given the current human rights concerns, or indeed whether there was no answer.
There will be a discussion in the Foreign Affairs Council and Parliament will also take a view on this.
The UNHRC has to act in time and to react efficiently to the new challenges.
The European Union should not give advice to third countries while in its own territory, namely in Latvia, the government treats Parliament's resolution of 11 March 2004 with scorn and derision.
Until the resolution on 335 000 Latvian non-citizens is implemented, there is no sense in asking for changes in the area of human rights in third countries.
