Migration flows and asylum and their impact on Schengen (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on migration flows and asylum and their impact on Schengen.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, the developments in the Southern Neighbourhood and the ensuing migration flows are posing a serious challenge for the European Union.
Therefore the European Council in March called upon the Council and the Commission to submit before the June European Council a plan for the development of capacities to manage migration and refugee flows as a response.
The conclusions adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 11 and 12 April 2011 and the communication issued by the Commission last week are important steps in this direction.
The Presidency has convened an extraordinary meeting of the Council on Justice and Home Affairs for 12 May in order to discuss the issue of the management of migration and refugee flows.
These discussions will help to prepare for the meeting of the European Council on 21 June which will address the same issues.
Over the past few months the EU and the Member States have made available approximately EUR 96 million of emergency humanitarian aid and we are committed to continue to provide further support as and when the situation requires.
The Council has also invited all Member States to continue their support for UNHCR, the International Organisation for Migration, the Red Cross and all relevant actors, the efforts of which are paramount in helping those displaced as a consequence of protracted violence in Libya.
Those Member States more directly affected by these developments are receiving contributions of funding, equipment and technical expertise; for example the Commission announced earlier that approximately EUR 25 million from emergency funds could be made available for Member States such as Italy and Malta.
Work is under way in the Council and Parliament and some progress has been already achieved, despite the technical difficulty and the politically sensitive nature of this subject.
In general the management of migratory flows in the EU and in individual Member States requires the effective management of borders.
The Council also welcomes the Commission's decision to mobilise supplementary funds needed by Frontex to continue its planned joint operations.
We have urged Member States to provide further human and technical resources as required in support of the agency's operations, including Hermes.
Developments in the southern Mediterranean, in particular in relation to the Tunisian migrants arriving in Lampedusa, have also raised questions about controls at internal borders.
This in turn touches on the issue of freedom of movement within the European Union.
Improving the security and governance of the Schengen area in a time of increased pressure is a means to this end.
The Council will also have a chance to discuss how to continue work on the revision of the Schengen evaluation mechanism to ensure more efficient and uniform implementation of the aquis.
Of course our immediate priority is to deal with the effects of the dramatic events in the southern Mediterranean, but we also have to draw lessons for the future.
In short we need to put in place a strategy for the longer term.
That would be completely impossible without the European Union.
Last week, the Commission presented a communication on a more structured approach to migration, referring, inter alia, to a proposal on a reinforced Schengen governance system.
Of course there are many other proposals, on the reinforcement of Frontex and on a common European asylum system, for example, but I hope we will have other occasions to discuss such issues in greater depth.
The current migration situation in the Mediterranean and the resulting pressures have highlighted some weaknesses and uncoordinated reactions by Member States in the management of Schengen.
In the wake of these exceptional circumstances, we urgently need to reinforce the governance of Schengen and of the external borders.
We need better coordination between the Commission and Member States and, above all, between Member States themselves.
While recent events have provided a spark of urgency in bringing this matter to the table, the Commission is taking this opportunity, through the communication, to address the long-standing underlying inconsistencies and unresolved issues that have provided scope for some Member States to act unilaterally and not necessarily with a European Union perspective.
The Commission has already taken short-term measures to deal with the situation in the Mediterranean.
In addition, the package we put forward last week urges rational reflection, taking into account short-term needs for strengthened external borders as well as a broader approach to asylum and migration.
These issues must also be considered in the light of our neighbourhood policy, trade with North Africa and support for democratisation, as well as Europe's own long-term labour shortages and efforts to boost European competitiveness.
This is and must be a broad range of measures built on the foundations of a strong and successful European policy, defining the best interests of the European Union and its citizens now and into the future.
It also means that all Member States need to take their responsibilities seriously.
When looking at burden sharing, all the pressures and all the contributions need to be taken into account, and this is the very spirit of the European Union: the management of crisis by solidarity and responsibility.
Solidarity and responsibility are the key words in our response.
That is why the Commission's proposal aims to take Union governance of the Schengen system a step further, showing that there can be solidarity between Member States.
I firmly believe that to do so would not only catastrophically undermine what Europe has constructed over the past 61 years, but also sabotage the viability of our efforts to build a prosperous and integrated Europe for the future.
That right has been exercised in the past to help Member States cope with specific short-term exceptional circumstances, for example in the wake of terrorist attacks or in relation to the movement of drugs.
This has always been the case.
It is not a proposal intended simply to deal with short-term events, but there can only be real confidence in long-term solutions if we show that we can effectively address the short-term issues as well.
I am confident that this House will support our approach and our efforts.
We are united in our determination to uphold the principles on which our Union is founded, against any populist temptation.
I count on the support of this House in calling on the Member States to take the necessary decisions quickly.
Our proposals are on the table.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, as has already been emphasised, Schengen is one of the great achievements of our common European project.
Citizens notice it on a daily basis when travelling around Europe.
It must therefore first be made clear in this debate - particularly in view of the debate that has taken place in recent weeks - that we in this House will jointly ensure that this principle and the idea behind it are not derailed by any initiative or any debate.
In recent weeks there have been discussions concerning more than 25 000 refugees from Tunisia who have arrived in the Italian territory of Lampedusa.
Yet a country such as Sweden has been accepting more than 25 000 people a year for years on end.
If courts in the European Union are now ruling that Dublin II is to be ineffective - in other words, that refugees are not to be deported to their states of first arrival - then we must ask the Commission how committed it will be to taking action against those states that are obviously not currently implementing the existing law.
We are talking here about minimum standards in the European Union.
My second point concerns strengthening Frontex, as has already been mentioned.
My third point is that I would ask us all to ensure that those states that were about to join Schengen, namely Bulgaria and Rumania, are not left behind because of the current debate.
We are not asking for lower standards for joining, but if they meet the standards then it is only fair that Bulgaria and Rumania also have the right to become members of the Schengen area.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, I do not share the opinion that the Commission's communication is a good one.
We are not dealing here with a crisis in the European Union.
When 400 000 people travel from Libya to Tunisia, that is a crisis for Tunisia.
I therefore do not believe that what you have presented is good, Mrs Malmström, because you have failed to quote Article 78(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
I would therefore have liked to see you fight it. (The President interrupted the speaker) I would just like to say one thing to you: I live on a border, in my case the German-Dutch-Belgian border between Aachen, Maastricht and Lüttich.
If you can explain to me, Mrs Malmström, how the migration problem in the Mediterranean is going to be managed by my having to show my passport the next time I travel from Aachen to Maastricht - if you can explain that to me, please - then I would be very grateful.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, let us be very open and blunt about this: what we have seen in recent weeks on this issue has been shameful - Italy issuing temporary residence permits to refugees from Tunisia, then France reacting by reintroducing internal border checks, as if the European Union had suddenly ceased to exist.
That is what has been happening and, in my opinion, it has been disastrous not only for Schengen but also for the European Union and its image because the reintroduction of internal border checks contradicts the whole essence of the Union and the basic principles of the Treaty.
I would not go so far as to echo Mr Schulz in calling this a marginal problem - 27 000 Tunisians do not constitute a marginal problem - but he is right to say that, by comparison with, for example, the 350 000 people who fled from Kosovo during the Kosovo war, we are clearly not talking about a migration tsunami.
The communication states that, as a last resort in truly critical situations, a mechanism may need to be introduced - and, as I read it, that means a new mechanism - allowing for a coordinated and temporary reintroduction of controls.
That is the problem with the whole communication because, if this means that the Commission is proposing an additional possibility for the reintroduction of border controls, not provided for in the existing Schengen acquis, I can tell you that our Group will fight such a proposal with all available means, and I hope the entire Parliament will do likewise.
If the intended meaning is that the Commission wants to restrict the current provision allowing Member States to reintroduce border controls, then, Mr Barroso, you can have 100% support from our Group.
All they need to do is to state that they will strengthen the existing provision in the Schengen acquis.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, my Group and I welcome this opportunity to debate the issues and problems which Europe faces in the area of migration and the Schengen system.
Now is the time to focus not only on providing free movement, but also on better guarding the borders of Member States and the EU itself.
There is no doubt that Schengen has been a success in many ways, but Europe is facing challenges which simply did not exist to the current extent when the system was first created.
It is not an unfair assessment to say that the current system is now shown to be flawed and ill-equipped for the new circumstances we find ourselves in.
We are told that 25 000 Tunisians are arriving in Europe and people are talking about a lack of security.
If this is the state of the law in Europe, I say something has gone wrong, and that is why I am asking you now to stop telling us that the problems in North Africa represent a security problem.
The problem in North Africa and the problem of the war in Libya are causing a problem of insecurity for the people living there.
One year on, this codecision has not been concluded by the Council and my work as rapporteur on the resettlement of refugees has now become the job of finding support for this co-decision.
That means the same in Benghazi, Misrata and the Mediterranean: it means saving those who are shipwrecked.
In relation to Schengen, I want to say one thing.
Hungary, which was the first country in the world to be the subject of a coordinated action to resettle its refugees in 1956, has very particular responsibilities - historical responsibilities - to act on this refugee crisis as well.
The problem is that this Treaty is not being complied with, because our external borders are not being effectively monitored.
Member States must therefore once again be given the possibility of protecting their borders without EU interference.
Frontex, for example, should send back ships carrying bogus refugees to their countries of origin instead of playing the role of a sort of benevolent welcome committee.
Mr President, I would also like to protest against the language being used here, against terms of abuse such as 'populists', 'extremists' and the like, for people who simply want to protect the borders of their country.
We rely on the European Commission to achieve that and the European Parliament will be behind the Commission in strengthening Schengen, but if there are two lessons that we have learnt in respect of what happened in recent weeks they are these.
First of all, the internal borders within Schengen depend on a common strategy, a common concern about our external borders.
If our external borders are weak then we will have problems on our internal borders and we need to look at that.
So the pressure went onto the internal borders and therefore the external borders are a common concern.
Secondly, Schengen needs solidarity and solidarity is also about sharing the responsibility - burden-sharing - and sharing responsibility is also relative to the size of the Member State.
So yes, 25 000 people are nothing, they are a drop in the ocean for the entire Union but 1000 people arriving in the southernmost Member State are a lot.
Precisely because they are a common concern, it is the responsibility of all the Member States to ensure that the external borders are strong.
This is precisely what countries such as Bulgaria and Romania have done, and it is precisely why we have helped Greece, by means of a Frontex mission there on the Turkish-Greek border.
Schengen is an area of free movement of people, but it is also a symbol of the best that Europe has done in the last 20 years and, therefore, of the best Europe.
Parliament shares this view and, in this context, I have to say that we are deeply disappointed by the Council's approach.
The truth is that the answer to this migration flow, whether or not it is due to what has happened in North Africa and the Southern Mediterranean, is to come up with legislation involving a common policy on asylum and migration, which Parliament has worked on and which is being blocked in the Council. (PL) Mr President, in spite of the fact that I live a relatively long way away, in Poland, I feel that I understand entirely the concerns provoked by uncontrolled immigration into France or Italy.
French, Italian and Maltese citizens are today faced with the highest bills on account of the fact that controls along the European Union's external borders are simply not working.
I would like the changes to the Schengen Code not to be used as a pretext for limiting the freedom of movement of citizens of the European Union's Member States.
Such proposals have been made for many years in respect of the Polish-German border, to the disadvantage of Polish citizens.
We are being asked to review the freedom of movement of people in Europe and to reinstate national borders in order to cope with the influx of migrants that has supposedly been overwhelming Europe since the revolution in Tunisia.
Since the beginning of 2011, over 1 150 people have died in the Mediterranean and 23 000 people have arrived in Italy.
Meanwhile, more than 700 000 people have fled Libya and sought refuge in neighbouring countries and have found a different kind of welcome there than the kind they would have received in Europe.
The only government within the European Union that has an interior minister from a party which you define as populist is the one that has had the courage to implement the most humanitarian measure: giving 25 000 Tunisian people permission to move freely.
This is because we saw in the flesh that they were not 25 000 criminals, but people who had fled Tunisia.
This shows a truth, namely that in many situations the real 'goodies' are us, the 'baddies'.
We who affirm the need to control immigration and external borders, continue to beg Europe - as Mr Cohn-Bendit has rightly done - to spread what might become 50 000 or 100 000 refugees across its territory, because the people who flee Libya are not criminals.
The recent disastrous stream of migrants from North Africa and the trouble we have been having with the failing Schengen Treaty indicate that asylum and migration policy should be handed back to Member States.
Member States are having trouble with tens of thousands of underprivileged migrants from North Africa, but Commissioner Malmström is preventing them from doing anything about it.
The evil of migration continues its insidious spread.
But no, if you ask Commissioner Malmström, she will tell you that Member States are not allowed to fight back.
The fact that we are experiencing a difficult period with regard to migration pressures cannot be an excuse for weakening one of the major achievements of European integration: namely, the Schengen area.
Schengen is synonymous with freedom of movement, and this reality cannot and must not be reversed, but must be protected, strengthened and developed.
Therefore, I welcome the recognition made by the European Commission, in its communication of last week, of the importance of the Schengen area, and of the challenge of strengthening and developing it.
The problem does not lie in the Schengen rules, but in the way in which the Member States apply the rules without responsibility or solidarity.
However, at a certain moment, we crossed a line ourselves and what you seem to have overlooked is the fact that there are now 25,000 economic refugees in Italy who are going to be given visas.
These are economic refugees and they should be sent back to their countries as soon as possible.
We have heard all the background as to why Schengen is being breached and we have waited since 1999 for any kind of common migration or asylum policy.
So we are very clear in our messages.
Work with us and the Commission to ensure that solidarity means solidarity, burden-sharing means burden-sharing.
The European Commission must indeed defend EU internal free movement and not throw gestures to the likes of President Sarkozy and Prime Minister Berlusconi for electioneering purposes.
Lastly, the Commission must investigate allegations about 61 migrants being left to die, despite their making contact with Italian coastguards, a NATO warship and a military helicopter.
Any authorities that breached international maritime and humanitarian law must be brought to book. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to get to the point here.
We need to grasp that freedom of movement - and that is, after all, the message of the European Union - is something that you cannot simply displace or circumvent at will.
The issue we are facing today stems from the management of the Schengen area in 2011.
Therefore, like all European policies, cooperation in the Schengen area should reflect the real situation to which it applies today, which is different from that of 10 years ago.
This is the context in which the Italian and French Governments' proposals, and the pragmatic and necessary steps outlined by the Commission today in its communication on immigration, should be understood.
The other Member States must therefore be allowed to respond to this breakdown by restoring temporary and strictly regulated border controls.
Such action would be a clear request to the Member States that are responsible for the breakdown to control their external borders better.
These measures will be intrinsically linked to all of the other proposed long-term measures, in preparation for a common migration policy.
Strengthening Frontex and showing greater solidarity are particularly crucial - and I will conclude on this point - in order to support the Member States situated at our external borders.
The situation in the Mediterranean in recent years only serves to highlight shortcomings in the Schengen acquis.
I hope that this proposal will be adopted quickly in order to guarantee better management of our Schengen area as soon as possible, and thus to ensure the security of our common external borders. (RO) Madam President, the exceptional migration flows, such as those from the southern Mediterranean, must not pose a threat to the Schengen area.
Member States must demonstrate solidarity in managing the Schengen area.
The Council must also help strengthen the Schengen area by giving its immediate approval allowing Romania and Bulgaria to access this area.
The so-called problems with the Schengen area are bogus and have nothing to do with the freedom of movement inside the Union, but with the inability or bad faith on the part of some states to face up to immigration-related problems outside the European Union.
The solution for the future lies in improving Europe's migration management system, completing the process of setting up the European Common Asylum System, the legal framework for illegal and legal migration, and enhancing the role of Frontex. (IT) Madam President, in recent weeks massive migration flows have provoked anxiety and reactions among European citizens.
Commissioner Malmström, it seems that you want to reintroduce a Community approach, which is vital.
In keeping with the principles of solidarity and reciprocity that keep this Europe alive, we need to review everything which does not appear to be paying off, to review the Dublin II agreement, as already debated in Parliament, and to share the burdens which each Member State must bear fairly, so that we can all help to keep the dream alive. (IT) Madam President, to question Schengen is, in our view, to question Europe.
If we are sure about which of these we prefer, Mrs Malmström, then during the European Council in June the Commission will have to convince Member States to formulate a European policy on immigration, because Europe à la carte would be tantamount to the collapse of the European dream. (NL) Madam President, in June 2009 I was elected to the European Parliament by European citizens.
Perhaps, the Commissioner could explain once again when the Office will actually be up and running. (ES) Madam President, Mrs Malmström, the problem with the communication tabled by the Commission is that it is a communication that is not credible at the present time, in relation to the long-term problems that the issue raised here involves, or even to the emergency solutions that the European Union should have implemented at this time.
What we instead need is a debate on measures to enhance Frontex so as to provide maximum security at the external borders of the European Union - thereby ensuring freedom of movement - and a debate on speedy asylum proceedings and managed migration, on cooperation to deal with the causes of migration and on readmission agreements.
I am happy to go along with Commissioner Malmström's proposals on this - her proposals are very broad - and I invite the Commission to follow Parliament's lead, rather than the lead set by certain representatives of the Council. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, at a time when, politically, the fundamental principles of cohesion and solidarity in the EU are under attack on all sides, especially from neo-nationalist movements, and we all know who they are, the Commission should, in my opinion, make it its daily task to crush anyone who attacks the symbols of European political unification.
However, legally also, the Commission's proposal conflicts with Articles 78 and 80 of the Convention.
Where a Member State is under severe pressure from immigration, the Convention expressly states that Europe must provide support and solidarity.
You, the Commission, have allowed this debate to happen and you must stop it, right here, right now. (HU) Madam President, Mr Barroso, Commissioner, Minister of State Győri, the Schengen system is one of the most tangible acquis of the European Union.
If European citizens were asked, they would mention free movement without border controls as something important for them in the European Union.
That is why it is important to preserve this system and to do everything to preserve the free movement of our citizens and a Europe without borders.
This must remain our primary goal.
The values, our acquis have to be protected especially when they are challenged.
I find it impossible to accept that two Member States and two gentlemen looking to make a name for themselves have managed to bring the issue of the reintroduction of border controls back to the debating chamber.
Furthermore, Mrs Malmström, I am calling on you to take action and to make it clear that the Dublin II Agreement must be changed in order to facilitate genuine European solidarity in relation to asylum issues and to show that this continent is a cohesive entity and that countries with external borders cannot be left to fend for themselves.
Italy itself can certainly assume responsibility for this and must do so.
We in Europe need to protect not just money and banks, but also refugees, which is why we do not need a new Schengen regulation, but rather a policy on asylum and migration that truly respects human dignity.
A number of policy options have been put forward and Parliament has already expressed itself on them in order to guide the Commission in drafting concrete legislative proposals.
With regard to the constant talk of solidarity, I would also like to express my surprise at the fact that Member States like Denmark, for example, that have been good at tightening up their immigration policy, are supposed to show a large degree of solidarity with countries that have not managed to do the same.
It would make sense to allow countries expressing their national sovereignty by determining their own immigration policy to also reap the fruits of their labours. (DE) Madam President, apparently only about 3 000 of the Tunisian refugees apprehended in Lampedusa are genuine asylum-seekers, while 20 000 or more are economic migrants.
As long as the European Union refuses to admit that it cannot accommodate all economic migrants from every conceivable quarter, hundreds of thousands more will make their way here.
If steps are taken such as mass amnesties for illegal immigrants or if the Schengen Agreement is violated through the use of tourist visas, as was recently the case, then this will inevitably result in many thousands more refugees.
Greece, Italy and Malta are obviously not in a position to secure their external borders and newcomers to the Schengen Group often relax their efforts after accession.
The EU's external borders are riddled with more holes than a Swiss cheese and are also being undermined internally.
If none of these measures produce results, then inevitably one or other country will come up with the idea of withdrawing from the Schengen Agreement. (BG) Madam President, today we need to answer the question about how to preserve and strike a balance between our basic values: freedom, solidarity, justice and, on the other hand, security.
I naturally welcome the greater role given to Frontex and the additional human and material resources for the agency, along with the reinforcement of the Schengen evaluation mechanism, but not the new requirements imposed on Bulgaria and Romania and the obstruction of their membership.
Mrs Győri, after Bulgaria and Romania met all the technical criteria for membership, which was assessed by the Council's experts, please tell us what the Council's position is on the timeframe for admitting Bulgaria and Romania, and whether such a discussion is going on in the Council.
From a foreign policy perspective, I think that our good neighbourhood policy must be linked to the relevant governments fulfilling readmission commitments to their citizens. (DE) Madam President, open borders are an important symbol for Europe.
Of course we must have protections against untrammelled criminality and our security authorities have already found effective alternatives to passport controls.
The possibility of introducing border controls already exists.
What is needed is a common approach, a long-term vision as called for by the Commission, to respond to citizens' concerns on security.
Yes, we have to express solidarity with the Member States that are most exposed to an influx of people, but first of all our solidarity should be with the people who are fleeing tragedy.
Commissioner Malmström, leave Schengen as it is.
Re-read the Treaties, re-read Articles 67 and 78.
Mr Jørgensen and party leader Mrs Thorning-Schmidt both argued for this.
We cannot have credible protection of people who ask for asylum if we do not have a common asylum policy in the European Union.
We cannot have legal migration that works if we do not also work with integration and we cannot fight irregular migration if we do not have a proper and decent return and readmission policy.
This is not a response to one or two Presidents or Prime Ministers - this is something that we have been planning for a long time, and it is all there.
It is something well thought out and it is something that will lead to further legislation and proposals in the light of the European Council meeting in June, which will have as a theme - also planned for a long time - migration issues.
We have about 25 000 Tunisians coming to Europe.
It is much better - and that is why we are working with the Tunisian authorities and Italy in order to see how we can support Italy to create jobs and growth - for these people to find a future in Tunisia, because they are not refugees.
The Commission has invited all Member States to a conference on 12 May in order to discuss relocation and a prolongation of the Malta project in order to assist Malta with the thousands of people who have been going there.
But we will also have the UNHCR there, so we will try to ask Member States to take increased responsibility for the refugees running away from the increasing violence in Libya who are stranded in Tunisia and at the border.
The fact that we can travel from Finland to Malta, from Portugal to Estonia, without ever showing a passport is a wonderful symbol of European integration.
So, in order to assess this situation and to decide on the necessary means, we really need a European approach.
The events of last week have confirmed this.
Member States can also help each other.
We are also working together with you on strengthening Frontex.
That is already provided for today and it has been the case in a few situations - for example a major event such as a terrorist threat.
We need to try to handle it in the short term, but also in the long term.
We need more Europe, not less. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, I would also like to thank you very much for this debate and the contributions I had from the honourable Members of this House.
As to the specific proposals on the table, the Council welcomes the start of the trilogues between the Parliament and the Council concerning the Qualification Directive.
The first is the suspension of transfers under the Dublin Regulation and the second is access for law enforcement under the Eurodac Regulation.
We convened a special meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council for 12 May, where we will be able to have an orientation debate.
It is on this basis that I can tell you what our starting point will be in this politically highly sensitive issue.
We would like to distinguish refugees who are genuine asylum seekers under international law.
We must help them so that we can be loyal to ourselves and to our common values.
The issue of Schengen does not only mean what the Commission communication now contains; the expansion of the Schengen zone is on the agenda.
The Hungarian Presidency clearly separates these two issues.
We already acknowledged in February during the Hungarian Presidency that as far as the technical standards were concerned, Romania was ready, while Bulgaria still had some homework to do.
That is why the Hungarian Presidency has been committed to put demographic issues on the agenda, to help each other see which Member States have been very successful in the field of demographic policy, in the field of family policy.
We would like to improve the situation of families in the European Union.
The reaction to the thousands of refugees who are literally being washed ashore in the south of Europe cannot possibly be considered a valid reason for us to start closing our internal borders, even temporarily.
The migration problem that we are facing in Italy and throughout Europe absolutely cannot be reduced to just the humanitarian emergency, even though that is the most urgent situation to deal with.
The proposals outlined in the Commission Communication of 4 May, including, in particular, a planned extension of the 'exceptional circumstances' under which internal border controls may be restored, leave me somewhat perplexed.
I would like to voice my disappointment over the fact that the Commission is narrowing down the entire issue of migration to the problems in the Mediterranean and the Schengen area.
The situation is critical.
The current political crisis in North Africa and the resulting migration confirm the need for a strong European approach to immigration and asylum.
Immigration is a European challenge that requires not only a rapid and effective solution but also a shared long-term strategy.
Perhaps we are forgetting that according to the latest United Nations estimates, 12 360 migrants have left Libya and arrived in Italy and Malta since last March, but already 700 000 people have fled Libya and Tunisia with the aim of crossing the Mediterranean.
We should not allow the states most exposed to migratory pressure to run the risk of finding themselves even more isolated. , in writing. - (HU) One of the most important challenges for Europe today is how to react to the revolutions developed on its southern borders.
Solidarity is necessary between Member States, but especially with the refugees coming to Europe.
During our debates on strengthening and improving management of the Schengen area, we must at the same time consider the European Union's new migration policy, not only in the context of the situation in North Africa, but also with regard to possible events in the countries neighbouring us to the east.
This was the case after the new Member States were accepted into the EU.
The 20 000 or so migrants were, in the main, economic migrants seeking jobs and better economic opportunities.
However, this should not distract us from dealing with the real problem of how best to cope with the migration of genuine asylum seekers from North Africa, who are or will be fleeing from war-torn countries.
We clearly need improved governance within the Schengen area, as established by the Commission Communication of 4 May.
The demands for the protection of interests on internal borders on account of 25 000 refugees are unprecedented and populistic, and are against everything Schengen stands for.
On 22 December 2007, I helped to chop down the border gate on the Slovak-Hungarian border.
Freedom, the free movement of people and goods, and solidarity with everyone who is in need of solidarity, must remain priorities of the EU.
I am opposed to internal borders, and I therefore expect a strengthening of the Schengen control mechanisms, so as to prevent the populist tendencies of some states, to prevent radicalisation and intolerance, and to consolidate the Schengen system, which is one of the greatest achievements of today's Europe.
The events that are devastating the island of Lampedusa, as the result of the popular revolutions in North Africa, have created a humanitarian crisis, with more than 20 000 Tunisian immigrants arriving between January and April.
The Schengen Agreement, concluded in 1985, and incorporated in the Treaty on European Union, is regarded as one of the greatest expressions of European integration.
The humanitarian crisis we are experiencing today must be resolved, but through the legal means established by the Schengen rules.
The differentiation between people who are entitled to international protection, such as refugees, and economic migrants is extremely important, in order to protect those who really need to be protected.
There are enormous differences between Member States in terms of how they deal with asylum applications and the outcome of these procedures.
With the severe impact from the economic and financial crisis and from the repercussions of the Arab Spring with its far-reaching implications in terms of the requirements for controlling the flows of emigrants and access to oil resources, the EU is looking increasingly divided and likely to abandon one of its most valuable achievements - free movement in the Schengen area.
Limiting European citizens' freedom of movement by introducing some new restrictions, albeit temporary, and imposing on Romania and Bulgaria additional criteria to those in the Schengen Agreement will result in undermining European unity.
The fact that Italy has given these immigrants travel documents allows them free movement within the Schengen area.
At this moment, the boundary states of the Schengen area should accept their responsibility for protecting the common boundary, and take measures for the rapid return of economic migrants to their country of origin.
