There is also talk of a new situation this year, because 2010 is the European year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the best year by far to bring this type of instrument into being.
expansion to all EU states, to all 27 Member States of the European Union; 2.
Spending the funds - and we are talking about half a billion euros per year that can be paid within the regional funds -is, in itself, unjustified, if we do not choose good locations; hence, specifying more detailed criteria.
Of course, none of this will solve the problem of the 9 million Roma, but housing is essential, the physical element is important and the Member States can now set about doing something.
The proposal meets the request of Parliament and of the Council and confirms that the Structural Funds have a role to play, not only by contributing financially but also by promoting an integrated approach to tackling social and economic conditions of marginalised communities.
The proposal specifically targets the Roma population which, in Europe, accounts for 10 million people.
The existing Article 7 applies only to housing interventions in urban areas, while the amendment proposes that housing interventions also be allowed in rural areas.
Recital 6 of the proposal now includes such desegregation measures as examples of actions which should go along with housing interventions.
The implementation of these policies is not an easy task.
In this context, I would like to remind you that a horizontal solution of transitional provisions relating to comitology has, in principle, been found between the three institutions.
The aim of the Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission concerning the implementation of Article 291 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to avoid raising institutional discussions on each individual file during the interim period pending the entry into force of a new comitology framework regulation.
The Commission therefore regrets the introduction of the recital, but will not block - for this reason - the agreement in first reading between the colegislators.
It was unthinkable, both for the members of my political group and for our committee, that the old Member States should not be included in this extension to the scope of the regulation, because - as we all know - the housing problems faced by marginalised social groups, especially the Roma, are a serious issue, with social repercussions in all the Member States of the European Union.
We believe that the report and the extension of the scope of housing interventions to the entire European Union strengthens cohesion between all the regions, with no discrimination between old and new Member States.
Mr President, 2010 is the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, and it is in this context that we shall adopt, I hope, the report by Mr van Nistelrooij, which represents a major advance in the improvement of the living conditions of disadvantaged populations, insofar as it makes eligible for European aid, via the ERDF, projects for renovating and building housing and for combating energy poverty in all the Member States.
Parliament will have to evaluate the projects carried out before these funds are renewed in 2013 and will have to be involved in drafting the future regulation laying down the eligibility criteria, particularly in relation to transparency, so as to ensure that every single vulnerable population actually receives these funds and is afforded a dignified existence in the long term.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, Amendment 1 of this housing resolution proposes to extend use of the European Regional Development Fund to all Member States, not just those joining in 2004.
The EU has 27 Member States divided up into 271 regions.
In every fourth region, per capita GDP is 75% lower than the average for the 27 EU countries.
According to the 2007 South-West Observatory Report for the south-western counties in England, the region's population has been increasing rapidly, entirely because of migration.
The objective of the actions taken by national and local authorities must be sustainable social inclusion of these communities, both in towns and rural areas.
This is because the Roma population is the largest marginalised community in Europe, with a high level of cross-border mobility within Europe.
For these reasons, it is a good idea to allow ERDF finances to be used for housing in all EU countries.
The new provisions stipulate the need to promote some urban development projects for areas threatened by physical deterioration or social exclusion, as well as for marginalised communities.
While it is already possible for the European Fund for Regional Development to intervene in order to assist marginalised groups living in cities, rural areas have hitherto been virtually excluded from this type of intervention and must make do with payments from the financially weaker Fund for Rural Development.
The provisions do not cover rural areas, which means that many people from marginalised social groups living in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will not benefit from the proposed solutions.
This stems from the fact that in the new Member States, the difference in standard of living between rural and urban areas is much greater than in Western Europe.
In this part of Europe, unfortunately, material status is still a visible barrier to access to education, employment and participation in cultural life.
I welcome the opportunity to reiterate that the length of membership of the European Union must not be a criterion in the attribution of structural funds and that this criterion must be immediately abandoned.
However, this Parliament should not forget that there are many people in ordinary communities, either in the inner cities or in rural areas, who live in very poor housing and who find it impossible to access decent housing.
And, while they are intended to promote fair competition across the European Union, they are having unintended negative effects on the development of badly needed social housing in marginalised communities, mainly because of the difficulty of obtaining land in what was, until recently, a speculators' market.
Northern Ireland has been seriously affected by this and last year, the problem meant that replacements had to be found in the social housing programme for 500 out of 1 500 houses that were planned.
In addition, no differentiation must be made between the Roma population and other social groups in similar situations when this financial support is allocated.
I think we will count on the national and regional authorities to make good use of these new facilities.
The social groupings in question must also be involved in the implementation, because we will then arrive at a better product and a more sustainable result.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I strongly believe the Commission was right to propose amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 on the European Regional Development Fund as regards the eligibility of housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities.
