Outcome of the summit of 7 May 2010 and the ECOFIN meeting - What is the political relevance of the EU 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis? - Consequences of the financial and economic crisis on the EU 2020 strategy and its governance - What is the relevance of the EU 2020 strategy in the framework of the current financial and economic crisis? (debate) The next item is: the joint debate on mechanisms for strengthening economic order, the Council and Commission statements: Outcome of the summit of 7 May 2010 and the ECOFIN meeting [2010/269(RSP)], the oral question to the Council and the Commission: What is the political relevance of the EU 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis? - B7-0213/2010), - B7-0214/2010), the oral question to the Council: Consequences of the financial and economic crisis for the EU 2020 strategy and its governance - B7-0301/2010), the oral question to the Council and the Commission: Political relevance of the EU 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis - B7-0219/2010), - B7-0220/2010).
There was an immediate reaction from the Member States and the central banks in order to prevent the financial system from collapsing, and there was also a reaction in relation to the real economy.
We are now no longer talking about private finances, but about public finances.
Firstly, there was a crisis of financial stability in public accounts as a result of very marked deficits.
Moreover, this clearly affected the whole of the euro area, and therefore became a problem affecting not one, two or three countries, but the stability of the whole of the euro area.
As we have already said, the short-term measures involve an injection of public money and coordination by the European Union: what is known as the European Economic Recovery Plan, backed by the Commission; a plan that coordinates this immediate action, this shock treatment that the Member States are adopting in order to limit the damage done by this huge crisis, but not make it disappear.
One manifestation of this short-term action is undoubtedly the aid to Greece, which had already been warned by the Commission months before about a difficult situation in its public accounts.
The Council is making a series of recommendations to Greece in relation to Article 126(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Council and the Commission are monitoring developments there.
Not only are recommendations being given in relation to the liquidity of its public accounts, but also regarding structural reforms in the pensions system and the need to undertake reforms in the health system.
Then came 23 April, when an action mechanism was adopted regarding Greece.
There are structural problems in the European economy; structural problems that were ultimately responsible for weakening Europe in the face of a highly volatile situation of extreme financial turbulence.
With this in mind, a task force has been created, which is going to meet for the first time this Friday, 21 May, chaired by President Van Rompuy.
This relates to all the more long-term measures, in which we also need to include the debate that is beginning in the EU about tax on benefits in the financial sector and a tax that even the G20 is beginning to talk about, which is a tax on financial transactions, which is, in turn, being debated in the EU.
This is something that Mrs Harms and Mr Cohn-Bendit emphasise in their question.
The International Monetary Fund was given the task of conducting a study on a tax on international financial transactions.
It was discussed in the European Council in March, the Commission proposed it on 1 April, and it was also discussed in the Ecofin Council.
Yesterday, for example, at the EU-Latin America Summit in Madrid, a reform of the financial system was also proposed.
So I think we can say - to conclude, Mr President - that it is true that the crisis has clearly demonstrated the shortcomings of the European monetary union in the absence of economic union, something that is provided for in the treaties but does not exist in reality.
These measures adopted in the short, medium and long term by the EU are clearly taking the Union along a path towards economic union.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I welcome this debate on the crisis response of the European Union and on the immediate and longer-term challenges of economic governance we are facing.
Ten days ago, the European Union took bold and necessary decisions to safeguard financial stability in Europe.
Secondly, we agreed to accelerate fiscal consolidation in those Member States where it is most urgently needed.
This is our responsibility in relation to our citizens, and we are delivering in very concrete terms.
Yesterday, coordinating and managing on behalf of the euro area Member States, the Commission delivered EUR 14.5 billion for Greece, which the IMF has complemented with EUR 5.5 billion.
The European Central Bank has also taken extraordinary measures to tackle the attacks we have recently seen on the euro.
Beyond that, our Member States have understood the paramount importance of fiscal consolidation to ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus, preconditions for sustainable economic growth.
Last week, Spain and Portugal presented significant new fiscal consolidation measures which are important and difficult but, at the same time, are necessary steps in order to reduce the ballooning public deficits in 2010 and 2011.
The Commission will present a comprehensive assessment of the adequacy of the new targets and measures in the course of the next two weeks.
Let me underline that a faster reduction of the public deficit is indeed an essential component of the financial stability package that was agreed on 10 May by Ecofin.
It is equally important that both countries adopt structural reforms that will contribute to increased potential growth, especially reforms of the labour markets and pension systems.
While accelerated fiscal consolidation is an immediate priority throughout Europe, at the same time, we need to coordinate our economic and fiscal policies by applying differentiation among the Member States.
Of course, it would be a mistake to stop our efforts here.
Let us recall that the first 10 years of the euro have been a success story: that is the starting point.
This is precisely the reason why last week, on 12 May, the Commission presented an ambitious set of proposals to reinforce economic governance in Europe.
We want to strengthen preventive budgetary surveillance, address macro-economic imbalances and set up a permanent and robust framework for crisis management.
I count on Parliament's support for these important proposals.
The essential cornerstone of reinforcing economic governance is to coordinate fiscal policy in advance, in order to ensure that national budgets are consistent with the jointly-agreed European policies and obligations, so that they will not put at risk the stability of the euro area as a whole and that of the other Member States.
In the EU, in particular in the euro area, we know only too well that national decisions have an impact beyond national borders, and therefore there will have to be coordination at European level before those national decisions.
The divergences in competitiveness and the gap between the surplus and deficit countries of the euro area has widened in the past 10 years.
This has been at the root and origin of why the financial crisis hit the EU so hard, especially some of our Member States.
Instead, it aims at rebalancing economic growth in Europe as a whole.
That is the way to play as a European team for the benefit of the whole of Europe.
To discourage anyone from even trying our vigour, we need a permanent and robust framework for crisis management for the euro area Member States.
The temporary mechanism established on 10 May is a bold first step in that direction, but for the medium to long term, the Commission will propose a more permanent mechanism, subject to strict policy conditionality and, of course, drawing on the lessons of recent experience.
That is why we must make the mechanism so unattractive that no leader or country is voluntarily tempted to resort to it.
To conclude, these Commission proposals pave the way for a quantum leap in economic governance in Europe, but I also want to draw your attention to another immensely important decision - on the same day we proposed these measures - namely, the proposal for Estonia to become a member of the euro area on its own merits.
This proposal sends an important signal to all that the euro area will withstand pressure with self-confidence, and sustainable economic and fiscal policies will bring fruit for Member States.
The Heads of State or Government have finally begun to deal with the problems by deciding, 10 days ago, on a support plan for our currency, the euro.
This is a plan which accurately reflects the scale of European solidarity, thus contradicting all those who doubted it, but which is still inadequate and must be accompanied by measures to reduce our national budget deficits and measures for obtaining agreement among the 27 on the social and fiscal budgets.
This applies to both right-wing and left-wing governments.
I am very sorry that the German socialists were lacking this courage when they voted in the Bundestag on the European aid plan.
The first lesson: we must know the true state of national public accounts, just as we know the true state of EU public accounts.
Second lesson: the 27 must concentrate on their budgetary policies very early on in proceedings.
The Commission asked for this last week.
Moreover, what is true of national budgets is also true of social and fiscal policy.
This cannot continue either.
The euro will only be viable if we collectively give ourselves the resources to make it so.
We must move on from short-term policies, designed to prevent our national governments from falling a few points in opinion polls, to medium- and long-term plans, which are also being demanded by our entrepreneurs so that they can invest and recruit.
The main problem amongst our fellow citizens, which is raised at all our meetings at the moment, is whether their savings are still safe.
It is only in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2020 strategy will have any meaning.
I said this yesterday, and I say it every day: if savings have to be made in all our Member States, then we too, as Members of Parliament and European civil servants, will have to lead by example, or else we will lack credibility.
That is all that I have to say, and I am still hoping - I have experienced a few very serious and very deep crises - that this crisis can at least serve as a new starting point for Europe and its citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place against the backdrop of a very serious situation which represents a threat to the European Union.
The system is wrong.
That is the reality of this economic system, which has now reached its limits and which must be put on a tight leash.
This is what you have said, Mr López Garrido and Mr Rehn.
That is all well and good, but we are the ones who are reacting, we are the ones who have been driven to action and, in my opinion, we are reacting far too late.
It is just that when you are here, it is carnival every day that Parliament is in session.
We have allegedly created an economic and monetary union.
In Europe, we have a patchwork quilt of economic policies.
A total of 16 sovereign states are failing to coordinate their economic policies, some of which are inconsistent with one another, within a single currency area.
Arnold Schwarzenegger and his beautiful state of California are completely bankrupt, but that does not affect the dollar at all, because the economic policy of California forms part of the single currency area of the United States.
People are realising that this economic system has failed and they no longer have any confidence in it.
This three-way contradiction between the crisis of confidence in our economic system and in our state institutions and the retreat of many state institutions into taking a national approach, rather than looking for solutions in the international structures, is a mixture which puts the EU as a whole at risk.
Therefore, we need economic governance and we also ultimately need the strength to implement our own regulations.
Mr President, I do not think that either nationalist or Marxist rhetoric is going to provide us with the solutions we need for this crisis we are going through. (Applause) What we are currently experiencing, Mr President, is not, in my opinion, a monetary crisis in the Union, it is not even a crisis of our single currency; rather, it is a crisis of EU governance.
For my part, I therefore have three messages to send out this morning in this debate.
The first message, Mr López Garrido, is addressed to the Council.
We could perhaps ask the Spanish Presidency to invite the Members of the Council to show a little discretion in relation to the euro crisis, because each time a solution is found to help the euro, one or other Head of State or Government is compelled to come forward to say his piece, and to sabotage, in fact, the solution that has been found.
I believe, Mr Rehn, that you took some brave decisions last Wednesday which are a step in the right direction, but that the Commission must go further.
That is what must be done.
We must not wait for a working group of the Council to tell us what must be done; it is up to the Commission to take this initiative.
Secondly, I believe that this package must also integrate a convincing 2020 strategy.
The third thing which definitely must be done is to create a European monetary fund to replace the stability mechanism which was created, because that mechanism, as you say yourself, Mr Rehn, is not going to be up to the job.
We want you to be ambitious and courageous enough to put an ambitious package comprising these four points on the negotiating table within both the Council and Parliament. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Group has once again decided to take a positive approach to the financial stabilisation mechanism which was agreed at the weekend of crisis talks in Brussels almost two weeks ago.
We are combining our support with a clear commitment to a more united economic and financial policy.
This is nothing new for my group.
However, along with this commitment, Mr Rehn and Mr López Garrido, we want to see a serious decision being made not to continue simply combating the symptoms of the crisis, but instead to tackle the overall challenge that it represents.
As we see it, we have been trying to cure the symptoms since 2008.
We have been attempting to save the banks since 2008, when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt.
I would like to say once again that we must be honest with the citizens of Europe.
However, we must get out of this cycle of rescuing the banks, which has cost us billions upon billions.
We no longer know where the money is coming from and we are only daring to take tiny steps towards state regulation of the financial markets, going by the agreement in the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (Ecofin).
The central aspect of what we are calling for today is that the state must return to the financial markets and take a very determined approach.
It is true that the banks are a vital part of the system, but there must be something very rotten in this system if our states can repeatedly be brought to the brink of disaster and the political system allows this to happen.
I would like to summarise the situation very briefly.
There are indications that some of the EU Member States are moving in the right direction, but we believe that there should be a ban on toxic assets and short selling throughout the EU, that hedge funds should be kept under very tight control, and that we must stop talking about introducing a tax on financial transactions and actually do something about it.
We need this tax, among other things, in order to refinance what we are doing with public money.
The participation of banks and speculators must no longer be merely a matter for soapbox speeches.
I am very familiar with this term in a German context.
As I have said, using a battering ram against the social security system would definitely be the worst thing that the European Union could do at this point.
If we were to give up on our climate policy and sustainable development now, as some people have indicated, we would really be implementing the devil's plan.
However, I am convinced that we will only emerge from this crisis if we can break down the taboo of state intervention, the role of the state and the need for intelligent taxes. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, it has sadly become a characteristic of some of those who speak in support of the European Union to believe that the solution to every problem is more integration.
In the ECR, we want the euro to be a success for the sake both of those who choose to join and of those in the wider European economy, but this requires Member States to take their responsibilities seriously, to be honest with each other, and to fulfil their agreed commitments.
It seems that, for some, a centralised European economic 'government' is indeed the ambition, but this would not address the problems we face: it would be bad for our citizens, for our Member States and, I say, for the European Union itself.
Mr President, the most recent Council meetings indicate that far-reaching changes are under way.
Until now, the parliaments have had little say in the matter and we must put a stop to this.
These governments have saved casino capitalism using taxpayers' money.
Somewhere, they managed to find EUR 750 billion.
However, the European Union must be more than just a free internal market with a single currency.
Persisting with the failed Stability and Growth Pact has relatively little to do with the sensible coordination of economic policy.
It is time to safeguard the social state by means of the EU institutions, not to dismantle it.
The Greeks and other nations are afraid because they can see the measures that are being taken on the social side.
It is time to fight for the harmonisation of social standards at a high level.
We are making very slow progress in combating the crisis in the financial markets.
Commissioner, I should like to take this opportunity to thank you personally for your hard and effective work in connection with the economic crisis in Greece.
I should also like to thank all the parties in Parliament for the support and solidarity they have shown Greece.
This is a proposal for a permanent instrument for economic governance; we do not need to set up new mechanisms and so forth and it can be adopted very quickly.
I have two ad hoc proposals for Greece: the International Monetary Fund could extend the repayment period for the loan to Greece from three to five years.
If the same extension were adopted by our European lenders, it would be much easier and more realistic for Greece to repay its debt and this would be a good message for the markets.
The second proposal is this: the amount in aid to Greece could be used to repay our bonds.
However, we cannot try and stimulate growth at the same time.
Mrs Tzavela, I did not interrupt you because you are from Greece, and this issue is very important, but because you spoke for more than one minute.
I would like to say, Mrs Sinclaire, that I am watching the time.
The Member who was speaking a moment ago ran over by the longest, but I allowed this because she represents Greece, and it was also the opinion of someone who lives in Greece, and this matter seemed to me to be important.
As a rule, I do not allow speakers to exceed the allotted time, but I think we are all agreed that Mrs Tzavela's statement was particularly important for us. (ES) Mr President, we had to be on the brink of the economic abyss in order for the Heads of State or Government to understand that the way forward is not more nationalism but more Europe.
Therefore, our group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), fully supports the rescue package on which the Council and the Commission have decided.
That a decision on a package to the tune of hundreds of billions of euro was unavoidable in a single weekend is a wake-up call to the fact that stricter and more consistent budgetary rules are crucial and must be strengthened.
All of us in Parliament want a Europe with sustainable economic growth, sufficient jobs for our citizens and healthy businesses.
Commissioner Rehn deserves our support, and I think it irresponsible that our fellow Members from the S&amp;D Group are refusing that support.
As far as our group is concerned, Commissioner Barnier must work energetically on proposals to curtail irresponsible behaviour on the financial markets. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wortmann-Kool is wrong in two respects.
We want to take precautions, that is our objective.
You rightly say that we must prevent the farm from catching fire in the first place and that is the decisive point which I would like to discuss.
If that sounds like Marxism to Mr Verhofstadt, to us it is a question of social security and social policy.
However, that is simply not of interest to some people.
The question is how you intend to get people to accept the economic measures and the strict budgetary requirements which you rightly propose when people begin to realise that Europe and the euro area are characterised by a growing gap between rich and poor.
This is unacceptable and this is why there are more protests against the necessary measures than would normally be the case.
That is absolutely the right strategy, but your proposal, Mr Rehn, does not include any specific measures for bringing this about.
You spoke today about the reform of the labour market and the pension system.
This is the right approach, but it is not enough just to reform the labour market and pensions.
If we do not develop our infrastructure and if we do not use all the means at our disposal in the Europe 2020 strategy, including green technologies and so on, we will not succeed in achieving this objective.
Political leaders in our countries have been selling the idea that EU membership should be seen as a guarantee against hard economic times, but reality has now proven differently.
The euro is constantly attacked from all sides despite all the efforts made, and we all know that fresh money is only a quick fix for a much deeper problem.
This is an exceptionally serious situation and we need exceptional answers.
Because this imbalance leads to daunting divergences between Member States, and to ensure financial discipline at European level, we need good governance, sanctions and compliance mechanisms.
In Romania, for example, the government is cutting pensions and salaries instead of reducing bureaucratic expenses or money for political clients.
Yes, we need to balance our budgets.
This requires responsible management of expenditure, and enough has been said about that for the moment.
But, no, Members of the Council - and this is, I might add, addressed above all to the gentlemen Members, and not so much to the female Members - it is a sham to let people believe that we are going to meet the current challenges solely by reducing expenditure, as that will most certainly plunge Europe into recession, that will most certainly destroy the social fabric, this social cohesion that is part of the EU's identity.
Therefore, if we wish to bring public finances back into balance, which is the only option, and also be able to invest - because this is not simply a matter of reducing deficits, but of investing in our future - we will have to find new income streams.
This therefore means breaking another taboo, ladies and gentlemen: not the tax taboo but the taboo of sovereignty, which you, Members of the Council - and, unfortunately, with the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - will defend to the death.
Finally, with regard to financial supervision, I should like to encourage ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the President-in-Office just asked whether there was an exit strategy from this crisis, and I would say yes, there is: it is called fiscal conservatism.
The public sector was out of control for many years.
Even in good times, the German Government of Mr Schröder went through the 3% ceiling, and Greece, of course, broke all the records, because the Greek political class is utterly unable to manage money.
Today, a great deal of money is being put on the table, but this is actually designed to reassure the financial markets, whereas to the people you promise only pain.
I do not agree with the European Commission expecting to review and audit the accounting of Member States' budgets before the national parliaments: farewell to sovereignty.
I disagree with an economic and financial strategy that fails to contemplate specific needs. (DE) Mr President, I am opposed to the Council's unacceptable anti-European approach.
You are complaining about the crisis and you are now introducing an economic protectorate, while you bear the central responsibility for many of the causes of the crisis.
This applies to the Member States, but also to the Commission and to us.
Thirdly, when the European Union establishes objectives and rules for itself and agrees on procedures and sanctions, the Commission must not be dependent on the agreement of the Member States in order to be able to meet its obligations.
Fourthly, I would like to call on the Council to end the Eurostat blockade.
Fifthly, you have mentioned hedge funds and we have not yet come to a decision on this subject.
The Commission should quickly submit a proposal for the European transaction tax.
Mr Schulz has referred to the highly critical speculative products and credit default insurance and to the damaging practice of short selling, which brought Greece to the brink of disaster and could represent a major problem for Portugal and many other countries.
I have been asking this question in the capital of my own country over recent weeks and months and it has taken you months, in fact until yesterday evening, to introduce a ban on the damaging practice of short selling.
I ask myself why we have to wait until things have gone wrong before making use of the appropriate legislative measures, which are already in place, to protect the people and the economies of Europe.
We in the European Parliament are presenting concrete proposals.
In the context of regulating the supervisory bodies and the discussion about hedge funds, we have proposed that we should take appropriate measures on a European level and we will make the same resolution on derivatives, if you, Mr Langen, do what you are always saying.
There is a lot of talk about economic governance, but perhaps we should concentrate on the issue of the actual governance of the European Union, which has been lacking recently.
In my opinion, we should set two targets.
Yes, of course the debt has to be reduced, but we must reduce it in a realistic and credible way and, at the same time, we must obtain those margins for manoeuvre and implement the reforms needed to prepare for the future.
That is why it is vital to create synergies between the national budgets of Member States - I would have preferred the Commission to have expressed it in these terms - which is why it is probably vital to reform our tax system and to direct it more towards development and growth and to harmonise it.
This is the added value which the European Commission can provide at the present time.
Mr Verhofstadt was saying that you had a right to take the initiative.
In the current situation, you have a duty to take the initiative in this area. (NL) Mr President, it is to be feared that the support package for Greece will not work.
After all, no country in the world has ever managed to reduce a 14% budget deficit to 3% in three years.
Countries failing to do those things must leave the euro area. (EL) Mr President, the biggest unemployment march in the last ten years is due to take place in Greece tomorrow.
Mr Rehn, it is major hypocrisy to call this tripartite financing mechanism a 'rescue and solidarity' mechanism.
For six months, we have been suggesting that you make use of Article 122 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This mechanism must be debated by the European Parliament, in accordance with Article 218 of the Treaty of Lisbon; we need a real debate on solidarity policy.
However, Spain is now following Greece with a deficit of 11% in GDP.
The EU bureaucracy immediately looks around to find someone to blame, but the fact is that it is this bureaucracy that is responsible for the crisis because it brought countries into the eurozone in the knowledge that their economies were not up to speed - or do we employ 1 000 people in Eurostat just to be a data collector?
The EU now demands cost reductions, but is it realistic to expect the cost of the public sector in Greece to be reduced if 20% of the working population is employed by the state and 50% of SMEs have the state as its only client?
The fact is that the European currency simply cannot be a hard currency in the long term, because it has brought together very different national economies, some of which are in a weak position, under the same umbrella of monetary policy.
However, the sort of centralisation which takes the form of Brussels exerting budgetary authority over all the Member States would, in my opinion, be a massive and improper intervention in the sovereignty of the Member States.
The crisis must not be used as an excuse to introduce more EU centralisation, which is something that many people have wanted since before the Treaty of Lisbon came into force.
If we really want to learn lessons from the current crisis, we may have to find a quite different structure for European monetary policy.
This may be something like a European hard currency union in a core Europe, in which the national economies that do not meet the convergence criteria would exclude themselves from the euro area.
We in Parliament will also have to consider whether, by increasing our staffing budget and raising the secretarial allowance, we are sending out the right signal at a time when savings are being introduced across the board. (DE) Mr President, on the day that we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Schuman plan, on 9 May 2010, the Council formally laid the Monnet method to rest, with the help of the Commission.
It has not come up with any ideas or any incentives.
However, we should also point out that all the states in crisis in Europe, all of those which blocked the new moves, including Great Britain, Hungary, Portugal and Spain, have socialist governments. (ES) Mr President, the current session of the European Parliament began a year ago, and there has not been a single plenary sitting in which we have not discussed the crisis.
It is true that there is nothing more important for us to talk about than a crisis that has destroyed 20 million jobs in Europe.
We have seen extraordinary decisions at the same time: the communication from the Commission, the extraordinary decisions of the Council of Ministers last week and, of course, the 2020 strategy.
I should firstly like to say to the Spanish Presidency that in June, you are going to be responsible for the adoption of the Europe 2020 strategy.
You have our support.
However, this must be approached very carefully or it will provide all the populists and all Europe's critics with a golden opportunity.
If rules such as the Stability and Growth Pact and the Maastricht criteria had been adhered to, we would not have the level of debt crisis that we currently have in many Member States.
I find myself in the very strange situation of drawing parallels between the behaviour and financial skills of our Member States' governments and those of our investment banks.
In the past two years, the aid to these institutions from the Netherlands alone has led to a EUR 2.5 billion increase in interest expenditure.
EU 2020 should lay the bill at the right door.
That is why I should like to point out that the continuing global economic disorder is due mainly to the creation of large unwanted reserves at global level and should be combated by efforts to stimulate growth at European level, so that we can address this crisis rationally. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Verhofstadt complained that nationalist and Marxist rhetoric are not enough to lead us out of the crisis.
Imagine the response of the markets in the coming hours, considering that just minutes ago, the euro collapsed again.
The EUR 750 billion rescue package was important but we have realised that it is not enough.
Today, we need a strong political initiative that can guide the market to allow for greater mobility of the resources.
The monetary and budget policies have proven inadequate in assuring productivity and competitiveness.
Mr President, Parliament has a great responsibility: to reinforce the capacity of Member States to leave intergovernmental policy behind and launch European spirit anew through its own independence. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European governments are being driven by the markets.
The rules were broken very quickly and right at the start, even by the larger Member States.
The Commission must take action in this area.
The European Union is weak because its budget is too small, and it does not have enough money for specific measures.
Nobody could have failed to see that, after 50 years of integration, increasing national selfishness was putting us at risk of 50 years of disintegration.
Nobody could have failed to see that we were trying to create citizenship without the citizens, to conduct politics without the voters, to establish faith in the ideal of a rule of law without complying with it.
The chain of solidarity in the Union is currently being tested, and we all know that the strength of a chain is that of its weakest link.
Of course, we have to respect the Stability and Growth Pact, which must be reformed.
Yet the task facing us now is to regain the trust of our citizens, which means ensuring growth and jobs.
It would now be difficult for us to make that statement without qualifying it, because the crisis has shown that the economic and monetary union is an unfinished project.
Second, it is important to understand that there is no strong currency if the economy is weak: the forecast of 1% growth for the European Union is unsustainable both in terms of its demographic makeup and in terms of fighting unemployment; and the 2020 strategy is nothing more than a collection of good ideas if there are no means for realising it.
We have been living beyond our means, especially in some countries.
The decision to establish a euro area stability support mechanism is an important step, there can be no doubt about that.
However, a crisis management mechanism is not enough; we need to tackle the causes at the root, not only at national, but also at European level.
Commissioner, the proposals to strengthen economic cooperation which you presented on 12 May may help to construct a more cohesive Europe, with fewer macro-economic imbalances, subject to two preconditions: firstly, that they will not be limited to the inflexible application of the Stability and Growth Pact and, secondly, that they will fully incorporate specialised targets for viable growth and employment within the framework of the 2020 strategy. (PT) Mr President, several colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) have already drawn a very complete picture of the situation.
I think that what is needed now is mention of the role of the Member States.
The fact is that the national government of each Member State also has a role here as regards imposing the requirements and conditions for strengthening the single currency, and moving this project of monetary and economic integration forward.
This is true for Portugal and it is also true for other Member States that are in difficult situations.
We, as MEPs, are also responsible for defending in our countries the measures that are necessary in order for the euro to come out stronger, and for this integrated area and this dream - the dream of the PPE Group and the dream we all share - to become a reality.
We are talking about some costs, guarantees and so on for the loan mechanism and control of the financial markets.
In the European Parliament, we are highly conscious of the fact that many Member States currently find themselves in an extremely tricky economic situation, often with difficult national budget problems.
On the other hand, it is clear that, in this situation, the EU can help by taking measures that are important for the economic recovery of the Member States and that will give a new boost to growth and job creation.
The EU budget should therefore focus on areas where the EU can provide added value - European added value - and where the budgets of Member States and of the EU can complement and support one another.
That also means, however, that the Member States cannot give the EU significant additional responsibilities without providing the necessary resources.
The European Monetary Fund and the other institutions proposed in the resolution under negotiation are moving in the right direction.
However, if it is to provide real incentives, the Fund needs to take account not only of the absolute size of the debt and deficit, but also of the speed of reduction of the debt and the deficit.
Our real problem, and I say this to the left wing, is that 4 billion people in the developing world living on EUR 200 a month have discovered capitalism and are claiming global resources and markets from us, the rich, who live on EUR 2 000 a month.
As we have chosen the path of more regulation, it should go hand in hand with increased simplicity and reduce the complexity of financial markets.
What is also clear is that fiscal and monetary policies are not substitutes for structural reforms.
Without doubt, the European winning strategy has to be based on fiscal tightening, but its focus should be on innovation, the only way to boost productivity and growth in a sustainable way.
The European Commission and the European Parliament should regain their strategic role and go for brave European solutions.
A political agenda could include concerns that the euro could, in future, replace the dollar as the pricing currency for oil, for example; a business and economic interest agenda could include simply amassing greater power and wealth by destroying sovereign rights, including shared sovereign rights, within the European Union.
When we did not police these people in the past, look where they led us.
So do not have just one prong on your fork: it is time to have two prongs. (HU) The Europe 2020 strategy is a very important strategy, especially now, at a time of growing financial and economic crisis.
This crisis has spotlighted such fundamental questions and negative processes that if we do not integrate these into our strategy, this may jeopardise the success of our economic policy.
We must not allow the prestige of the euro to be damaged, but must do all we can for the sustainability of monetary union.
We need to help and encourage those countries that have not yet introduced the single currency.
In devising the EU 2020 strategy, policies that guarantee sustainable development must be given a major role.
From the perspective of our long-term energy security, nuclear energy is the solution that can guarantee a sufficient amount of energy with the lowest levels of carbon dioxide emissions and, therefore, we must place great emphasis on the related question of the safe storage and production of fuel.
It is only by doing this that we can ensure that, in addition to a monetary union, the all important economic union will also be achieved. (RO) I very warmly welcome the measures put forward by the Commission and Council.
A lack of economic governance led to decisions being taken under pressure and without any consultation with the European Parliament.
The lack of common rules is having different effects on Europe's citizens, even though all Member States have helped trigger the crisis.
However, these measures need to be backed up by a coherent economic recovery strategy and by control and sanction mechanisms.
In relation to your comments about the slow response, we need to look at that because there is the problem of a lethargy in the European system in terms of response.
We are capable of doing it but we seem not to have done it in this particular instance.
In the case of Greece, we saw speculators hit it mercilessly, on the one hand, and Community solidarity which was very late coming and which came on very harsh terms, forcing the Greek people to make very unpleasant sacrifices and embark on justified strikes, on the other.
The people of Europe want a more humane Europe, with fewer inequalities between the Member States.
The time has come for a more realistic and people friendly programme for the European Union of 2020 which listens to the challenges of the times. (SV) Mr President, Europe needs more cooperation and more solidarity - not protectionism and nationalism.
By all means scrutinise other countries, but not mine.
Scrutinise Greece, Spain and Portugal, but not my country.
The goal of a single currency, eventually for 27 plus countries, is based on the false assumption that one currency can be appropriate for many very different economies.
We cannot allow goods and workers from low-wage countries to flood into Europe.
I trust also that eurozone colleagues will be able to accept Estonia as a positive example; that would send an encouraging signal also to Latvia and Lithuania convincing their people that it makes sense to make efforts and that all the applicants will be treated according to their merits.
I do not think any of us should be in any doubt that accurate monitoring of public liabilities and expenses (the President interrupted the speaker), coordination of the process of creating budgets and plans for reform in Member States at an early stage and a mechanism for aid in times of crisis are measures which are heading in the right direction.
Conscientious implementation of the principles of the Stability and Growth Pact should be a priority.
This is a key to ensuring budgetary and macro-economic stability in the European Union.
For these penalties, used in the case of Member States which are already in a difficult financial situation, could have the opposite effect, an adverse effect on the economies of these countries ... (The President interrupted the speaker) Therefore, I would ask that we plan the future of Europe responsibly. (FI) Mr President, when there is a crisis the psychological reaction is either to curl up in a ball, blame others, look for enemies or try to find solutions.
Europe is now witnessing this threeway approach: on the one hand, nationalism and protectionism are on the rise in many countries; on the other, new solutions are being sought, as is the case with the Commission.
The Greek nation, Prime Minister and politicians now deserve our respect, since they are taking some very difficult decisions.
The fundamental principle of the social market economy is already laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Therefore, I am calling for a regulatory approach, in other words, measures taken by the state to influence the basic conditions of economic activity by means of general legislation.
The answer is 'no'.
If we are to have a monetary union, it must be a hard monetary union.
In addition, the free financial markets must not be regarded as being separate from the real economy in future.
Therefore, we need clear rules in the Europe 2020 strategy to deal with speculators and hedge funds.
We also need to be braver in applying the rules to the Member States.
Countries which commit fraud must leave. (DE) Mr President, Mr Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, the Europe 2020 strategy presents us with a specific challenge.
The Commission has simply forgotten to include objectives to strengthen small and medium-sized companies in this programme.
Mr Rehn, I am calling on you specifically to take action on behalf of SMEs and to draw up objectives to strengthen the position of these companies and their employees. (SL) Today's has been one of the better debates we have had on the financial and economic crisis, especially on how it has played out in Greece, and most of the contributions have essentially centred on the issue of how we should govern the European Union in the future.
Might I therefore suggest that we call to task Mr Almunia, the ex-Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, for example, as he was quite critical towards some countries during his term of office and then the Greek issue came up.
So I appreciate what has been done here today and I think that, from today on, we should also move on to dealing with the financial terrorists of the rating agencies and the speculators who are playing havoc with people's lives and trying to bring down sovereign governments.
By taking that twin approach - dealing with governance at political level and dealing with the financial terrorists - we might be able to look forward to a better future. (DE) Mr President, Mr Rehn, Mr López Garrido, we are talking today about common European economic governance.
I believe it is time for us to realise that the market does not have an independent value and that the citizens of Europe do not have to serve the market, but instead, that the market is there to serve the people, the 500 million Europeans.
I am convinced that we need consolidation and growth, but both terms are always connected with another aspect, in other words, socially responsible consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other.
What is urgently needed is European economic governance and not prior scrutiny of the national budgets. (RO) We all know that the Europe 2020 strategy was launched with the aim of helping the European Union emerge from the current economic crisis and prepare its economy for the new decade.
However, it is a serious matter that the Europe 2020 strategy does not even provide clear guidance on revising one of the most important common policies, namely, the reform of the common agricultural policy.
What makes this even more serious is that the reference to agriculture as a vital political instrument for achieving the EU 2020 strategy objectives was only made at the last minute.
In recent years, we have concentrated mainly on the Treaty of Lisbon, and we have devoted less attention to economic union, and especially monetary union.
Mr President, we can really say that the European Union is facing a situation that is similar to others in its painful history that have been resolved favourably.
That is what we have done at the start of this century with the Treaty of Lisbon, and that is the only way out of a difficult situation such as the one that we are in.
Therefore, the way to respond to the situation of deregulated markets; a lack of competitiveness in the production system, which is having serious effects, with a social impact in terms of unemployment; the deficit problem, with 20 countries out of the 27 having begun excessive debt proceedings; and to an obvious lack of economic governance in the European Union, is not with less Europe but with more Europe.
At the moment, however, times are moving even faster, and I think that we need to be quicker in our response, which must help to resolve the fundamental problems that still exist in the European Union and have been put to the test as a result of this crisis.
This regulation has been produced, but we need to conclude the negotiations between the Council and Parliament on the whole financial supervision package as soon as possible.
This package also, incidentally, regulates the rating agencies, because - in relation to one of the suggestions or questions put forward by Members - the rating agencies are going to be subject to supervision by the European authority.
The fourth important element is the package on the coordination of economic policies presented by Commissioner Rehn on 12 May, which was examined yesterday in the Ecofin Council.
Along these lines, we think that the implementation of Article 136 of the TFEU, established by this Commission proposal, is very important, and we also need to speed up putting it into practice.
Finally, I also believe that we must speed up the debate or the decision, which I think must be raised at the G20, on a tax on international financial transactions.
Parliament is a European institution, the Commission is a European institution and the Council is also a European institution.
Let me first say that I highly appreciate the broad support given by the European Parliament for reinforcing economic governance.
I also listened very carefully to Minister López Garrido and I thank the Spanish Presidency for their support and for the excellent cooperation on this issue as well as on other issues.
We have to work on three strengths.
First of all, we need vigilance for the immediate resolution of the crisis in Greece and elsewhere in Europe.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am quite used to this but I would appreciate it if there were some interest in the House in what I am going to say.
Immediate crisis resolution, complete financial market reform and reinforcing economic governance: these are the three main tasks that we have to work on as soon as possible now.
Please read those 10 pages of the communication on reinforcing economic governance in Europe.
Well, we contribute actively and constructively to the work of the task force presided over by President Herman Van Rompuy but, yes, we shall use our right of initiative and we shall soon put forward concrete legislative proposals on reinforcing economic governance.
Instead, we must act without delay.
The European Union has always produced the best results by an alliance of the Parliament and the Commission, so I count on your support in this regard.
It is also important that we bring the national parliaments on board by taking an inclusive approach, as Mrs Goulard has suggested.
But, most importantly, please recall that the European Parliament can help all of us in the European Union to act more quickly and with determination.
So please convince your constituencies and help us convince the Member States, and not only the Spanish Presidency, which is very convinced.
I trust you can, and will, make your voices heard, and I count on you taking a very strong and determined position in the Europe 2020 resolution in the course of this session week of the Parliament.
The Lisbon Strategy failed due to a lack of political commitment on the part of Member States to take the lead in meeting its objectives.
In order to ensure that the EU 2020 strategy succeeds where the Lisbon Strategy failed, national reform programmes need to be monitored more effectively at European level.
Faced with the crisis that they created, speculative financial capital's decision-making centres - as well as their institutional extensions in the EU's institutions and in governments - have just launched a new and different attack on the people and workers of Europe.
The necessary change will grow out of this struggle and its drive towards progress.
It is regrettable that the European Council and Commission have come here to state that they are taking measures to resolve financial and productive problems in a framework of budgetary discipline, and that they are presenting the creation of the task force as the ace in the hole for long-term measures.
However, all this requires true economic and social cohesion, with a clear strengthening of the Union budget, solidarity, more public policies and monitoring of the essential sectors of the economy by the state.
The complexity of today's challenges requires an integrated set of political instruments.
The EU must give primary importance to research and innovation in tackling challenges such as climate change and finding solutions to increasing global competition.
Since, in the period after the crisis, providing stimulus to growth and to job creation through research and innovation has become more important than ever, I suggest that this be set as the prime objective of the EU 2020 strategy.
We are justified in our concern, however, that the current budget does not adequately cover the monetary needs to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I ask the European Commission to propose a new budget model that is bold and ambitious but also practicable, in order to guarantee the success of the EU 2020 strategy.
It is very important that we take responsibility for the future, and that children and young people remain at the core of all our plans.
Launching the EU 2020 strategy intended to harmonise the Member States' economic and employment policies in accordance with common principles is perhaps the most important task facing us.
For the purposes of monitoring and verifying progress in meeting these targets and an assessment of the struggle against social exclusion, it is worth considering the 'Laeken indicators' adopted by the 2001 European Council at Laeken, along with their components that have, in the meantime, been expanded and defined in greater detail.
They have been used successfully in the past few years by numerous EU institutions, including Eurostat.
The main objective of the Europe 2020 strategy we are discussing should be to ensure economic growth in the European Union and to increase employment.
The measures we take should aim to increase economic activity and, in this way, to achieve sustained economic growth in the long term.
A well-developed infrastructure is the basis for the efficient functioning of the internal market which, consequently, leads to a growth in internal demand and economic activity.
In addition, a well-developed infrastructure is necessary to reduce differences in development between regions, leading to higher competitiveness and stronger economic, social and territorial cohesion.
I suppose none of us is in any doubt that, along with implementation of the EU 2020 strategy, we will need stronger leadership and greater political responsibility from Member States, and also the European Commission, in the area of undertaking structural reforms.
In this context, it would be helpful to make a thorough evaluation of the EU 2020 strategy around five years after its introduction, in other words, at the end of the mandate of the current European Commission.
in writing. - The implementation of the EU 2020 strategy should emphasise economic cohesion, meaning that it is still crucial to reduce economic disparities between EU regions which lag behind and those which are more prosperous.
In the Europe 2020 strategy, the agricultural sector is regarded like any other sector in our modern economy, and I welcome that.
There has to be a synergy between the 2020 strategy and reform of the CAP post-2013 - both have to focus on promoting intelligent green growth.
I think that we have the great advantage of knowing the reasons for failure and of successfully avoiding them as part of the new EU 2020 strategy.
The report spells out exactly the important contribution made by the Structural and Cohesion Funds to Europe's economic life and in achieving the objectives which have been presented to us as part of the EU 2020 Agenda.
Some ideas are worth highlighting: the key role played by cities in achieving these objectives and the role of research and education.
By revitalising rural economic life, modernising agriculture in Europe, helping to set up young farmers and spreading best practice, the rural development funds themselves make an important and welcome contribution to general economic advancement across the European Union.
At the same time, the consequences of the irresponsible budgetary policy which has operated hitherto in several Member States will obviously remain to haunt the European Union for some years to come.
We could learn from our mistakes so that, unlike with the failed Lisbon Strategy, we would have a clear understanding of how we will achieve the objectives set, what kinds of financial resources we will be able to use, and whether our resources will enable us to achieve any of the objectives.
While noting the structural changes taking place in the world economy, mainly the tightening of competition, and also the demographic changes in Europe, we must, instead of lofty but empty-worded ideas, focus on radically reforming the entire economic and social system of the European Union.
We necessarily face some unpopular decisions, but by making these decisions today, we will adapt much more quickly to the new reality.
These crises reveal the problems of European and global control and supervision: the economic crisis is largely a matter of a crisis in the system that once prevailed and in policy.
Achieving a minimum 25% reduction in the EU poverty level by 2020 is a target closely linked to the growth of employment among the population, which is a priority of the social inclusion policy.
This strategy must include measures aimed at achieving a work-life balance and greater involvement in an open labour market, which also means lifting access restrictions for Romanian and Bulgarian workers.
Another is to fight poverty, which is intended to improve the situation of 20 million people.
However, I think this will be difficult to achieve.
Over 30% complete tertiary education but, in spite of this, do not find work because the qualifications they have gained do not meet the needs of the market.
Such high unemployment is undoubtedly an effect of the crisis, which has caused, among other things, a drop in industrial production to the level of 20 years ago.
The economic and financial crisis has made it necessary in many Member States to introduce cost-saving measures and to reform existing structures.
I think that increased scrutiny of the particular situation in the new Member States during the process of implementing reforms is of crucial importance, not only for the success of the Europe 2020 strategy, but for the future of the Union itself.
Perhaps it is also time for us to develop new types of economic, financial and even budgetary links, particularly in the euro area.
In March, the European Commission presented a new economic development plan for Europe.
After the Lisbon Strategy, Europe 2020 is the next attempt at reviving the European economy.
In relation to this, we must make every effort so that this attempt to develop another economic strategy for Europe does not turn out to be just wishful thinking and does not end up like the Lisbon Strategy, which was supposed to transform the European Union into the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, but which was a spectacular failure.
