Oral explanations of vote (IT) Madam President, there is no doubt that this report represents a step forward in the creation of new educational opportunities for young people.
Building educational success is the focus of this report, and it is also the reason why we voted in favour.
It is estimated that by 2020, the proportion of jobs requiring a high qualification will rise from 29% to 35%. (PL) Madam President, European programmes which support young people call for unqualified support.
The people who are the future of our continent are also the most defenceless, are they not?
It is we who must ensure that they receive the right education, with access to the benefits of culture and, most of all, the opportunity to learn foreign languages, as well as the opportunity to make a free choice of where they would like to receive their education.
The good results achieved in many programmes for helping young people, such as Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci, show this to be an effective investment.
The Bologna Process, the Copenhagen Process and other such initiatives are good examples of this.
Nevertheless, I would like to single out a few aspects: firstly, given that the Youth on the Move initiative aims to achieve the principal goal set in the Europe 2020 strategy of reducing the number of people leaving school without qualifications from 15% to 10%, it lacks measures and recommendations oriented towards raising teacher competences, qualifications or professional prestige.
In this connection, we have a lot of work to do, but also major opportunities. (PL) Madam President, I am extremely pleased that Youth on the Move is an integral part of the Europe 2020 strategy.
I am pleased, too, that the report we have voted through today has given attention to the importance of non-formal education, understood as education by participation in youth organisations and non-governmental organisations and by volunteering.
I am sure that non-formal education helps young people become active citizens, teaches teamwork, helps develop individual interests and gives them better chances of finding work - and that is something which is very important. (PL) Madam President, children are our future.
They will be part of conscious society in Europe in the future, so it is very important to educate children from an early age.
We must instil positive values and the right moral standards into our children from their earliest years.
We must strive to achieve equal opportunities, so that all children, regardless of whether they come from urban or rural areas, or from rich or poor families, have access to early learning.
We have these epochal events - this economic crisis on our border, this collapse in our share of world GDP - and here we are talking about early years learning, about our responsibilities to the International Labour Organisation, and about whether Sarajevo should be a European city of culture.
For your information, Lithuania is home to around 200 000 Lithuanian citizens of Polish descent, and there are 62 schools where teaching is only carried out in Polish and 34 schools with Polish classes.
In my opinion, we must leave it to the Member States to decide how many pre-school facilities they need, because it is not just a question of numbers, but also a question of quality and the culture of a given country.
I very much regret the fact that I was unable to vote for this report, but it fundamentally challenged a belief that is dear to me. (SK) Madam President, childhood undoubtedly has fundamental significance for the physical, mental and social development of children.
Parents are the first and most important teachers of their children, and thus the legal framework should not contain provisions which penalise parents for personally caring for their children, particularly in the early years.
This agenda is within the exclusive competence of the Member States.
In the meantime, the best and surest way to ensure that we treat fish as a supply that is always going to be there is to recognise the ownership rights of the people who have the water under maritime law. (DE) Madam President, the rising global market prices for oil are not the only cause of the crisis in the fisheries sector, as the fuels are generally already exempt from tax and as the rising global market prices affect every fisherman in the world - in the European Union and beyond.
I voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, not having gone along with my group, due to my concern about the difficult time the sector is experiencing and which has worsened due to the oil price increase.
The EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 increase of de minimis aid for companies for a period of only three years can help them in this complicated situation.
Its application must also guarantee environmental and social sustainability, and should not distort competition between Member States.
I think if we could increase the supply within Europe, that would automatically bring down world prices and also, of course, make us less dependent on non-democratic regimes for our supply. (SK) Madam President, I fully agree with the demand for the assessment of the impact of all relevant bills on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to be performed systematically both at a national and at a European level, because these businesses are the real backbone of the European economy and, as such, provide more than 100 million jobs.
Current practice shows, however, that at a regional and local level, access to financial support for the initial stages of innovation and for supporting start-ups and small innovative companies is still very inadequate and patchy in the EU.
We strongly support the main thrust of any provision such as this to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
There is a case for and against CCCTB.
We should give every possible assistance to SMEs, but it is not necessary constantly to introduce these terms.
Our views are that the case for the CCCTB, which is currently being denigrated in Berlin, is the sort of propaganda that came off the top of somebody's head.
This item concerns explanations of vote. (FI) Madam President, as far as common corporate tax is concerned, it would be a very challenging prospect for the European Union, because its 27 Member States are all very different.
It is very important that a report such as this one has been produced and that we should also aim to consider companies in remote areas in the north, for them to be able to compete on an equal footing with other European companies. (GA) Madam President, firstly, I agree with what my leader, Gay Mitchell, said about the CCCTB and I voted accordingly.
We need to name and shame and take action against those countries because they are having a terrible effect on legitimate businesses within Europe.
To achieve these objectives, we need to work together for innovation.
Another factor which drives innovation is consumption, and a specific example of the way in which citizens' creativeness can be combined with the desire to use modern technologies are the iPhone applications being developed by European consumers.
A fundamental objective of innovation is to maintain a high level of prosperity in Europe.
I would like, however, to give my backing, in particular, to those speakers who stressed that innovation and research should and must take place in the agricultural sector, too.
However, in my opinion, something which is absolutely fundamental is support for innovation in the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in particular, especially in the European Union's new Member States, which, in this respect, are some way behind.
Funding is a serious problem, so we should persuade individual Member States to support small and medium-sized enterprises in this area.
Without this support, they will not cope with the growing competition in the world economy. (PL) Madam President, I endorsed the interesting and comprehensive report on transforming Europe for a post-crisis world.
I did so in the hope that the course of action proposed in the report will reduce the growing disproportions in development between the different EU Member States and slow down the 'brain drain', which the report calls - too politely, in my opinion - intellectual mobility.
Therefore, to secure the sustainable development of Europe, we must allocate increased funds to the development of innovation and to research projects in the EU's new Member States.
However, the amount spent on research and development should not in any way reduce future budgetary plans for the European Union's current priorities, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy, because they are fulfilling their role well. (SV) Madam President, despite the fact that innovations are so incredibly important for economic and social development in Europe, up to now, the EU has not had any collective regulations on innovations.
The fact that this proposal has been tabled by the Commission and Commissioner Geoghegan-Quinn is therefore extremely important.
Simplifying the rules is extremely important, because every researcher, every industry and every small business brings this up as the greatest barrier to using EU funds and working together in a focused way to improve the situation for innovations in Europe.
Thank you. (FI) Madam President, the everyday life of the domestic worker is often uncertain, undervalued and unofficial.
The ILO convention on domestic workers and the common rules that would apply are a primary means of ensuring that the human rights of domestic workers and their employment and social rights are respected, supervised and developed.
These workers, who are frequently women, are the most vulnerable of all.
Improving the situation of domestic workers should be a priority for the Europe 2020 strategy. (DE) Madam President, I will set out my views on domestic employment.
First of all, I agree with those who say that those employed in this sector - and they are mostly women, of course - are entitled to fair pay and fair social services.
My second point is that we need an analysis of the status quo, in other words, an analysis of the data covering what is actually happening on the ground in the Member States of the European Union.
Support for the cultural dimension in those countries in North Africa which are now building a new, more democratic society is also especially important.
Bilateral development and trade agreements should always require not just elements of social responsibility but also cultural elements.
There should even be cultural experts associated with the European External Action Service, so that culture can be made part of the EU's foreign policy in a way that is more coherent and systematic. (PL) Madam President, the cultural heritage of European countries is, in itself, something of value.
Although there are many cultural differences between them, the Member States have already made a good name for themselves in the world, one which attracts the citizens of other countries who would like to draw on these cultural resources.
An important role in the area of culture is being played by new technologies, which also enable people to exercise fundamental human rights.
The Union must, therefore, support freedom of the Internet in the world arena and make significant contributions to the development of culture and the awareness of people in closed societies.
In addition, the young generation needs a consistent strategy on mobility for increasing development in the area of science and culture.
This is why I endorsed the report. (PL) Madam President, the declarations and remarks contained in the report are exceptionally valuable and appropriate.
In particular, I would like to refer, here, to the statements which point out that the European Union is obliged to take action throughout the world to promote respect for freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of access to audiovisual media.
I am aware that we sometimes call for these fundamental values to be upheld in other parts of the world, but forget that they are also being violated in some of the European Union's Member States.
Just as Mr Repo said just now, human rights are also a crucial part of the cultural dimension when we speak of the European Union.
So, for example, such people as Jacek Sobala, Anita Gargas, Jacek Karnowski and Wojciech Leszczyński have lost their jobs.
Journalists such as Joanna Lichocka, Tomasz Sakiewicz, Rafał Ziemkiewicz, Jan Pospieszalski, Grzegorz Górny, Tomasz Terlikowski, Bronisław Wildstein and Wojciech Cejrowski have lost their programmes - and these are just some examples among many others.
The gagging of free speech in Poland is a disgrace to the entire European Union. (FI) Madam President, first of all, concerning Mrs Sanchez-Schmid's report, I wish to say that it is extremely important that we in the European Union acknowledge the impact that creative industry and culture also has on economic growth in the European Union.
It is very significant: 2.6% of EU GDP comes specifically from creative industries, and they employ 3.1% of the EU's workforce.
With respect to Sarajevo as Capital of Culture for 2014, I would like to say that I hope that this project goes ahead.
For us on the Committee on Culture and Education, it has been an idea and project that we have all shared, as 2014 will mark the hundredth anniversary of the outbreak of the First World War, which began with an incident in that very city.
We want to show that 2014 is the year that would mark the start of a long period of peace, or would continue the long period of peace that has already started.
It would certainly have greater significance for a wider Europe. (FI) Madam President, with respect to Sarajevo as Capital of Culture for 2014, I would like to say that I hope that this project goes ahead.
For us on the Committee on Culture and Education, it has been an idea and project that we have all shared, as 2014 will mark the hundredth anniversary of the outbreak of the First World War, which began with an incident in that very city.
We want to show that 2014 is the year that would mark the start of a long period of peace, or would continue the long period of peace that has already started.
Mobility is important to learn about other cultures, but also to better understand one's own.
Less than one third of the EU's population has a higher education degree, compared with over 40% in the United States and over 50% in Japan, so Europe must increase these numbers in order to be able to make itself more competitive in an ever-increasing global economy.
Recent years have seen the European Union become increasingly focused on creating a knowledge-based society that is able to compete with all other economies on a global scale.
These targets are ambitious, given that the current situation is so unstable and forces young people to live in a perpetual state of uncertainty, far removed from the encouraging prospect of a stable job in the future and of their place in society.
I voted in favour of this report.
Investing in education is, without doubt, essential for sustainable growth and development and, even in times of economic crisis, financing youth programmes and education should not be regarded as a cost to be met now, but rather as an investment in the future of Europe.
I feel that the Youth on the Move initiative provided for in the Europe 2020 strategy can contribute towards strengthening the existing education, mobility and employment programmes for young people and encouraging Member States to achieve the targets of the EU 2020 strategy.
I voted for the Zver report.
These problems require harmonised action at EU level so that young people are better prepared for the labour market.
It introduces 28 measures aimed at better adapting teaching and training systems to the needs of young people, encouraging them to make use of EU aid to study or take part in a training course in another country.
This initiative aims to increase youth mobility by aiming to ensure that all young people in the EU have the opportunity to study abroad by 2020.
Although the European youth unemployment figures are extremely worrying - in January 2011, the unemployment rate among under-25s in the EU rose to 20.6% - the report on the 2020 strategy's flagship initiative, 'Youth on the Move', calls on Member States to increase their investment in education, training and mobility.
Policies relating to young people, whether they concern early, continuing or vocational education and training, must be seen as an investment, not a cost.
Putting the emphasis on human capital is essential for the future of our European societies.
YoM outlines key courses of action for increasing young people's education and training by means of mobility, and thus for facilitating their entry into the labour market.
According to recent figures, 14.4% of young Europeans aged between 18 and 24 years dropped out of school before completing their secondary education, and less than one third of the European Union's population have a higher education qualification, compared with around 40% in the United States and 50% in Japan.
Lastly, I believe that high quality education and training are indispensable for meeting the demands of the modern labour market.
I supported this report because of the need to promote a framework for the improvement of education and training systems in Europe.
The Youth on the Move initiative has to be a political initiative to promote education, mobility and employment programmes for today's youth and as an incentive for Member States to attain the aims of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The report refers to the 'Youth on the Move' programme, which allows young people and youth organisations to do more at European level (seminars, meetings, trips) and to take an active part in debates on policies relating to young people, with financial assistance from the EU.
Young people are currently one of the groups hit hardest by the global economic and financial crisis.
The EU and the Member States have an obligation to support specific, effective measures that enable the transition to be made to the labour market, through better education, training and mobility.
The Youth on the Move initiative is in response to this very aspiration, offering answers to the challenges faced by young people and helping them to be successful in the knowledge economy.
In the face of unacceptable youth unemployment figures, I believe that the quality of education and training, adequate integration into the labour market, and a strong commitment to youth mobility, are key to exploiting the potential of all young people and to achieving the goals of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Moreover, although this initiative focuses on employment as the end result, it does not ignore issues linked to education, to youth participation, to active citizenship, to mobility, to language learning and to a whole series of skills that are essential to the area of non-formal education today.
The 'Youth on the Move' initiative is an important point of reference for young European citizens.
We must ensure that through our young people, these identities are truly European and not allow the only educational model for our young people in the future to be the American one, although this has, of course, been an important point of reference until now.
This initiative advocates the need to give more young people improved access to the labour market, which is a very relevant goal given the level that youth unemployment is reaching in a number of Member States.
I would also stress the attention given to the importance of mobility of young Europeans, during both their education and their working lives.
This education in a variety of cultures and places will provide an education that is more complete and richer, whilst contributing to building a real feeling of 'European ownership', which will help to cement the concept of European citizenship included in the Treaties.
Student mobility programmes such as Erasmus, Erasmus Mundus and Comenius are attracting more and more candidates.
However, there are still practical obstacles to mobility, especially for obtaining visas and medical papers in different languages, for transferring grants abroad, and for the recognition of qualifications gained in another Member State.
In 2004, when the Erasmus Mundus exchange programme was launched, with the help of a large majority in this Parliament, I got the European Commission to agree to take the necessary measures to ensure quality in this programme.
The opening of European mobility programmes to all young people, irrespective of their course or social background, is crucial in order to give them better access to the labour market.
That is why the European Parliament has very warmly welcomed the proposals in the 'Youth on the Move' report: increasing investment in higher education, developing international mobility programmes, recognising informally acquired competences, combating early school-leaving and supporting young people in entering the labour market.
Commitment to education and training to improve young Europeans' qualifications is a key objective of the Europe 2020 strategy, and an instrument that I consider essential to combating unemployment and encouraging entrepreneurship.
I therefore welcome the Youth on the Move initiative, in particular, its aspect of supporting and encouraging student mobility, and of recognising qualifications, as well as the importance ascribed to non-formal and informal education, which are often as important as formal learning or even more so.
If Europe wants to successfully achieve the ambitious objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, which place particular stress on innovation, research and training, it will have to invest in better qualified young people, opting for forms of education that are more geared towards future incorporation into the labour market and paying particular attention to knowledge that really prepares young people for the future.
This report is on the 'Youth on the Move' initiative, which will eventually be, it is hoped, a framework for improving education and training systems.
This is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 strategy, whose interlinked priorities are smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
The subject matter of this report and its scope mean that it inevitably ends up tackling important issues, in some cases correctly, in others, incorrectly or very insufficiently; it is contradictory in some places.
It also mentions the problems many young people have in taking part in mobility programmes for financial reasons, the problem of high drop-out rates from school, and of unemployment and insecure jobs amongst young people.
This makes its contradictions more obvious: by endorsing the objectives of the so-called Europe 2020 strategy, it ends up advocating the path that leads to the problems it identifies, of unsecure jobs and unemployment for young people.
A quality education from the earliest years of life is necessary to ensure the development of the human being and of societies.
The reality in Member States such as Portugal is the closure of thousands of schools, increasing youth unemployment and reducing the job security of thousands of teachers, as well as the chronic underfunding of the state higher education system and the increased cost of attending it.
The Youth on the Move programme is an initiative that is central to the EU 2020 strategy.
The aims of the Youth on the Move programme are to encourage higher education in the Union, to improve the quality of education and training, and to promote student mobility by improving the effectiveness of existing European programmes.
This report adds a key element to a European policy that must aim to provide young Europeans with the tools to be more competitive on a labour market that has become increasingly globalised.
Focusing on student mobility has to be the first step in giving more employment opportunities to our young people.
Unfortunately, the figures on youth employment in many Member States must be a cause for concern and reflection.
Supporting young people by encouraging dialogue between the European institutions and youth organisations is a good start, but it cannot be considered the ultimate aim.
in writing. - I voted for the Zver report.
In order for the EU 2020 'Youth on the Move' (YoM) flagship initiative to be successful, EU Institutions must create a pragmatic, comprehensive and wide-ranging policy supported by all Member States which focuses on connecting the areas of vocational education, professional qualifications, lifelong learning and apprenticeship to the labour market so as to ensure that each Member State will truly take ownership of the EU's education system.
Consequently, all labour market players, including those from the professional sectors, businesses, trade unions, ministries and public employment services, should engage in a structured dialogue on how to guarantee professional integration of the young, promote formal/informal training and ultimately develop an education system in the EU which is able to provide career security for our young people.
This report once again shows how important it is for European development to promote the mobility of our young people in all fields.
Mobility on the part of apprentices also leads to better recognition of many trades and impedes social dumping, as there is a progressive scale that means that, for the same level of training, the same pay is awarded.
It is from this perspective that I support the idea, defended in the Zver report, that the funding of young people's education and mobility is an investment in Europe's future, not an additional burden on the budget, this despite the current difficult economic situation.
What is more, someone's social background or financial situation should not restrict their accessing the opportunities of travelling abroad.
Finally, legally binding rights should be established in order to prevent the casual jobs and exploitation to which young trainees could fall victim.
I voted in favour of this document because it recognises that it is essential to overcome practical obstacles and barriers to mobility and further promote recognition of time spent abroad and of qualifications from other EU countries.
Moreover, it acknowledges that people with disabilities face even more barriers to mobility than those who are not disabled and additional mechanisms should be put in place to ensure they are provided with the same opportunities as anyone else.
The focus is on employment as an end result and, indeed, employment is a problem of education, but also of youth participation and active citizenship.
Therefore, the existing programmes should continue to focus on active citizenship and the development of key competences, non-formal education and the promotion of European civil society.
Indeed, in the report adopted without any problem in the Committee on Culture and Education and during the European Parliament plenary session, we stressed how important it is for Member States to be involved in the implementation process and to be monitored by the European Commission.
Allowing them to follow the most suitable educational pathway, to make it easy for them to learn foreign languages, to approach the world of work equipped with the appropriate skills, or perhaps to enter a new educational or working environment, means building a future for all the countries of the European Union through the energies of university students and young workers, who come together in the same economic and cultural melting pot.
In terms of the EU 2020 strategy, creating a network of knowledge and opportunities, not just for young people but also for teachers and for all those who work in education and training, means supplying oxygen to those energies that we must unleash, using the mobility of our young people, who must learn to live in the Europe of the future.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of Milan Zver's report 'Youth on the Move - a framework for improving Europe's education and training systems'.
Throughout this report, I think that it is important to support the various programmes that have been introduced at European level to facilitate youth mobility, which are beneficial both in terms of acquiring new knowledge and competences and in terms of developing a genuine European citizenship.
At European level, it is important that, beyond 2013, we increase the credits allocated to European mobility programmes, such as Erasmus and Leonardo da Vinci, and make them permanent so more young people can benefit from them - not just students, but also trainees, young professionals and young farmers.
Finally, I want to stress that one of the key ways of combating youth unemployment is to keep adapting educational and vocational training systems to the constantly evolving needs of the labour market.
It is important that young people have the chance to play an active role in the world of work, and also in civil society in its broadest sense.
This is why I endorsed Mr Zver's report.
Youth on the Move (YoM) is one of seven flagship initiatives contained in the Commission's Europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
It is therefore essential to vote for this initiative, so that in the future, we will have young people who are increasingly qualified and prepared to realise the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The 'Youth on the Move' initiative emphasises mobility for learning purposes, but it is also vital to ensure that the teaching young people receive meets the needs of the labour market and, as a result, it is vital to give them the skills and knowledge they will need.
Nonetheless, this mobility should take place with financial resources that measure up to ambitions and with the removal of the practical obstacles to this mobility.
The effects of the global economic crisis were drastic for young people, in particular, right around the world, but also within the EU.
The EU has a target of reducing this rate to 10% by 2020 and increasing the proportion of people with a qualification from a university or technical college from 31% to 40%.
In order to be able to achieve these targets, there must be EU-wide recognition of education and training courses and qualifications.
For young people in particular, there were grave consequences of the global economic crisis, namely, serious rises in the youth unemployment and school drop-out rates.
Young people often find themselves with no prospects.
Against this backdrop, it is important to increase the mobility of young people in the EU so that, where necessary, they will have more chance of finding work on another labour market.
I abstained from the vote on this report as it fails to propose any tangible solutions to the issue of how mutual recognition is to take place where, of course, in many fields, there are qualitatively highly differing methods of education and training.
I voted in favour of this report because it provides guidelines on how to improve young people's education and reduce the youth unemployment rate.
One of the programme's key objectives is to reduce the number of people leaving school early, which increases the risk of future exclusion from both employment and society.
It is also vital for young people to gain more practical knowledge and experience through high quality compulsory traineeships.
The emblematic initiative 'Youth on the Move' is one of the seven flagship initiatives included in the European Commission's EU 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
However, this initiative needs to be combined with the report entitled 'An EU strategy for Youth', which was adopted by the European Parliament in 2010 and which seeks to set out a new, strong, European strategy for the next ten years, so that, when it comes to youth issues, Europe can develop a single policy framework.
in writing. - (PT) This report is on establishing a framework for improving Europe's education and training systems.
This measure is one of the key actions of the 'Youth on the Move' initiative, which is part of the European Commission's Europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
It aims, through concrete measures, to promote the education and training of young people through mobility, and through facilitating their transition from education to the labour market.
This is a very current issue given that young people, as one of the social groups most affected by the global financial crisis and one of the groups least involved in causing this situation, must be supported in terms of labour market access in order to safeguard their future and to boost the economy.
I therefore consider ensuring the provision of high quality education and simultaneously making it accessible to all young people to be among the most important aspects of mobility in education.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - The Youth on The Move (YoM) programme represents an opportunity to unleash the potential of young people and enable them to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the EU.
Part of the EU 2020 strategy states that 'by 2020, all young people in Europe must have the possibility to spend a part of their educational pathway in other Member States'.
This is one of the most difficult challenges facing Europe and it is vital that Member States do not respond by cutting investment in education.
We need to ensure that our young people have opportunities to learn and to move abroad to continue their learning if they wish, as investing in education today will better equip the EU to face challenges in the future.
It comprises 28 key actions and concrete measures to increase the education and training of young people through mobility and ease their transition from education into the labour market.
While we need to act in order to encourage the take-up of higher education by the greatest number and actively fight against early school leaving - only 31% of Europeans have a university degree, compared to 40% in the United States and 50% in Japan - we also need to make sure graduates are employable.
This report contains several proposals to achieve this: improving communication between businesses and universities, making university programmes and structures more relevant to specific needs in the labour market, introducing into study programmes periods of high quality work experience that are fairly remunerated and respect the young person's social rights.
The committee proposes to create international cooperation networks at universities, making use of virtual mobility.
I voted in favour of this report because it highlights how important it is for young people to have a multidisciplinary education, as far as the targets of the EU 2020 strategy are concerned.
This initiative is centred around young people, but we must not forget those young people with disabilities, who must be guaranteed the same opportunities for study and work.
I endorsed the report on improving Europe's education and training systems.
Besides Youth on the Move, funding and political support should be given to programmes such as Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci, Comenius, Grundtvig, Youth in Action and Marie Curie.
They are very efficient programmes, where the cost for a single participant is very low but the funds are used by a high number of people.
Around one third of the students who have participated in the Erasmus programme have experienced difficulties arising from uncertainties over the system of education in other countries and the lack of correspondence and continuity between the subjects of study in the home country and abroad.
The recognition of time spent abroad and of qualifications from other EU Member States should be promoted.
Finally, I would stress the need to coordinate measures with national, regional and local authorities, in the form of partnerships, in order to make the 'Youth on the Move' initiative a success.
Reference is also made to the huge importance of ensuring that the education provided meets the needs of the labour market and provides the skills and knowledge needed by the young people of Europe.
In Lithuania, youth unemployment stands at 34%, almost 14% higher than the EU average.
We must make more effort to implement three key priorities: firstly, to promote entrepreneurship; secondly, to improve youth employability by adapting education to the needs of the labour market; and thirdly, to give young people an opportunity to play a more active role in society.
EU 2020 objectives can be achieved by investing in programmes that provide young people with a wide variety of opportunities and promote labour market mobility.
This report contains a number of positive proposals, in particular, regarding the participation of young people in the process of drafting European youth policies, the enhancement of informal and non-formal education, and an improvement to trainees' status.
However, beyond the stated desire to encourage the Member States to step up their investments in the area of education independently from the financial crisis, the report is in the spirit of the policies aimed at liberalising higher education and subordinating it to the sole immediate interests of the market and thus of companies.
By voting in favour of the 'Youth on the Move' programme - a framework aimed at improving education and training systems in Europe - I wanted to support an ambitious action plan in favour of young Europeans.
Europe must take on this responsibility by proposing a concerted strategy in the areas of training and employment.
I welcome the ambition of this report, which sets at 2% of GDP the investment in higher education.
At a time when the European labour market has been affected by a major economic crisis, training must be our priority so that we are able to offer future prospects to young people and make accessing employment easier for them.
The development of European exchanges (Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci) will also be beneficial for young people, since these programmes offer real added value on a professional and personal level.
Learning a new language and discovering another culture are both assets that should be accessible to all.
Mobility whilst studying, facilitated by EU programmes such as Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci and Comenius, promotes not only the aspects of formal education, but also personal and social development.
Children in their earliest years are particularly curious, receptive and willing to learn, with this being the age at which the ability to speak and express themselves is formed.
It is also at this age that the foundations for children's future educational and professional careers are laid, as well as for the development of their social skills.
This period is critical for cognitive, sensory and motor development, affective and personal development and language acquisition, and also provides the basis for lifelong learning.
I voted for this report which, although it acknowledges that an EU approach to early childhood education services would be difficult to implement, encourages the development of a single European framework comprising shared goals and values, including shared entitlements and structures.
I voted in favour of this report.
Children's early learning lays the foundation for successful lifelong learning, which is central to the achievement of the Europe 2020 targets, which seek to create a knowledge-based society, raise employment, lower school drop out rates and reduce poverty.
However, these objectives cannot be achieved unless all children are given an adequate start in life.
The Member States must increase investment, ensuring accessible and quality early years education for all children, which can help reduce early school leaving, combat the educational disadvantages faced by children from vulnerable social and cultural groups and reduce the resulting social inequalities.
I voted for Mrs Honeyball's report.
The Europe 2020 strategy must be focused on creating an inclusive society by increasing employment.
Cultural activities are a vital source of enrichment for children by promoting intercultural dialogue.
I totally support the aims previously set out to provide childcare services by 2010 to at least 90% of children between three years of age and the mandatory school age and to at least 33% of children under three years of age.
There is a clear variation between Member States in terms of the quality and supply of their provision, rates of enrolment, approach to services, governance of services, and so on.
For this reason, a 'one size fits all' approach at EU level to early childhood education and care (ECEC) services is not suitable and would be difficult to implement.
However, the development of a common framework of shared goals and values, including shared entitlements and structures, is more than recommended.
Furthermore, these early years lay the foundations for children's lifelong learning.
in writing. - This is a very pertinent issue, and I strongly support the group line in focusing on Early Years Learning.
Building strong foundations in terms of education and care during children's early lives, as a complement to the central role of the family, constitutes the crucial basis for success in terms of learning throughout their lives, social integration, personal development and future employability.
By giving children the ability to realise their potential, quality education and care structures can contribute significantly to achieving two of the major objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy: reducing early school drop-out rates below 10% and lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion.
I therefore support the development of a European structure composed of common goals and values that includes shared rights and structures, which will contribute to coming up with adequate early-childhood education and care services; these must benefit from effective and equitable financing.
It is well known that children in their earliest years are particularly curious, receptive and willing to learn, with this being the age at which the ability to speak and express themselves is formed, along with social skills.
It is essential that European children have access to a quality education that prepares them in a challenging way for the basic skills of speaking their mother tongue, of mathematics and of one or more foreign languages.
This report is on early years learning in the European Union.
The same is true for education.
An education with a robust, quality foundation guarantees Europeans a better future.
The preparation of human resources is more important than the quality of buildings.
The quality of the professional services and the qualifications of those working in the sector need to be improved.
Some important issues are acknowledged in the report's preamble, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged background and low educational achievement, or the major difficulties many households have in reconciling family obligations with deregulated working hours and insecure jobs.
Regrettably, these issues are forgotten further on: the proposals necessary to correct these situations are not made.
As something essential to social development and combating poverty, early years learning should be founded on the guarantee of a pre-school network that is public, free, high quality and accessible to all.
In order to provide the prospect of a better life and future, a public network of crèches needs to be created, covering a wider geographic area and more open to models of teaching that encourage the development of the child and of society, and that combat social segregation and discrimination.
Some important issues are acknowledged in the report's preamble, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged background and low educational achievement, or the major difficulties many households have in reconciling family obligations with deregulated working hours and insecure jobs.
Regrettably, these issues are forgotten further on: the proposals necessary to correct these situations are not made.
As something essential to social development and combating poverty, early years learning should be founded on the guarantee of a pre-school network that is public, free, high quality and accessible to all.
In order to provide the prospect of a better life and future, a public network of crèches and nursery schools needs to be created, covering a wider geographic area and more open to models of teaching that encourage the development of the child and of society, and that combat social segregation and discrimination.
The report by Mrs Honeyball points out that, from many perspectives, it is best to make a start with education in the early years.
According to the human rights documents currently in force in Europe, children are fully and actively engaged citizens with their own rights.
The foundations for lifelong learning, which play an important role in achieving the Lisbon targets, are also laid in this early period.
We must ensure that education and care are available to all families and children, regardless of their origin or the financial situation of the parents.
The Honeyball report is one of them.
However it is true that, at paragraph 16, the rapporteur is calling for investment in parental education programmes.
We must care for future generations and the quality of their education.
These are the years when children learn and become familiar with the tools that as adults they will use to elaborate cognitive mechanisms that are different, but necessary for their future education and work.
It is of paramount importance that we support a standard policy and approach between EU Member States with regard to children's early years learning.
These programmes are very important as during their early years, children have a particular ability to learn things, and they can determine children's entire educational and professional paths.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
In 2002, the Barcelona European Council called for EU members to provide childcare to at least 90% of children between the age of three years and mandatory school age by 2010, and to at least 33% of children under three.
These targets signalled a labour market approach to ECEC services, based on the need identified at the time of increasing the numbers of women in work.
While it is vital to give due attention to the link between ECEC services and equality of opportunities for women, these targets are clearly problematic, and outmoded, since they fail to take into account many of the crucial qualitative aspects of a strong early education policy.
Adults should be a role model, thus helping children to acquire different types of knowledge and ability.
I would also like to mention and to emphasise that we should not forget in this context adequate and all-round focused movement activity aimed precisely at this age group, which can assist in the development of the individual and contribute to better health in the future.
Early years education has far-reaching implications on children's future development and their chances of success later on.
According to the target set in 2002, EU Member States must offer early years education to 90% of children between the age of three and the compulsory school age.
Children in their earliest years are particularly curious, receptive and willing to learn, and important skills such as the ability to speak and express oneself, as well as social skills, are formed at this age.
Nevertheless, early childhood education and care takes on different forms in the various countries of the European Union, depending on the country's interpretation of childhood.
The pre-school period being the most important for the child's emotional and social development, those working with these children should have the required qualifications.
In all cases, the prime concern must be to consider the higher needs and interests of the child.
Early childhood is unquestionably of fundamental importance to the physical, mental and social development of children, and we must therefore understand that the return on investment in pre-school education is the guarantee of future growth.
Although this agenda is within the exclusive competence of Member States, it is more than desirable for the Union, through its coordinating role, to contribute towards improving the situation in the Member States.
The motion for a resolution by the UK socialist MEP, Mary Honeyball, seeks to reduce the role of the mother and father of a child to that of equal partners in the State education system.
This report is a manifestation of the EU's anti-family agenda and seeks to meddle in the social competences of the Member States.
The freedom of choice of parents in relation to bringing up their children is to be undermined.
The first three years of a child's life are crucial for the development of the brain and for language learning.
The report observes that most immigrant children in the EU are educated without adequate linguistic knowledge.
The diversity in European educational traditions and, hence, in pre-school education, are both acceptable and welcome, as they reflect the different European cultural, historical and social aspects of a country.
Moreover, if the Barcelona objective stipulating that EU Member States must provide childcare for at least 90% of children aged between three and the age at which compulsory education starts, and to at least 33% of children under the age of three, is to be achieved, we need agreement between the Member States and, where possible, exchanges of information and best practices, especially by Member States with highly developed structures in pre-school education to partners with less experience in that sector.
I therefore voted in favour of the report on early childhood learning which sets out common EU objectives in pursuing the aims of the Barcelona European Council: specifically, that, by 2010, the provision of childcare should be ensured for at least 90% of children between three years old and the mandatory school age, and for 33% of children under the age of three.
This is a child-centred approach which recognises that the early childhood years are crucial to cognitive, sensory and physical development, as well as to emotional and personal development, and for language acquisition, and that they also constitute the basis for learning throughout life.
in writing. - Access to Early Years Learning is of vital importance to young children in terms of their receptiveness and willingness to learn, especially since important skills such as the ability to speak and develop social skills are formed at a young age.
Therefore, we should ensure that the targets set at the Barcelona European Council of providing childcare to at least 90% of children between the age of three and the mandatory school age, and to at least 33% of children under the age of three, are met.
The first years of childhood are crucial for children's cerebral, physical, emotional and personal development, for acquiring language, and are the foundation of lifelong learning.
Entirely in favour of the implementation of a common European approach for early childhood learning - while respecting the diversity of each Member State's approach - I lend my support to Mrs Honeyball's report, which recommends establishing a European framework for ECEC services, highlighting common values and objectives.
Given the critical role played by parents as 'main educators', the report seeks to improve parental leave - which should be long enough to enable parents to play their leading role in educating their children in the early stages of their life - and encourages the Member States to invest in parental education programmes as well as provide other forms of assistance to parents who require additional help.
Of course, this requires additional investment from all 27 Member States, and I am asking them to allocate adequate resources to ECEC services.
in writing. - Early learning in the EU follows a long and finely differentiated tradition in the different Member States.
It seems important to define a framework of values and common objectives which could be set as a goal in all Member States, while the sharing of good practices remains the key to providing high quality service, with the child's needs and care at the core of all endeavours.
The report focuses its recommendations on the balance between the role of Member States and the Commission; the necessity to make early school a broader service inspired by good practices in Member States where 'maternelles' and kindergartens are a right of parents; inclusion of all children, whatever their social background ('notion of public service'); caring for migrant children and their integration in early schools; the inclusion of arts and all tools to enhance the children's creativity; training of educators for better intercultural skills; gender parity while working in structures for early learning; and creation of new and well qualified jobs.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that, within the European Union, individual Member States still deliver early education very differently from one another.
We need to develop a common European framework that includes targets and shared values, as well as shared entitlements and structures.
Children must be fully considered real, active citizens who are able to form and express their own opinions, enjoy certain rights, and who possess their own creative potential.
A child's early years learning is extremely important to its proper development and is the key to creating a stable and economically dynamic society.
Investing in early years learning has long-term benefits for the future of our children.
The efforts made in this report to examine the issue at European and national level are important.
I welcome the call for more European research in this sector, the need to identify and exchange best practices at European level, and for proper use to be made of the structural funds and programmes in this direction.
The European Council of Barcelona in 2002 had set the target of introducing, by 2010, support centres for at least 90% of children between three years of age and school age, and for at least 33% of children aged under three.
Unfortunately, we are still a long way from these figures.
Yet the number and quality of support centres for childcare are crucial for Europe.
Like all policies which work on the principle that 'prevention is better than cure', early years learning is also relatively cost-effective to deliver.
I congratulate the rapporteur on a comprehensive report which raises some key points for further discussion and action.
Secondly, centres at local level should develop action programmes which take account of differing life situations and needs in the area of early childhood education and care.
My final observation concerns the need for universal access to childcare centres.
Data provided by the Polish Ministry of Education show that in Poland, there are 8 400 public nursery schools and 1 600 private ones, and that there are around 1.6 million children aged from three to six years.
This means there are nursery school places for barely 40% of these children, while there are 352 crèches in Poland, which are used by only 2% of children under three.
in writing. - I support this report as it is important to recognise the valuable contribution of early childhood education and how crucial it is to achieving the EU's 2020 strategy.
It is a fact that there is diversity between the education systems in the EU Member States and, as a result, the research and exchanges of best practices which this particular report advocates will, in my opinion, bring about important results in terms of improving a child's early years learning in the EU.
In fact, due to the child-oriented approach of universal rather than targeted services, the involvement of parents and the improved integration of services, I voted in favour of Mrs Honeyball's report on early learning in Europe.
I voted in favour of this report, which recommends public policies in favour of childcare that are a step in the right direction.
While taking into account the diversity of systems and traditions in terms of education and childcare in the EU, the report emphasises an approach centred on the needs of the child and on the impact that learning from a very young age will have on the child's schooling and personal development.
It presents in a clear manner the issues concerning childcare and equal access to education for all and, in particular, the children of immigrant families - whatever their situation - and particularly stresses these issues within the context of fighting against poverty and social exclusion.
It also highlights the need to provide stable employment, quality training and fair social protection to staff working in childcare.
I voted in favour of this report.
The rapporteur correctly placed the needs of the child at the heart of this report.
I also welcome the European Commission's proposal to introduce a human rights clause into the agreement, and call on the Commission to establish a dialogue with Mauritania aiming to help the country further develop a responsible fisheries policy which meets both conservation requirements and its objective to promote the economic development of fisheries resources.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
The Mauritanian fisheries sector is extremely important to Mauritania's economy, representing 10% of the country's GDP and 35-50% of its exports.
I welcome the renewal of this protocol, but it should include many important issues.
Mauritania is also one of the poorest countries in the world, classified as a Heavily Indebted Poor Country.
This country has been losing value added because of the lack of opportunity to exploit its own fisheries resources.
It is therefore necessary to study all the economic implications of this, particularly in economic and social terms.
I voted for the motion for a resolution tabled today by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) because of all these factors, which require the special attention given to them in this legislative text.
I think it is necessary to continue helping the country further to develop a responsible fisheries policy which meets requirements regarding conservation of fisheries resources.
This joint motion for a resolution of the European Parliament concerns renewal of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, which expires on 31 July 2012.
The European Commission, aware of the importance of the renewal of this partnership, and under the terms of the Council mandate, has launched a process aimed at renewing this protocol, fully pursuant to Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The current agreement with Mauritania has been contributing to the economic development of Mauritania, where the fisheries sector is one of the fundamental pillars of the economy, representing almost 10% of gross domestic product (GDP), 29% of national budget revenue and almost 50% of exports.
However, it is also essential to the European Union, and to its fishing fleets in particular.
I agree with this proposal, for which I voted, but I think that catch control needs to be scientifically monitored, navigation control systems need to be modernised and wrecks need to be cleaned.
This resolution raises a number of important issues, in line with our longstanding questions, criticisms and suggestions as regards fisheries partnership agreements; in particular, their serious lack of success with their development cooperation objectives.
We welcome the fact that a number of the points from our resolution have been included in this joint motion for a resolution.
Amongst the most important aspects, we would stress: the need for a comprehensive and detailed evaluation of the reasons for the inadequate achievement of the objectives regarding development cooperation and the various lines of support for the fisheries sector in Mauritania; the advocating of support for the fastest possible construction of adequate facilities for landing fish along Mauritania's central and southern coastlines, including Nouakchott, so that fish caught in Mauritanian waters can be landed at national ports rather than outside the country, as is often the case at present; and that fisheries agreements between the EU and third countries should be preceded by a wide-ranging debate in the countries concerned, allowing participation by the public, civil society organisations and national parliaments, thereby promoting greater democracy and transparency.
In particular, their level of achievement of development cooperation objectives is clearly inadequate.
Apart from that, the resolution includes several positive aspects, such as: that fisheries agreements between the EU and third countries should be preceded by a wide-ranging debate in the countries concerned, allowing participation by the public, civil society organisations and national parliaments, thereby promoting greater democracy and transparency; that financial support for the Mauritanian multiannual fisheries programme must be in line with Mauritania's needs for sustainable fisheries development; the need for a comprehensive and detailed evaluation of the reasons for the inadequate achievement of the objectives regarding development cooperation and the various lines of support for the fisheries sector in Mauritania.
This resolution was adopted following the proposal by the Commission aimed at opening the negotiations on renewing the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Mauritania.
This issue is not new and raises regular questioning of the European Commission by the members of the Committee on Fisheries.
I voted in favour of this document because Mauritania is one of the poorest countries in Africa, classified as a Heavily Indebted Poor Country, and financially dependent on foreign aid, and has been characterised by considerable political instability.
The European Parliament also welcomes the Commission's proposal to introduce a human rights clause into this agreement.
in writing. - I voted for this report and in doing so, urge the Commission to ensure that fishing activities that fall under the Fisheries Partnership Agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as fishing activities in EU waters.
The report, moreover, calls on Mauritanian authorities and the Commission to ensure that strict sustainability criteria are respected by all vessels exercising fishing activities in Mauritanian waters (either from the EU, Mauritania or third countries).
Combating illegal fishing, creating jobs, reducing poverty levels in third countries and supplying the EU market with quality products for its consumers are the key objectives that should be guaranteed under this agreement with Mauritania.
We also urgently need to ensure that Mauritania requires that third countries with which it establishes other agreements should respect the same rules followed by vessels flying the EU flag, so preventing competitive inequalities that put the EU fleet at a disadvantage.
Today, therefore, we must implement a new protocol which is in line with the undertaking that European countries signed up to in 2002 and which is able to ensure a sustainable fishing practice that will also contribute to development in the countries concerned.
The priority is now to resume the negotiations that were already under way, but based on new premises and involving States which have, until now, been excluded from these negotiations.
I voted for this proposal because I believe that it will benefit the EU, since a properly functioning procurement market is of essential importance in order to foster the Single Market, to stimulate innovation, and to promote a higher level of protection of the environment and climate, as well as social inclusion, throughout the EU.
This is particularly true given the need to overcome the financial and economic crisis, and to protect ourselves against any future crisis.
I agree that a sound and well-considered process of optimising the legal framework for public procurement is of vital importance for the welfare of EU citizens, for EU consumers and businesses, and for national, regional and local public authorities, and thus for the acceptance of the EU as a whole.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
A well-functioning procurement market is particularly important for fostering the integrity of the Single Market and stimulating innovation, and for achieving optimal value for public authorities and tax payers.
This market is a particularly important part of the EU economy and has huge potential, but procurement rules and principles vary across the Member States and prevent companies, particularly small ones, from gaining access to cross-border procurement.
Despite the fact that the EU has opened up its markets, our companies face huge problems if they want to access public sector markets in third countries.
The Commission should conduct a detailed analysis of the problems relating to restricted access for EU companies to other countries' markets and take appropriate action against trading partners which benefit from the openness of the EU market, but do not open up their own markets to EU companies.
Public contracts represent important economic opportunities for companies, are very important in the promotion of the Single Market, stimulate innovation, and promote the protection of the environment and climate, as well as social inclusion.
Public contracts also play a key role in the Europe 2020 strategy, and are one of the instruments to be used to achieve the proposed goals.
This motion for a resolution calls on the Commission to approach the issue of balanced access to public sector markets and to undertake the revision of public procurement and concessions, so allowing the involvement of the European Parliament, the Member States, and of citizens and businesses.
It also calls on the Commission to give priority to modernisation of public procurement rules.
Equally important is its call for the Commission to go ahead with assessing the problems associated with extraordinary low bids and to propose appropriate solutions.
For all these reasons, I shall be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
I voted in favour of this report, not with the aim of putting up protectionist barriers, but because we can no longer have a situation in which the European Union is the only one respecting the rules of the game.
We can no longer ignore social and economic dumping in emerging countries, China in particular, which are winning contracts with rock-bottom prices in the countries of the Union, without regard for social rights and legislation on State aid, whereas the markets of these countries remain inaccessible to European companies.
For this very reason, although there is a long tradition of EU legislation on such contracts, it will never be going too far to call for better, more effective laws that guarantee the total transparency of procedures; that prevent all forms of corruption or manipulation of proposals to benefit one candidate; that put a ceiling in terms of numbers and of value on the number of awards without a call for proposals or without negotiation; and that guarantee proper competition on the Internal Market between candidate companies, irrespective of their country of origin.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament addresses equal access to public sector markets in the EU and in third countries, and the revision of the legal framework of public procurement including concessions.
The EU has adopted a number of documents on this issue: directives 2004/18/EC, 2004/17/EC, 93/13/EC and 2007/66/EC, resolutions (European Parliament Resolution of 18 May 2010), reports (Mr Monti, A new strategy for the Single Market - At the service of Europe's economy and society), the European Commission communication 'Towards a Single Market Act For a highly competitive social market economy', and the European Commission Green Paper on the modernisation of EU public procurement policy.
In order to overcome the current financial and economic crisis, a perfectly functioning public procurement market is of crucial importance to revitalising the economy and ensuring equitable treatment.
This is yet another attempt to push through the liberalisation of public procurement.
Therefore, some aspects of the resolution deserve our support, specifically the criticism of the lack 'of transparency with regard to the composition and work of the Commission's internal advisory committee on public procurement (ACPP) and the role and competences of the Advisory Committee on the Opening-Up of Public Procurement (CCO)'.
We also agree with the call for 'the Commission to take steps to ensure that the composition of both this committee and the planned new advisory committee on public/private partnerships is balanced, including trade unionists and representatives of the business community, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and that they work in a transparent manner'.
However, there is another aspect of the resolution with which we agree, specifically, the criticism of the lack of transparency with regard to the composition and work of the Commission's internal advisory committee on public procurement (ACPP) and the role and competences of the Advisory Committee on the Opening-Up of Public Procurement (CCO).
It also seems the importance of strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms in the context of the European Union's commitments in the field of international public procurement should be stressed, as should the need to focus efforts on ensuring transparency and fairness in the use of public funds.
Moreover, we call for the European Parliament to be kept duly informed and receive all available information at every stage and at the end of the process.
Despite the openness of the EU public procurement market, access to third-country public procurement markets is still restricted to a large extent.
In this situation, European businesses do not have equal opportunities for competing for public tenders in other countries of the world.
For example, in 2009, the Chinese authorities adopted a system of accreditation of innovative local products, which restricted yet further access on the part of international businesses to the Chinese market.
This is why I support the call for application of the principle of reciprocity in access to public procurement markets contained in the resolution which was adopted today and which I endorsed in the opinion of the Committee on International Trade, which I drafted.
I would, however, like the future European Commission proposal on the principle of reciprocity to contribute in particular to the opening of the procurement markets of third countries, and not just to restrict access for businesses from third countries to public procurement markets in the European Union, which might have an adverse effect on competitiveness in the Union market.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because a well-functioning procurement market is particularly important for fostering the Single Market and stimulating innovation.
The specific issue of safeguarding equal treatment and fair competition on public procurement markets in the EU and in third countries urgently needs more political attention, especially given current problems regarding access to public sector markets in third countries.
In my opinion, the Commission should give priority to the modernisation of public procurement rules and dealing with service concessions in such a way as to avoid further fragmentation of EU public procurement law according to the principles of better regulation.
in writing. - (FR) I am pleased at today's adoption of the European Parliament joint resolution on equal access to public sector markets in the EU and in third countries and on the revision of the legal framework of public procurement, including concessions, a resolution of which I was a co-signatory.
The good functioning of public procurement markets is essential for stimulating the Single Market.
It is therefore important to clarify and improve the legislative framework regulating the awarding of public contracts, given their role as a catalyst for relaunching the economy of the Union.
Regarding access to the European Union's public procurement markets by businesses from third countries, the European Union has a duty to act realistically and pragmatically and, above all, without naivety.
This is not about taking a stand against the opening-up of our markets, but rather the quite legitimate position of advocating mutual access in this area, not by closing our public procurement markets, but by ensuring that our partners outside the European Union open up their markets in an equivalent way and, if necessary, by developing appropriate mechanisms enabling us to achieve this objective of reciprocity and balance.
Equal access to public sector markets in the EU and the revision of the legal framework for public procurement are absolutely essential to boosting the Single Market in the Union and Member States, resulting in social and economic integration at EU level.
Looking at the situation from the perspective of the economic and financial crisis, I think that the strategy proposed in this resolution is a necessity, in particular, the point about achieving greater coherence for the European common external trade policy.
I should emphasise how important this legislative revision is in revitalising and stabilising the European Union's economy.
in writing. - I supported this resolution as I believe the specific issue of safeguarding equal treatment and fair competition on public procurement markets in the EU and in third countries urgently needs more political attention.
These are only a few examples of the wonderful 'progress' promised by the European Commission's Green Paper on public procurement.
Not content with endorsing such nonsense, this text makes the fight against any protectionist measure the central piece of its argument.
A properly functioning procurement market is of essential importance in order to foster the Single Market, to stimulate innovation, to boost employment, growth and competitiveness, to promote higher levels of environmental and climate protection and protect social rights throughout the EU, and to achieve optimal value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers.
With the objective of overcoming the financial and economic crisis, and of protecting against any future crisis, public procurement is of crucial relevance, serving as a catalyst for the revitalisation of the EU economy and, accordingly, for employment and welfare in the EU.
Therefore, a sound and properly thought-out process of optimising the legal framework for public procurement is of vital importance for the welfare of EU citizens, EU consumers and businesses, and for national, regional and local authorities.
A properly functioning procurement market is of crucial importance to promoting the Single Market, to stimulating innovation, to promoting a high level of environmental and climate protection, and of social inclusion across the EU, and to achieving the highest possible value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers.
Public procurement plays a vital role in stimulating the Single Market, promoting innovation, strengthening growth and supporting EU employment and competitiveness.
For that to happen, as pointed out by the text of this resolution, which I endorse, it is important that the question of simplification and clarification of the rules for awarding public contracts finds answers quickly.
It also seems essential to me that access to public contracts by SMEs - who account for 99% of all European businesses and over 100 million jobs - be improved as soon as possible.
Moreover, in order to support their business, I invite the European Commission to implement the principle of reciprocity and to think of new ways of improving access by European companies to public procurement outside the Union, in order to ensure equal conditions for European and foreign companies who are competing for the allocation of public contracts.
in writing. - We finally abstained due to the fact that several EPP and ECR amendments, inadmissible to us, were adopted.
Due to a gradual liberalisation of special sectors (water, electricity and gas), in order to protect the enterprises that operate in these areas, we need a qualification system for clients, aimed at ensuring that the competing enterprises are selected efficiently.
I am in favour of the motion for a resolution, since it is necessary, in a transparent regime, to keep the fragmentation of EU public procurement law in order to achieve the highest possible levels of competitiveness and efficiency, as set out in our targets.
in writing. - Public procurement provides a unique opportunity to channel investment into projects for the common benefit of citizens whilst, at the same time, achieving wider public policy objectives.
I would like to underline the importance of public procurement contracts in promoting environmental standards in buildings and transport, and the potential that this has to improve energy efficiency and therefore reduce carbon emissions, operating costs and air pollution.
A properly functioning procurement market is of essential importance in order to foster the Single Market, and to stimulate innovation and investment.
With a view to overcoming the economic and financial crisis, public procurement is of crucial importance in boosting the EU economy and it contributes to job creation.
This vote is important because the Commission has to take the necessary measures to prevent unfair competition and non-reciprocity of access to public contracts in relation to third countries.
Indeed, we can no longer ignore the social and economic dumping practised by companies in emerging countries who are winning contracts in countries of the Union, in defiance of social rights and legislation on State subsidies, while, in the meantime, the markets of these countries are closed to European companies.
However we must also not forget that the large industrialised countries, despite signing international agreements, do not play by the rules either!
After years of inaction, the Commission seems intent on acting, and that is necessary: the survival of our companies and jobs depends on it.
Finally, I welcome the adoption of the amendments put forward by the Group of the Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament with regard to compliance, in the context of public procurement, with working, social and environmental standards in force in the Member States.
I am voting for this joint motion for a resolution.
I would highlight the measures I consider necessary: making use of all the possibilities and financial margins available under the EU fisheries budget in order to finance emergency support measures for this sector, thereby enabling it to overcome the difficulties posed by the rise in oil prices; continued European Fisheries Fund (EFF) aid to improve the selectivity of fishing gear and to replace engines on safety grounds, to protect the environment and/or fuel economy, above all, for small-scale coastal and traditional fishing; the drawing up by the Commission of a medium- and long-term plan aimed at improving fuel efficiency in the fisheries (including aquaculture) sector; and calling for the Commission to propose an action plan for coastal regions and islands which have an active fisheries sector to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
The recent rise in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and European fishermen find themselves in a difficult situation.
I agree that the ceiling on de minimis aid should be raised from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 per firm for a transitional period of three years, while ensuring that environmental and social sustainability are not undermined and that competition between Member States is not distorted.
I should like to express my deep sympathy with European fishers, whose salaries have been directly affected by an increase in oil prices, which has seriously exacerbated the economic fragility linked to the irregular nature of activity in this sector.
I am therefore voting for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which duly emphasises the above points.
in writing. - While it is not a good idea to subsidise the fossil-fuel industry, fishermen across the EU are suffering due to the economic downturn and, unlike other modes of transport, they do not have any real alternative to fossil fuels.
The Commission must adopt urgent measures to remedy the difficult economic situation in which many European fishermen find themselves following the rise in oil prices.
In particular, it is about raising the de minimis public subsidy threshold from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 per three-year period and per beneficiary firm.
That is why the Commission must provide incentives, both at European and national level, for investment in new technologies, in order to increase energy efficiency in maritime, land and air transport.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on the European fisheries sector crisis due to the rise in oil prices, as it has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector, with a direct impact on fishers' incomes.
Temporary emergency measures are needed that will enable European fishers to overcome their difficult economic situation, but the Commission should also draw up a medium- and long-term plan aimed at improving fuel efficiency in the fisheries sector, including aquaculture.
Fishing is an essential economic activity for the countries of Europe, particularly for maritime countries like mine.
As such, Parliament should be particularly mindful of the conditions affecting professional fishers.
The increasing price of fuel - an unavoidable cost for those involved in fishing - has enormously affected fishers' incomes.
At a time of savage economic and financial crisis, in which there is little aid available to sustain companies and jobs, I welcome the proposal made in this resolution by my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) to support EU fishers by increasing the ceiling for de minimis aid from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 per company for a three-year period.
This joint motion for a resolution of the European Parliament addresses the European fisheries sector crisis due to continually increasing fuel prices, which is having a very significant impact on the sector's operating costs.
It is positive that Parliament has adopted this resolution.
The significant rise in oil prices has seriously exacerbated the crisis facing the fisheries sector and its economic viability, and has very significantly reduced the already scarce incomes of those working in the sector.
The current sales dynamic does not allow fluctuations in production costs, including oil, to impact on fish prices; the current import policy contributes to this, amongst other factors.
The current common market organisation (CMO) for fisheries products has not managed to contribute sufficiently to improving first-sale prices or to better distribution of added value across the sector's value chain.
The economic situation of a large number of companies has deteriorated in recent years, even leading to many of them going out of business.
The adoption of a Parliament resolution on the European fisheries sector crisis due to the rise in oil prices is an opportunity for me to remind you how urgent it is for us to come to the aid of fishermen.
In a context where recruitment is becoming more and more difficult, and where the practices that fishermen must adopt continue to become ever more restrictive, the increase in fuel prices makes conditions even more difficult in this crisis-hit sector.
The substantial increase in oil prices is having a strong impact on fishermen's operational costs, and this caused their revenue to fall between 2008 and 2010.
I voted in favour of this document because the recent rise in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and left many fishermen worrying about how to offset these additional costs, as the rise in oil prices is directly affecting fishermen's incomes.
We need to make use of all the possibilities and financial margins available under the Community fisheries budget in order to finance emergency support measures for the industry, thereby enabling it to overcome the difficulties posed by the rise in fuel prices until such time as other types of measure are implemented.
The European Fisheries Fund (EFF) should continue to grant aid to improve the selectivity of fishing gear and to replace engines on grounds of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy, above all, for small-scale coastal and traditional fishermen.
In my opinion, the Commission must urgently propose investments, at both European and national levels, in new technologies in order to increase the energy efficiency of fishing vessels and so reduce fishermen's dependency on fossil fuels.
The resolution is an expression of Parliament's concern for the state of the fisheries sector, the financial condition of fishing firms and the market price of fish.
in writing. - I voted against this resolution because I do not believe the EU should increase subsidies for the European fisheries sector or any other sector on the basis of a rise in oil prices.
The recent rise in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and left many fishers worrying about how to offset these additional costs.
We cannot forget that the rise in oil prices is directly affecting fishers' incomes.
The incomes and wages of people working in the fisheries industry are insecure as a result of several factors, such as the irregular nature of fishing, the marketing approaches employed, and the way in which first-sale prices are set, which means that certain forms of national and EU public aid need to be maintained.
Moreover, the financial and economic crisis is having an impact on industrial sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in particular, and is jeopardising activity and employment in primary and secondary sectors.
As in the past, we must now adopt temporary emergency measures to overcome the difficulties faced by the fisheries sector against the backdrop of rising oil prices.
I voted for the resolution and against all the amendments which were tabled.
New support measures need to be adopted in the fisheries sector, bearing in mind the combination of two factors: on the one hand, the high price of oil and, on the other, the low price of fish at first sale.
Its energy bill represents the fisheries sector's most significant operational cost and, unlike other activities, the sector cannot offset the additional cost by increasing production because of the ceilings established by total allowable catches (TACs) and quotas.
Despite the diversity of opinions regarding how the sector should be managed, there is a point of agreement which it is important to stress: fishing is extremely important to the European population's food supply and a source of employment for the majority of the EU's coastal communities, where there are no other jobs.
In order to ensure the continuity of fishing, and avoid falls in supply and increased unemployment in the sector, the EU must raise the ceiling established by the De Minimis Regulation to closer to EUR 60 000, as well as adopting other measures capable of alleviating the recent oil price increase.
As such, and since the recent rise in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the sector, it is important to adopt emergency measures that will enable European fishers to overcome their difficult economic situation.
The real problem with fishing today is that 70% of stocks in Europe are overexploited, as a result of the fact that our fleet is clearly oversized.
In the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy, it is necessary more than ever before to restructure the European fishing fleet in order to discontinue the use of ships that use large quantities of fuel and release large amounts of CO2 emissions, and also of fishing gear and practices that clearly destroy the environment, so that we can make headway towards a model that is less energy dependent, less destructive, and more sustainable in environmental terms as well as in social and economic terms.
This crisis has also profoundly affected European sea fishing, because we import 60% of our fish from third countries.
The rise in the price of oil is causing a real crisis in the sector.
Operating costs have rocketed and are having a serious effect on fishers' incomes, to such an extent that the whole production sector and all coastal regions are now affected.
There is a need, not just for simplification, but also for an improved system for companies to access this financing.
Little by little, red tape and legislation - which, until recently, nipped in the bud the development of innovative small companies - has been stripped away and young people are starting to see a glimmer of a stable future that is hopefully full of opportunities.
Entrepreneurship, training, flexibility, smart regulation and access to credit are the key words of the Small Business Act, a framework that defines the EU policy for SMEs through targeted assistance and training activities for young people.
Now that many initiatives have been defined, it is the responsibility of Member States and the European Union as a whole to implement them properly, providing SMEs with a greater freedom in their actions, allowing them to participate in public tenders, adopting the single European patent in the future and quickly implementing the directive on late payments.
The Small Business Act is based on a number of pillars, such as access to finance and access to the Single Market, international markets and public procurement.
In the European Union, 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for around 99% of all businesses and provide more than 100 million jobs, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation.
SMEs face significant problems in expanding their activities and improving their ability to innovate and their access to markets.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
There are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the EU, which account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs.
They make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, are a major source of innovation, and play a vital role in sustaining and increasing employment and helping to achieve the main aims of the flagship initiative EU 2020.
The Small Business Act adopted in 2008 was a significant political step aimed at improving the business environment for SMEs, ensuring better and simpler regulation and simplifying market access.
However, SMEs continue to face serious problems expanding their activities and innovative capacities and it is difficult for them to access markets, above all, due to difficulties obtaining financing and administrative obstacles, which should also be reduced further.
The Member States should implement all the provisions of the Small Business Act as a matter of urgency in order to establish a clear and consistent business environment.
There are around 23 million SMEs in the EU, which account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs, playing a key role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation.
This resolution, for which I voted, acknowledges that several of the SBA's initiatives have been launched.
Nonetheless, much more can be done to help European SMEs, specifically: the swift implementation by the Member States of the Late Payments Directive; better Commission mechanisms for encouraging the Member States to apply the principles of the SBA; adoption by the Member States, without delay, of the last remaining proposal on the European Private Company Statute; the regular application by the Commission and the Member States of the SME test as part of impact assessments; the urgently needed reduction of the bureaucratic and administrative burden on SMEs; and putting 'Erasmus for young entrepreneurs' on a permanent footing, with a sufficient budget.
At the same time, I feel there is a need to strengthen dialogue between SMEs and public procurement bodies in order to simplify the involvement of SMEs in public procurement procedures.
I would consider it appropriate in these circumstances to examine the options for helping SMEs to create partnerships and consortia, and to participate jointly in public contracts.
The Commission should produce an assessment of the impacts and consider the possibility of increasing the ceilings for EU public contracts, which would allow SMEs to take part in contracts that would otherwise be subject to special requirements, on account of which SMEs would not be able to participate.
I would also like to call on the Commission to consider how it might be possible in Europe to improve the publication of all public procurement notices and to eliminate the administrative burden which prevents European firms from taking part in transboundary public contracts.
I welcome the creation and development of the Small Business Act (SBA), which, in my opinion, provides timely solutions for the main obstacles encountered by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as regards expanding their activities and becoming established.
The SBA calls on the Member States to improve the business environment for SMEs, so its principles should be duly implemented and adopted.
in writing. - The Small Business Act has been one of the most proactive acts of the past three years, and it is important that the EU continues to focus on SMEs.
I voted for the European Parliament's resolution on the Small Business Act Review as there are still further important steps to be taken to facilitate the proper operation of SMEs in the EU.
Indeed, 99% of all businesses in Europe are SMEs, providing more than 100 million jobs.
However, at domestic level, SMEs constantly encounter difficulties in obtaining financing or in coping with administrative tasks which often exceed the requirements under EU directives.
This is why I voted in favour of Member States stepping up their efforts in terms of implementing properly the principles featuring in the SBA.
Therefore, it is an absolute requirement that we reduce administrative formalities and put in place a modern administration adapted to the needs of SMEs.
That is why the Commission must establish a unified system for setting up a business.
It would also be useful to introduce an 'SME test' to assess the impact of all future legislation on SMEs and check that this legislation will not stifle the potential these businesses have for growth.
I welcome the adoption of the European Parliament's resolution on the Small Business Act Review, which adapts the European support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to the new context resulting from the 2008 economic crisis, and ensures that they are able to meet the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
This new version of the Small Business Act must therefore give more support to innovation among SMEs by diversifying the financing instruments and by reducing as much as possible the administrative burdens that they face.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) on their own account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs in the European Union.
Their role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation is therefore vital.
The Small Business Act (SBA) is based on key principles, such as access to finance, access to markets and better regulation.
As such, I welcome the conclusions of the Commission's review, and I am very pleased to see the new proposals aiming to improve access to finance and markets, and to move forward with the process of cutting red tape.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament concerns a review of the Small Business Act (SBA).
The social, economic and financial role of SMEs in the European Union is unquestionable.
There are around 23 million of them in the EU, accounting for 99% of all businesses and providing over 100 million jobs.
The current financial crisis has had a negative impact on these companies.
That is why there is a need to review the current legislation, so as to facilitate access to financing; to reduce administrative costs and all bureaucracy; to encourage energy saving, as only 24% of companies currently recognise its importance; to improve businesses' technology through eco-innovation; to promote improved levels of qualification, education and professional training; and to promote internationalisation and good governance.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, and I hope that all SMEs will benefit from these measures and become prosperous, as all Europeans would benefit.
It makes a positive recommendation by calling on the Member States to appoint national SME Envoys to coordinate SME policies and control the implementation of the SBA across the various administrations.
We also think that it is positive that it stresses that the administrative burden is relatively higher the smaller the company is, and therefore calls for differentiation between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
On the other hand, however, the resolution does not tackle - or fails to tackle sufficiently - a number of the constraints, direct and indirect, with which SMEs are currently burdened, many of which are the result of the policies dominant at EU level.
Nevertheless, it is positive that it stresses that the administrative burden is relatively higher the smaller the company is, and therefore calls for differentiation between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; and that it underlines that microbusinesses - with fewer than 10 employees - constitute 91.8% of all EU businesses and therefore deserve more attention and the corresponding tailored approach.
The Small Business Act is an important policy, and it aims to simplify access to funding and to the market and to improve regulation.
Today, the European Parliament has shown support for the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the European Union, which represent more than 100 million jobs and provide an essential contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and the creation of jobs.
The goal was to assess the progress made and to plan new actions with the aim of responding to the challenges associated with the economic crisis.
SMEs continue to come up against considerable problems in expanding their activities, and sometimes even in surviving.
At the same time, we must make sure that the 'SME test' is applied properly in all new legislative proposals, particularly at national level.
As a result, I voted in favour of the review to the Small Business Act, which is a resolution that recognises the crucial role of SMEs in the European economy.
Finally, it is important to point out that research, innovation and training should be supported so that our SMEs can enjoy the full benefit from the Single Market.
As a representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I took part in the work and negotiations on the Late Payments Directive, which is one of the key legislative proposals announced in the original version of the Small Business Act.
The Annex contains examples of some good practices, and among them, in the part concerning the Single Market, it mentions the fact that 22 Member States have set up operational one-stop shops (points of single contact).
Barely three months ago, this House adopted a report on implementation of the Services Directive, in which we draw attention principally to the fact that the one-stop shops are not fully operational, that in most cases, they do not allow completion of formalities by electronic means and that they are not working in the way which businesses expect.
I voted in favour of this document because it welcomes the Commission review of the Small Business Act (SBA) and expresses support for the new proposals focused on further improving access to finance, enhancing market access and reducing the administrative burden, by strengthening governance and monitoring through smart regulation.
We also need to promote the 25% reduction of administrative burden indicated in the SBA, which would contribute to the effectiveness of the SBA, would counteract any protectionist economic policies of Member States and stimulate business across the EU.
Member States must swiftly implement the revised Late Payments Directive to effectively combat late payments and their negative impact, particularly on SMEs.
Bearing in mind the crucial role which SMEs play in the European economy and their contribution to boosting economic growth, employment and social cohesion, measures must be implemented which aim at providing an ideal framework for the development of SMEs.
In this context, I would like to stress that Member States need to step up their efforts in supporting the policies aimed at promoting entrepreneurship and creating a favourable business environment for SMEs.
Consideration must also be given to the key role played by exchanging good practices within these policies.
Improving SMEs' access to funding and the Single Market, cutting red tape, as well as ensuring better implementation of the Small Business Act by Member States, must be priorities at national and EU level.
The review of the Small Business Act (SBA) and the new proposals it contains are necessary tools to strengthen and revitalise the 23 million European small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which have proved to be the real bulwark against the economic crisis.
Within the European economy as a whole, SMEs account for 99% of all businesses and provide jobs for almost 100 hundred million Europeans.
We need to continue working to strengthen and support SMEs to reinvigorate growth, while also focusing on improving competitiveness and innovation.
These proposals faithfully reflect these needs.
Of particular importance is reviving the SBA in accordance with the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy and all actions to facilitate SME growth through simplification and support, not only for investment, but also for the challenges that globalisation and climate change bring today.
We cannot forget that the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the EU, which account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, are a major source of innovation, and play a vital role in sustaining and increasing employment, and contribute to achieving the main goals of the Europe 2020 flagship initiatives.
The Small Business Act (SBA) is based on a number of important policy pillars, such as access to finance, access to markets - the Single Market, international markets, public procurement - and better regulation.
We must encourage the Member States to adopt its guidelines so as to help SMEs at this time of crisis.
I am very positive about this resolution concerning the Small Business Act review, as it contains the correct measures to undertake in order to make it easier for over 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises to do business.
The main points include the application of a new series of measures giving easier access to credit through public support for guarantee systems and a strong commitment to encouraging the cofinancing of micro-credit.
Finally, I would like to underline that internationalisation may be the new frontier for relaunching small and medium sized enterprises, and therefore any tools for permitting expansion beyond their borders will be very welcome.
I voted in favour of this document because I believe that the incentives for small business set out in the Small Business Act are the way to increase the competitiveness of the European Union.
In particular, I would like to draw attention to two aspects of the resolution we adopted.
It is therefore particularly important for them to be enterprising and ready to create a vibrant and competitive EU economy.
On the other hand, efficient use of resources as a measure on its own is not enough - in general, there needs to be a sustainable attitude to the environment at every stage of business development.
This resolution aims to provide the European Parliament's perspective on the analysis of the Commission's 'Small Business Act'.
As such, Parliament is using this resolution to express its support for the new proposals aiming to improve access to finance and the markets for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); for the measures to continue the process of cutting bureaucracy through strengthened governance and monitoring; for smart regulation; and for measures such as the SME performance review.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) account for around 99% of all EU businesses and make a key contribution to economic growth: as well as a source of jobs and wealth, they are particularly suitable vehicles for innovation.
As such, it is essential to continue offering them conditions to be able to develop and become secure in the market, by guaranteeing them access to finance and to the potential benefits of the Single Market.
It is therefore important to congratulate the Commission on its analysis of the Small Business Act and support the new proposals put forward to pursue the objectives of supporting the SMEs.
Despite the many proposals that have been seen through in the last three years - I am thinking of the Late Payments Directive in particular - a lot of progress remains to be achieved to make things easier for small and medium-sized enterprises, not only in respect of the administrative burden they have to deal with, but also the difficulty in accessing funding that they experience.
The European Commission must continue on the path it defined with the SBA in 2008.
The report acknowledges the key role of SMEs in the transition to an economy characterised by resource efficiency and it is also essential to acknowledge the role of young entrepreneurs.
For the latter, the EU should commit itself to institutionalising the Erasmus programme in order to give them an opportunity to develop.
I welcome the adoption of the resolution on the review of the 'Small Business Act' with a resounding majority of the European Parliament.
SMEs, which represent 99% of European businesses, provide two-thirds of jobs in the private sector and generate over half of the added value created, in total, by businesses operating in the EU.
However, we still have a lot to do to make life easier for SMEs with respect to the red tape they are faced with and access to funding that is often difficult.
This is also true of Lithuania, where 99.4% of Lithuanian companies employ fewer than 250 people.
According to government statistics, in January 2011, there were more than 66 500 SMEs operating in Lithuania.
According to a report by the World Bank, 17 procedures need to be carried out in order to obtain permission and this may take 162 days.
Investor protection in Lithuania is an even greater problem; in this area, Lithuania ranks 93rd.
I believe that a successful strategy for promoting innovative SMEs should not just be supported by subsidies, but by the creation of a business environment, where SMEs would have more freedom and improved access to various sources of financing.
The 23 million SMEs in the EU provide over 100 million jobs and make a huge contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation.
I am pleased that almost all legislative proposals under the Small Business Act have been adopted but urge Member States to implement the revised Late Payments Directive without delay.
I voted against the resolution on the Small Business Act Review, put forward by the European Commission in February 2011.
Its proposal to harmonise taxation systems must not result in yet another reduction in taxes on businesses - admittedly, small businesses - while salaries are hit by the austerity plans.
It is true that the review aims to improve SMEs' access to financing, but it fails to mention social and environmental issues and does not even refer to the European Commission's plan for a Social Business Initiative, announced for the end of this year.
It is true that the Small Business Act Review, in making this proposal, moves us a little way towards a social economy, but it does so through its weakness with respect to the challenges associated with these other forms of action.
Like the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the Small Business Act Review does not learn the lessons of the Monti report for re-establishing citizens' confidence in the European Union.
We must put their development, their modernisation and their competitiveness at the heart of our economic strategy.
I therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the Small Business Act Review, the aim of which is to liberate the growth potential of SMEs.
I welcome the actions proposed in this report, such as the creation of a European Private Company Statute.
This would help our SMEs to draw the full benefits of the Single Market by allowing them to carry out their cross-border activities without requiring them to fulfil obligations which are often onerous and discouraging.
Finally, we must come to the aid of innovative SMEs by facilitating their access to diverse forms of financing.
That will be achieved, in particular, by significantly simplifying the use of European credits, which are still lacking in flexibility.
These credits exist, and I think that they must be utilised in order to provide more effective support for the development of the real economy, innovation and employment.
The Innovation Union should also increase Europe's competitiveness, to help find a way out of the economic crisis.
As Europe is very dependent on imports, the Member States are united in feeling the need to use intelligently and sustainably the raw materials and commodities required to generate energy or for use in industry or food production.
What is needed is a common path towards an equitable and stable economy.
Establishing a modernised education system throughout the whole of Europe, placing strong emphasis on substantive research results and, of course, simplifying access to cross-border research programmes in Europe can raise the level of innovation in the EU.
The Innovation Union flagship initiative is the most significant and targeted Community attempt so far to introduce a strategic, integrated and business-oriented European innovation policy to supplement Member State efforts, whereby innovation is steered and progress monitored at the highest political level.
Innovations are particularly important for combating global challenges such as climate change, energy and food security, etc., where there is a need to innovate and reinforce the existing scientific and technological base.
It is also necessary to modernise education systems and adapt them to the needs of the times.
Member States must take action to improve the entrepreneurship and skills of young European citizens and entrepreneurs by incorporating entrepreneurship and innovation into all areas of education and improving human capital.
Such action would enable them to play an active role in innovation.
The 'Innovation Union' initiative still remains the most important Union initiative for developing an integrated European strategy in relation to research and innovation.
Increasing the pace of research and innovation is crucial for introducing a fair and competitive economic model, ensuring jobs for the future, moving towards sustainable resource management, facing up to energy challenges and stimulating a knowledge-based society.
In terms of jobs, the environment and development, innovation is thus one of the major challenges facing the European Union and will have concrete repercussions on citizens.
From now on, European citizens, as both the engines and the beneficiaries of innovation, must be able to participate fully in this 'Innovation Union' in order to ensure that it is successful, as we emphasised in this report.
Finally, we wanted for that reason to highlight how essential an innovation policy is, as well as the added value of a coordinated approach at European level.
The concept of innovation is multidimensional: it includes not only scientific research and experimental and technological development, but also the development of new processes, methodologies and organisational and behavioural models.
While welcoming the Commission communication on Innovation Union as a flagship initiative of the EU 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, I think there are still priority areas where we need a greater commitment to building capacities in science, technology and innovation: efficient resource use, recovery and recycling of waste, food quality and safety, and new epidemics.
According to the conclusions of the 2009 European Innovation Panel, the recent economic and financial crisis has had disproportionate effects in different countries.
I therefore call on the Commission to consider leveraging the resources of the common strategic framework for funding these sectors, particularly the research and innovation sectors of the European Union.
I have voted in favour of the 'Innovation Union' initiative because it represents the only possibility to overcome the crisis in a global world.
There is a future provided that there is innovation.
I fully support the report on the Innovation Union because I think that it will allow us to knock down the barriers preventing innovative thinking in the European Union.
However, I feel that the most important aspect is for us to avoid the development of a two-speed Europe, which can be done, specifically by incorporating the Union's economy into the common aspiration for innovation.
The call in the report for the introduction of the single European patent and the satisfaction it expresses over the adoption of enhanced cooperation regarding the introduction of the patent prevent me from voting in favour.
First, trilingualism would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of companies in the Member States not represented in the system.
I voted for the resolution on the Innovation Union because, apart from other things, I believe that we must adopt measures both at the European and national levels for improving the entrepreneurial skills and professional training of Europeans by incorporating business studies, creativity and innovation into all areas of education.
It is necessary to make more use of Commission programmes such as 'Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs' and, at the same time, to protect skilled trades as a source of innovation.
In my opinion, the Commission should cooperate more with Member States in drawing up medium-term and long-term outlooks in relation to the qualifications needed on the job market and in supporting partnerships between universities and the business sector, with the aim of making it easier for young people to enter the job market and helping in the creation of innovative companies based on knowledge, the development of applied research and better prospects for graduates on the labour market.
In this context, I support the proposal of the Committee of the Regions to create a 'virtual network of creativity' which would be open to all (businesses, local and regional bodies, the private sector and citizens) and would provide advice, support and access to venture capital and technical services.
I would also like to draw attention to the current lack of improved and proactive interactions between universities and businesses, and I would like to call on the Commission to launch a new Europe-wide programme for professional training and education for senior staff at universities, and officials dealing with technology.
I welcome the focus given in this report to research and innovation as a means of overcoming the economic and social crisis Europe is currently experiencing.
This is how we made the transition from the growth models of the 1950s, according to which the economy sooner or later stabilises and loses its momentum, to the endogenous growth models of the 1980s, in which technology and the design of constantly different and innovative products allow the economy to maintain a positive growth rate over the long term.
In order to set these leverage mechanisms in motion, which, from now until 2020, will take the form of research, energy efficiency and internationalisation targets, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, there needs to be a strong political desire to activate incentives and orientation mechanisms.
Resources are limited due to the crisis, and the directives in Europe 2020 need to go hand in hand with strong fiscal and industrial policies on the part of the European governments.
I voted for the report on Innovation Union as it highlighted the importance of innovation in terms of laying the foundations for a sustainable, competitive economic model and creating new jobs in the European Union.
At the same time, I tabled an amendment to this report, along with other fellow Members, in which I expressed my disagreement about funding the innovation policy with money hitherto earmarked for the common agricultural policy.
I voted for this report as I feel that it offers viable solutions for improving research and innovation in the European Union and, by extension, provides the conditions for a return to economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
Stimulating investments for research, facilitating access for SMEs to diverse sources of funding, and improving cooperation between universities, research centres and government are measures which will generate creativity and innovation in the medium and long term.
I voted in favour of this report as it introduces a range of measures to successfully address a number of societal challenges, specifically climate change, energy and resource scarcity, population ageing, and problems accessing public services and quality healthcare.
The EU must fully commit to achieving the proposed objectives.
It is estimated that 3.7 million jobs can be created by 2020, and that annual gross domestic product (GDP) can be increased by around EUR 800 billion by 2025.
This report, drawn up by Mrs Merkies, proposes an Innovation Union as a means of preparing Europe for the world in the wake of the current economic and financial crisis.
The unprecedented global crisis, which is stubbornly persisting and could threaten the European project, requires everyone and, in particular, the European Union, to take a firm stance that motivates the public.
Therefore, as well as voting for this report, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which provides us with an optimistic view of the future and calls for the innovation capacity that we all possess.
It is important to implement the proposals advocated in this report, such as better access to credit and financial support, more investment in research and development, clearer legislation, less bureaucracy, a 'one-stop shop', better inter-regional cooperation, and a simple and cheap European patent.
The report addresses the importance of innovation in all its forms to the development of societies.
It does so whilst making significant contributions to a number of areas and making proposals - for example, on the increased dissemination and absorption of innovation in a number of sectors - which we consider opportune.
In the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, which I drafted, I sought to summarise the main points of our view and concerns in this area.
In particular, these focus on aspects also included in this report, which is where some of the contradictions it contains are to be found: the view of innovation as essentially a business opportunity; the emphasis given to the market, to competition, and to harnessing innovation for business purposes; the advocating of the Internal Market and EU patents.
The report sufficiently highlights innovation, which constitutes a necessary means of helping respond to many of the problems and challenges facing humanity today.
It should be a key element of public policy in areas like the environment, water, energy, transport, telecommunications, health and education, and should help resolve problems like the scarcity and efficient use of resources, waste recovery and treatment, food quality and security, demographic changes, new epidemics, and conservation of nature and biodiversity.
However, the report includes a number of contradictions because it is founded on neoliberal ideas, defending the Internal Market and advocating EU patents, with which we disagree.
Instead of the announced 'Innovation Union', the result could be a veritable 'innovation divide' between the countries and regions that innovate most and the rest.
FP7 is the largest publicly funded research programme in the world and we must continue to highlight the benefits associated with it for SMEs.
in writing. - I am in agreement with the Merkies report because I strongly believe that innovation and creativity are key to the economic recovery of the Union and that the importance of converting the Union's scientific technological breakthroughs into new goods and services cannot be overstated.
Moreover, I am convinced that in a post-crisis Europe, any Single Market strategy has to be formulated in such a way as to maintain and enhance social cohesion, ensure market integrity and economic sustainability and foster innovation.
This is why I endorse the Commission's initiative for a European Social Innovation pilot which ensures that innovative ideas for the creation of products, services and business models are linked to and, more importantly, meet the social needs of the EU's citizens and consumers.
Confronted with a global economy which is in crisis, the European Parliament has stressed the importance of making Europe more innovative and efficient by adapting to the new challenges of the 21st century.
All have their role to play.
Thus, we must, for example, modernise our education systems and fill in knowledge gaps in the sciences and in engineering.
The European Union must enable the creation of new financing instruments promoting research spending and private investments.
Patents are currently far too expensive; we absolutely must reduce the costs associated with creating them.
Finally, faced with the 'brain-drain' phenomenon, it is important to encourage the retention of researchers in Europe.
That is why I voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which highlights, in particular, the concept of social innovation and emphasises the active role that regions and local authorities can play in innovation.
Finally, we must promote a system for protecting intellectual property rights that is balanced and respects inventors' rights while, at the same time, offering our citizens the widest possible access to knowledge: such are the challenges to be met and which innovation could contribute towards in future.
I voted in favour of this document, because under Article 179(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Union shall 'encourage undertakings, including small and medium-sized undertakings, research centres and universities in their research and technological development activities of high quality; it shall support their efforts to cooperate with one another, aiming, notably, at permitting researchers to cooperate freely across borders and at enabling undertakings to exploit the internal market potential to the full, in particular, through the opening up of national public contracts, the definition of common standards and the removal of legal and fiscal obstacles to that cooperation'.
The European Commission must translate the current 'Innovation Union' strategic document into an action plan with specific objectives and with measurable and time-framed targets.
The Commission must monitor progress regularly, assessing obstacles and putting forward a mechanism to improve the regular provision of reports to the European Parliament and the Council.
The Spanish Socialist delegation has voted in favour of the Merkies report on the Innovation Union: transforming Europe for a post-crisis world, because we agree with and are committed to the fundamental principles the report sets forth, which lay down the groundwork for transition to an intelligent, sustainable and fair European economy.
Nonetheless, I wish to point out that our vote in favour of the report as a whole does not mean that we support the agreement reached by the majority of the Council on enhanced cooperation, as it excludes the Spanish language from the European patent.
Our vote against the section introducing enhanced cooperation bears witness to our strong opposition to this matter.
The instrument for enhanced cooperation will have a direct impact on the internal market, territorial cohesion and the right of the citizens of the Member States to an EU patent governed by language regulations that provide sufficient legal certainty.
Innovation may result in the development and reinvention of the European Union once the current crisis is over.
However, we must be totally realistic and propose specific working instruments which will allow the correlation of innovation efforts at European, national and regional level.
European innovation policy must be focused mainly on devising and specifically meeting objectives relating to the major challenges which the European Union is facing.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The Innovation Union is intended not only to provide an answer to shared problems facing our societies but, at the same time, to increase Europe's competitiveness and point to ways out of the economic crisis.
The Innovation Union should not only provide an answer to shared problems, but also increase Europe's competitiveness and find a way out of the economic crisis.
What is needed is a common path towards an equitable and stable economy.
Only a united Europe will be able to realise the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Moreover, innovations of this kind, where the focus absolutely should remain on research, would help to maintain high living standards in Europe.
The report received my vote because allowing individual citizens to play a part in shaping society represents a positive step.
The report clarifies what goes without saying; that it is impossible to support innovation without supporting research and education.
Data available to date illustrate that - roughly - a mere 2.7% of European GDP will be channelled into research at the end of the decade, despite the Member States' clear commitment to spend at least 3% for that purpose.
At the same time, the Member States are citing the crisis as the reason for cutbacks in spending on education.
This report 'on Innovation Union: transforming Europe for a post-crisis world' includes a series of measures that constitute major social challenges.
The rapporteur introduces the key idea of creating a union between all Europeans for innovation.
A joint approach on issues like health could ensure a longer life, with proper care and medication, all while reducing costs.
in writing. - More investment in research and innovation is essential to guarantee a sustainable and competitive future for our economies.
That is why Innovation Union is one of the flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
This phrase takes on its full meaning in this post-global recession period during which we are seeing speedier economic recovery in the United States and still unashamed growth in the emerging powers referred to as the BRIC group.
The ultimate irony is that Switzerland, which is not a member of the EU, remains the European champion of innovation.
in writing. - We broadly supported the draft report and submitted a series of amendments which have mostly been included, for instance: an emphasis on green priority objectives: energy and climate change, resource efficiency, regeneration of biological resources and promoting social cohesion; addressing eco-innovation at all stages, including design, through the adoption of a properly funded and ambitious eco-innovation action plan, as well as the adoption of a strategy for promoting product/service systems and function-oriented business models; promoting the use of open standards as drivers for innovation and open access to publicly funded research, as well as focusing public financing on socially valuable fields where knowledge is created as a public good, such as inducement prizes in the health sector (we also tried, with varying degrees of success, to propose better wording for IPR issues); we managed to retain the wording welcoming the Commission's efforts to prevent IPR from constituting a barrier to competition and innovation.
If we fail to transform Europe into an Innovation Union, the economies of the 27 Member States will, in fact, be destined to decline, resulting in a loss of talent and ideas.
Innovation is the key to achieving sustainable growth and helping to create a more just and environmentally friendly society.
in writing. - I support this report as it is key to the post-crisis recovery and to addressing the major challenges in society.
During the vote on the parliamentary report on Innovation Union, I was keen to support the amendment rejecting the idea of controlling innovation by channelling towards innovative activities the resources from the structural funds and from certain sections of the common agricultural policy funds.
Of course, innovation should be encouraged, but this should not be done in a manner that is detrimental to other fundamental policies for the European Union's future, such as the common agricultural policy.
The CAP should be reformed by concentrating on a few fundamental objectives, but the only integrated policy of the European Union must not be plundered.
I therefore consider it essential that the European Union adopt a true innovation strategy, taking into account the Europe 2020 strategy of smart specialisation, with a view to reinforcing support for research, development and innovation (RDI) as a key element of the Union's future, extending it into all the areas, sectors of activity and social agents of which it is comprised.
An innovation policy that is consistent and integrated, and has a long-term vision will enable us to leverage strengths and resolve weaknesses detected at regional level.
It is vital to adapt and simplify development policy, for example, the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because I believe that the Innovation Union can help to address today's societal challenges.
I agree with the report that Member States should make use of the structural funds to support research, development and innovation (R&amp;D&amp;I) objectives that target social challenges, with the aim of increasing prosperity in Europe.
Enhancing cross-border cooperation is also imperative, as is encouraging citizens to create innovative new businesses.
I therefore supported this report, which notably points the finger at the high costs associated with the filing of patents in all Member States, and calls for a speedy agreement on the single European patent.
I am also pleased to see that proposals by my political family have been taken up - in particular, the creation of a European innovation fund, which will simplify access to European credits for our small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This is essential if Europe wants to remain at the highest level of the global economy.
I voted for Mrs Merkies' report because the final version provides a better balance than the original version, which was too focused on the enabling roles of citizens instead of enterprises.
Indeed, enterprises deserve a leading role in research and innovation, partly because we must remember that EU policies on the subject grew and developed through the promotion of policies aimed at strengthening collaboration between industry, educational systems and research institutions.
I therefore believe that the report we have voted on represents a useful contribution to the ongoing debate on a future joint strategic programme to support research and innovation in the EU.
I am voting for this proposal given that the crisis has been wiping out millions of jobs and has increased job insecurity and poverty; that 17% of EU residents are at risk of poverty; that 23 million EU residents are unemployed; that much domestic work takes place in the informal economy, under precarious employment conditions and/or as undeclared work and that, in addition to this, in industrialised countries, domestic work accounts for between 5% and 9% of all employment; that the vast majority of the people employed in that sector are women; that such work is undervalued, underpaid and informal; and that domestic workers' vulnerability means they are often discriminated against and subjected to unfair or abusive treatment.
I welcome and support the International Labour Organisation (ILO) initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers.
I call on the EU countries that are members of the ILO to adopt these instruments at the ILO conference in June 2011.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
Domestic workers are often discriminated against and can easily be subjected to unequal, unfair or abusive treatment.
I welcome the ILO initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by recommendations on decent work for domestic workers.
While most domestic workers are precarious workers, who are often discriminated against and sometimes exploited, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has decided to press for the adoption of a resolution while questioning the European Commission about its actions in relation to this category of workers.
Note, however, that this is only the first stage: now we must ensure that the Member States ratify this convention once it is adopted.
I fully support the ILO's initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) is currently working on drawing up a convention on domestic workers.
Adopting this ILO convention on domestic workers will be an essential element in ensuring that domestic workers' human, social and employment rights are respected.
This work is often insecure, undervalued and undeclared.
I voted in favour of this report to enable the transformation of a report which is all too often about exploitation and the law, in an area which represents between 5 and 9% of all jobs within the European Union.
in writing. - I supported this resolution on the ILO convention on Decent Work for Domestic Workers.
The European Parliament resolution further calls on the EU countries which are members of the ILO to adopt these instruments at the ILO conference in June 2011 and calls on the EU Member States to ratify and implement the convention and recommendation quickly.
In some countries, much domestic work takes place in the informal economy, under precarious employment conditions and/or as undeclared work.
In industrialised countries, domestic work accounts for between 5 and 9% of all employment, with the vast majority of the people employed in that sector being women.
The adoption, ratification and implementation of the ILO convention can have an impact by reducing the numbers of working poor and improve the position of the large number of women on the labour market.
In Europe, close to two immigrant women out of three have low-skilled jobs, often in the sector of healthcare or domestic work.
These women contribute to our economy, yet they suffer very poor working conditions and violations of their most basic rights.
The ball is now in the court of the Member States, as they have to commit to ratify this convention.
The level of trust between employer and employee required by such activity makes it advisable not to overload the working relationship with excessive formality but, at the same time, means that the worker should be able to exercise their profession with dignity.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, could be another step in the right direction.
This European Parliament resolution addresses the proposed International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers.
Although the EU is formally barred from participating because it is the Member States that are members, it is aware of its responsibilities to cooperate with the ILO and did not therefore want to fail to contribute to an area that we could say comes under the heading 'fundamental rights'.
It is work carried out in the home - childcare and elderly-care facilities - that is included in the Europe 2020 strategy and represents 5% to 9% of all work undertaken in the EU, with the trend being towards growth.
However, domestic workers - the majority of whom are women and immigrants - are often subjected to exploitation by their bosses, who do not guarantee their social rights.
The adoption of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, is a significant step forward, and we view it positively.
These two groups are the most vulnerable and the most susceptible to violence or sexual abuse.
Many of these domestic workers work in scarcely decent conditions, are subject to intense exploitation, and are not guaranteed rights such as the right to social security, to health and safety protection, to maternity protection, working time limits, to rest, and to freedom of association and representation.
We consider it important to move towards the adoption of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, the majority of whom are women, and an increasing percentage of them illegal immigrants.
These two groups are the most vulnerable and the most susceptible to violence or sexual abuse and it would therefore be very positive if a decisive step were taken on this matter at the upcoming ILO conference.
The severely exploitative and discriminatory conditions under which many of those engaged in domestic work operate are well known.
For the most part, domestic workers work under precarious conditions, frequently find themselves in legally dubious administrative situations which make their situation even less stable, and are often victims of discrimination, inequality and unfair or abusive treatment.
We must obtain a legal framework which enables us to improve the rights of these workers and to promote decent working conditions.
The vast majority of the people employed in this sector are women and such work is undervalued, underpaid and informal.
Domestic workers' vulnerability means they are often discriminated against and can easily be subjected to unequal, unfair or abusive treatment.
The adoption, ratification and implementation of the ILO convention would not only improve the position of a large number of women on the labour market for domestic work by guaranteeing them decent working conditions, but would also enhance their degree of social inclusion.
With this resolution, the European Parliament intends to express its support for the initiative of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers.
In fact, migrant workers accepting low-skilled temporary jobs on the edges of the labour market or jobs as domestic workers are exposed to multiple forms of discrimination.
These workers are often exposed to poverty and irregular conditions, are more likely to be victims of mistreatment, paid irregularly, or subjected to violence or sexual abuse, and are less likely to approach the authorities to seek protection and claim their rights, for fear of being returned to their country of origin and/or punished by their employers.
I support the aim of the convention to take steps towards legal recognition of domestic work as a professional activity, extending rights to all domestic workers in order to prevent violations and abuse, and in order to establish a legal framework that guarantees that work cannot take place outside a regulated setting.
in writing. - I support this resolution on the proposed International Labour Organisation convention on domestic workers.
A significant part of domestic work is undeclared, precarious and underpaid, and domestic workers, mostly women, are vulnerable to abuse, especially when working abroad.
The adoption of this ILO convention can help reduce the numbers of working poor, improve working conditions and facilitate the social inclusion of some of the most vulnerable workers.
Domestic workers are often penalised for the informal nature of their work.
Throughout the world, and in poor countries in particular, domestic services are among the lowest paid jobs.
These jobs often lack correct contracts and social benefits.
The reason why I voted against the European Parliament's resolution is the wording in paragraph 13, in which the EU Member States are called on to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, something that no EU Member State has done as yet.
Domestic work, often insecure, undervalued and undeclared, represents 5% to 9% of total employment in industrialised countries.
The majority of these domestic workers are women and immigrants, who are easier to exploit and underpay.
Adopting this ILO convention on domestic workers will be an essential element in ensuring human and social rights are respected, by granting domestic work the same status as any other work and by providing a legal framework for domestic workers.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament's resolution inviting the Member States to commit regarding the ILO's draft convention on domestic workers.
This convention will enable us to better fight against the unacceptable working conditions of too many employees in this sector, who are overwhelmingly women and, for many, immigrant workers, in particular, undocumented immigrants.
It will supplement other conventions of the ILO or of other international organisations.
The European Parliament also advocated the ratification by the EU and its Member States of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers.
The main function of the organisation is to establish international labour and social standards.
For the ILO, 2010 was the year of domestic workers.
I am voting for this proposal, given that antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is an animal health issue for the European livestock sector, especially when treatment failure occurs; that guidelines on the prudent use of antimicrobials have already been issued in several Member States, which has led to a reduction in the usage of antimicrobials; that the livestock sector - dairy, beef meat, pig and poultry meat, eggs, sheep and goat milk and meat production - plays a major role in the European agricultural economy; and that farmers' primary goal is to keep their livestock healthy and productive through good agricultural practices relating to hygiene, proper feed, appropriate husbandry and responsible animal health management.
I therefore call on the Commission to develop a broad, multiannual action plan against AMR within the framework of the EU animal health strategy (2011-2015).
When used properly, antimicrobials are a useful tool to help farmers keep their livestock healthy and productive and ensure their well-being.
The ultimate objective of this motion for a resolution is to maintain antimicrobials as an effective tool for combating disease, both in animals and in humans, while restricting their use to cases where it is strictly necessary.
I voted in favour of this report.
It must be ensured, however, that the financial and administrative burden on farmers is not increased because of any increased surveillance and monitoring of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in food producing and companion animals.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
I agree that the Member States should perform regular systematic surveillance and monitoring of AMR in food producing animals, without creating additional financial or administrative burdens for farmers or other animal owners or veterinarians.
I agree that the Commission must hold talks at international level in order to ban antimicrobials as growth promoters in animal feed, and to bring this matter up in its bilateral negotiations with third countries.
It is positive that a reduction in antibiotic use has been recorded, and the publication of guidelines on the prudent use of antibiotics in a number of Member States has contributed to this.
In fact, this resistance affects both humans and animals, and can be transmitted from human to animal and vice versa.
I am well aware that AMR in humans is often caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic medicines and incorrect treatments, but it can also be through the transmission, via animals, of pathogenic bacteria carrying AMR genes, with serious consequences for public and animal health.
We are therefore faced with a truly cross-cutting issue requiring a coordinated approach at EU level that must seek to ensure that antimicrobials can remain an effective tool for combating disease, in both people and animals, must encourage prudent and responsible usage, and must limit any recourse to them to cases where it is strictly necessary.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on antibiotic resistance because I believe that the Commission and the Member States need to adopt measures to address the growing problem of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in animals, given that the use of antibiotics in animal feed also contributes to antibiotic resistance in humans.
Resistance to antibiotics is a serious problem affecting the livestock industry, so I share the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's concerns on this issue and agree with its proposals, not just to reduce animals' resistance to treatment with antibiotics, but also to encourage other means of combating animal diseases that do not necessarily involve the use of antibiotics.
As regards the use of antimicrobials as growth promoters in animal feed, I would draw attention to the fact that this endangers the health, not only of the animals, which become resistant to the antibiotics, but also of people, as products of animal origin enter the food chain, thereby affecting humans.
A study of the possibility of banning the use of antimicrobials in animal feed is therefore urgently needed, as is promotion of measures to reduce resistance to antibiotics, thereby ensuring better animal health and increased food safety.
This European Parliament resolution tackles the problem of animal resistance to antibiotics, which is a situation with disastrous consequences.
This issue has implications in terms of human health, particularly for those who work with these animals, but also of economics, as the competitive future of EU animal husbandry is at stake.
Parliament has already debated this issue more than once and has adopted a number of initiatives, like the database, which should be continuously updated.
However, the time has come to move from words to actions so that the legislation in force ceases to be a dead letter.
As such, I voted for this joint motion for a resolution, adopted by a broad majority in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as it is a very balanced text whose proposals not only protect human health and defend animal welfare, but also ensure companies' viability.
This report contributes to orienting joint data collection activities in this area, analysing results and proposing solutions.
Its aim is to create a full picture of when, where, how and on which animals the antimicrobials are actually used today, without creating additional financial or administrative burdens for farmers or other animal owners, taking into account the fact that farming practice and intensity is different from one Member State to another.
We would stress the importance of developing systems for animal husbandry, which reduce the need for antimicrobials to be prescribed, as well as research into new antimicrobials.
This document contributes to orienting joint data collection activities in this area, analysing their results and proposing their respective solutions.
As such, its aim is to create a full picture of when, where, how and on which animals the antimicrobials are actually used today, without creating additional financial or administrative burdens for farmers or other animal owners, taking into account the fact that farming practice and intensity is different from one Member State to another.
It is also important to undertake research into new antimicrobials, as well as into other alternatives, and we would stress the importance of developing effective systems for animal husbandry which reduce the need for antimicrobials to be prescribed.
I voted in favour of this document because the ultimate objective is to maintain antimicrobials as an effective tool to combat disease, both in animals and in humans, while only using antimicrobials when absolutely necessary.
In my opinion, we need to establish good practices for animal husbandry which minimise the risk of antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
The Commission should work towards an international ban on antimicrobials as growth promoters in animal feed, and bring this matter up in its bilateral negotiations with third countries such as the United States.
We must emphasise the logical connection between animal health and the use of antimicrobials, as well as the link between animal health and human health.
Around 50% of the antibiotics prescribed in Europe are used in veterinary medicine.
Many of the well-known antibiotics have today become either ineffective or unreliable.
I therefore strongly endorse the resolution of this House that expressly calls on the Commission and the Member States to tackle the growing problem of antibiotic resistance amongst animals in a responsible way.
in writing. - This resolution recognises that antimicrobials, when used properly, are a useful tool to help farmers keep their livestock healthy and productive and to ensure the animals' well-being.
However, it also acknowledges the need for tight control and monitoring, and I was therefore able to vote for it.
Guidelines on the prudent use of antimicrobials have already been issued in several Member States, which has led to a reduction in the use of antimicrobials.
Despite positive results, there is still much to be done in relation to this problem.
Today, Parliament adopted an important decision on antibiotic resistance.
In my opinion, it is very important to collect and analyse information on the use of animal health products, including antibiotic substances.
It is also necessary to ensure that these products are used effectively and moderately and do not pose a risk to the effectiveness of measures for combating human illnesses when antibiotic agents are chosen as a treatment in medicine.
Although, from 2005-2009 in the EU, tests for monitoring the residues of antibacterial agents in animals and animal foodstuffs show positive results, we can still say that there is no controlled trend towards reduction, only fragmented fluctuations.
Thus, the aim of carefully applying antimicrobial treatment and implementing comprehensive monitoring in order to better coordinate sources of human and veterinary research is very important for guaranteeing human health and animal welfare.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
Every year, 25 000 people die across Europe from causes linked to or associated with antimicrobial resistance.
The resolution on antimicrobial resistance (AMR) comes at a time when AMR represents an animal health problem for the European livestock sector, which needs to be able to rely on antimicrobial treatments being safe and effective in the near future.
The administration of antimicrobials to animals has to take into account the potential threat of AMR in humans, frequently caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic medicines, by incorrect treatments and through the constant exposure of pathogens to antimicrobial agents in hospitals.
I voted for the report because the transmission of pathogenic bacteria carrying AMR genes constitutes a particular threat to people, through the intake of said bacteria and/or through daily contact with animals.
There is a need for better coordination of human and veterinarian research on resistance, as well as further research on new antibiotics, alternative treatments and animal disease prevention and control practices.
Antibiotics are used frequently to ensure animal health.
The problem that can arise is that both humans and animals can develop antimicrobial resistance (AMR), the human health impact of which could be serious.
Welcomes the efforts made by the Commission and its agencies as regards joint data collection activities in this field, in particular, the initiative in 2009 to create ESVAC (European Surveillance of Veterinary Antimicrobial Consumption); regrets that not all Member States have yet joined the ESVAC network and calls on more countries to do so; calls on the Commission to provide the ESVAC network with sufficient financial resources to perform its tasks; calls on the Commission to without delay provide an adequate legal framework in order to give Member States the authority to perform an efficient data collection; 2.
Calls on the Commission to strive for a data collection which is harmonised and comparable, also with activities undertaken in third countries such as the United States.
Resistant animal germs can be passed on to humans, however, and represent a major health risk - the result may even be antibiotic resistance in humans.
It was therefore only right to vote in favour of this report in order to finally promote livestock production that manages without antimicrobial substances.
This resistance may be transferred from animals to humans, and thereby pose a risk to health, or complicate the treatment of some diseases.
I have therefore supported the report submitted and I expect the Commission to submit in the near future a proposal for measures to monitor the use of antibiotics in the animal husbandry sector.
I am voting for this report because culture can be a key element in international relations by contributing to development, inclusion, democracy and conflict prevention.
It should therefore be included in the development of the European External Action Service (EEAS).
In this new digital economy, the cultural and creative industries (CCIs) represent great potential and are capable of encouraging the expression of European cultural diversity and the spread of economic and social progress.
We should not underestimate the fact that these industries make up one of the most dynamic sectors in Europe and contribute 2.6% of EU gross domestic product by offering quality employment to some 5 million European citizens.
With the Green Paper published by the Commission one year ago, the cultural and creative industries obtained their rightful recognition, carving out a crucial role in a European vision of culture based on the information society, innovation and entrepreneurship.
We must not forget that the worldwide success of European industry is founded on the great professionalism and creativity of our artists, who should be protected and encouraged via tangible incentives to keep up their good work.
The fundamental aspect of European culture is that it is not intended to be promoted in external relations in a simplified way, but as something vibrant and alive thanks to its particular features.
Just as we talk about European values, rights and freedoms, we must also talk about Europe's cultures, their diversity, creative plurality and the role of European ambassador which each creative element of national culture can play to promote Europe as a whole.
I voted in favour of this report.
Culture plays a role in bilateral agreements on development and trade, and through measures such as the European instruments for Development Cooperation, for Stability, for Democracy and Human Rights and for Pre-Accession, the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), the Eastern Partnership, the Union for the Mediterranean and the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR), which mostly allocate resources to various cultural programmes.
This report sends a clear message: the European Union must incorporate a consistent and coordinated cultural strategy into its foreign policy.
As a creator of integration, tolerance and mutual comprehension, culture is an essential component of our societies which we must promote in our diplomatic efforts in favour of human rights and democracy.
This report emphasises, however, that the cultural dimension of external actions still remains underdeveloped and undercoordinated, and that it is necessary to adopt a common and coherent strategy in this area.
We have also renewed our support for a free Internet by condemning Internet censorship and the threats that it poses to human rights, as well as to access to and sharing of global cultural heritage.
In my opinion, European values such as respect for human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms, are also conveyed by our cultural products.
Multilingualism, e-skills and cultural awareness allow us to seize many opportunities offered by today's global labour market.
A coherent, coordinated EU strategy on culture in the EU's external actions does not currently exist.
We also see fragmentation and diffusion, not only between Member States, but also between different departments and institutions of the European Union.
This fragmentation, without a common strategy, prevents the efficient use of resources and budget allocations for the cultural sector.
I support this report by my group colleague because it underlines the cross-cutting nature and the importance of culture in all aspects of life, and argues that culture needs to be taken into consideration in all EU external policies.
I therefore welcome all cultural programmes whose objective is to create a European identity from shared values and mutual understanding.
As such, I believe in the power that certain cultural initiatives can have on relations within the Union, as well as diplomatic relations with third countries.
The cultural elements of the various countries can be used as bridges towards peaceful cooperation with a view to stability.
in writing. - The cultural dimensions of EU external actions should not be overstated, and it is important that Commissioner Ashton continues to build this into her work with the EEAS.
This report, which I support in general, is on this important issue.
In fact, many of the proposals included in this report, such as promoting exchanges for young people and strengthening ties with civil society organisations in third countries, are proposals that I advocated in my report on the Review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Southern Dimension and were adopted by this House.
From this report, I would also stress the respect for the preservation/promotion of linguistic/cultural richness in every Member State; the importance of disseminating European cultural values as a means of promoting fundamental rights, democracy and good governance; and, finally, the importance of there being a cultural 'attaché' in each of the EU's representations abroad.
There are many who wonder whether there is such a thing as a European culture, often contrasting it with a Europe of cultures or a 'Europeanisation' of cultures.
It is this cultural dimension that the EU should take more into account in its diplomatic efforts, particularly with a view to promoting human rights, democracy and development in third countries.
To achieve this, the High-Representative should set up a 'Cultural diplomacy' Directorate-General within the European External Action Service, and appoint someone to be responsible for cultural relations and for promoting European culture in every EU representation in third countries.
At the same time, we should consider introducing cultural visas for artists and for all those working in the cultural sector.
As well as an economic power, the European Union is also a cultural power whose influence goes far beyond its borders.
The fact that various countries have traditional historical ties with European Member States strengthens Europe's ability to permeate other cultures and to make itself understood in other parts of the world.
The importance of the factor of language as a vehicle for maintaining and deepening these contacts cannot be overstated.
A foreign policy like the one that the Union is proposing to develop cannot neglect the cultural dimension, but rather must keep it in mind as an asset; as a value that is not always tangible but is particularly important in a world increasingly susceptible to the 'soft power' of states and international organisations.
The European External Action Service (EEAS) will have an important role to play in this regard.
This report, by Mrs Schaake, is on the cultural dimensions of the European Union's external actions.
Although it may seem strange to talk about culture, which is a non-essential good, when many Europeans are faced daily with problems obtaining goods essential to their survival, we cannot neglect it: instead, we must think that, in addition to being fundamental to our quality of life, it can and must be an opportunity for economic development and creating jobs for young people, as well as being, obviously, a factor of unity and cohesion between peoples.
The EU has to be a community of cultural values in which diversity is an asset, and a factor in unity and cohesion, or, as the rapporteur puts it, 'an instrument for global peace and stability'.
I am voting for this report, as I agree with its proposals and hope that culture helps find solutions for emerging from the crisis, and that it will be an asset to the welfare of the European public.
This report confirms the understanding of culture current in the European Union: an exploitative vision of culture that considers it at the service of foreign policy through the concept of cultural diplomacy.
This report also has an underlying fallacy that keeps cropping up in EU discourse on culture: that there is a single European identity and a single European culture, and, even more so, that it is based on values like liberty, democracy, tolerance and solidarity.
European culture is, as is well known, indebted to many cultures in various parts of the world, like the people subjected to European colonialism, for example.
This is a report that misrepresents and exploits the notion of culture.
This report confirms the understanding of culture current in the European Union: an exploitative vision of culture that considers it at the service of foreign policy through the concept of cultural diplomacy.
This report also has an underlying fallacy that keeps cropping up in EU discourse on culture: that there is a single European identity and a single European culture, and, even more so, that it is based on values like liberty, democracy, tolerance and solidarity.
European culture is, as is well known, indebted to many cultures in various parts of the world, like the people subjected to European colonialism, for example.
Culture equally has economic value: Europe's cultural industries contribute to European entrepreneurship, innovation and business and the EU's diverse cultural landscape makes it the most attractive global tourist destination in the world.
A coherent, coordinated EU strategy on culture in the EU's external actions does not currently exist and needs to be developed.
The European Union should make use of this heritage in the promotion of integration and cooperation in countries which do not belong to the Union.
We should not forget that the European Union is made up of 27 very different Member States.
I agree that a common European policy requires the development of a coherent strategy on external cultural actions.
My support for Mrs Schaake's report is dictated precisely by the boost that we need to give to reinforcing this shared awareness.
Culture should play a unifying role externally as well as internally, and therefore, in the relations of the Secretariat for Economic Monitoring (SEAE), European culture could be the standard-bearer of European values, which, through dialogue with cultures outside Europe, should contribute to peaceful cooperation and constructive understanding between peoples.
It is important for the world to experience the culture of the EU's Member States in the diversity of its content and form.
European interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically devised through cooperation and partnership: both through cultural programmes and when cultural aspects are an integral part of economic, foreign and security and development policies.
European identity in all its diversity, as well as European values, are manifested through these cultural expressions.
The report on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries is closely connected in many respects with the report on the Innovation Union.
I have reservations over the current labelling of cultural works as goods and services.
For example, a literary work, or even a work of art or music is, first and foremost, an essential manifestation of the talent of the artist and a social response.
Unfortunately, a coherent, coordinated strategy on the role of culture in the EU's external actions does not currently exist.
Our common foreign policy must be based on cultural diplomacy as Europe's position in the world can be strengthened through culture, as an integral part of its economic, development and security policies.
Furthermore, the EU's diverse cultural landscape gives us the distinction of being the most attractive tourist destination in the world.
I welcome the concrete suggestions presented in this report for the involvement of civil society, artists, educators, students and entrepreneurs in shaping the content of external cultural relations.
At the same time, we absolutely need to take into account the huge potential offered by new technologies, which are both a source of information and a channel facilitating the freedom of expression.
I think that it would be useful for the European Parliament to include culture on the agenda of discussions with other parliaments in the world, in order to help establish a general practice for European external action.
Europe is a community of freedom, responsibilities and democratic values.
European interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically devised through cooperation and partnership, both through cultural programmes, and when cultural aspects are an integral part of economic, foreign and security and development policies.
European identity, in all its diversity, as well as European values, are manifested through these cultural expressions.
In the development of the European External Action Service (EEAS), it is important to explore and anchor the role culture has and should have in the EU's external actions.
Mainstreaming culture can lead to mutual understanding, peaceful cooperation and stability, as well as to economic benefits.
If globalisation has incontrovertibly favoured the proliferation of exchanges, we must fight against the danger of a uniformity of cultures.
Most of the time, cultural creation describes or expresses a vision, a commitment, a taking of sides that can be pertinent or impertinent.
We must rethink the system of global governance.
We must create a new political space of global dimensions, taking account of the political dimension of cultural diversity.
We have hitherto been concentrating far too much on promoting cultural diversity via the Muslim immigrant population without ensuring that our own culture, in turn, is recognised in the countries of the Islamic world.
What will be most important is to keep Christian roots in mind and to give greater priority in foreign and development policy to the protection of Christians in other countries, as they are, in the end, the most persecuted minority around the globe.
There can be no doubt that cultural diplomacy helps to build trust and cultivate lasting relations between citizens of the EU and citizens of third countries, and there can be no doubt that Europe's comparative advantage in the culture sector is strong and is therefore a valuable political tool for its foreign policy.
New technologies bring new opportunities to spread the European cultural heritage and strengthen transnational ties.
As the Internet is a global meeting place, the EU should develop specific policies to promote European culture.
The Europeana website is a move in this direction; unfortunately, however, it has not realised its potential as yet.
Nor should the contribution of culture to the economies of the European countries be overlooked.
This report is on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions.
The members of this network have significant experience, not only of working in the field, but also of organising cultural activities with appropriate distance from the governments, which is crucial in this sector.
However, there are many third countries seeking to specifically address the European Union and not solely the individual Member States.
As such, only a common strategy will prevent the existing fragmentation, which impedes the complete and efficient use of the resources and budgets dedicated to culture.
For all these reasons, I voted for this report.
Culture plays an extremely important role in the European Union, which is an area aiming to be 'united in diversity'.
It is no accident that the report's explanatory statement begins with an interesting citation: 'Rock and roll, culturally speaking, was a decisive element in loosening up communist societies and bringing them closer to a world of freedom' (Andras Simonyi).
Secondly, the undeniable economic impact that could result from a commitment to disseminating European culture should be stressed.
It is, then, a case of disseminating and protecting European values at global level, and of guaranteeing, on the widest possible range of levels, respect for their core aspects, such as freedom of expression on the Internet.
In voting for the report by Mrs Schaake, I am making a plea for the institution of a genuine European cultural diplomacy in order to promote our values outside the EU.
Europe must do the same if it is to continue playing a major role on the world stage.
This report contains several proposals to achieve this: the proposal to designate a person in every EU representation in third countries, for example, to coordinate cultural relations and interaction between the EU and those countries, or the proposal that the draft European External Action Service (EEAS) organisational chart contain posts tailored to cultural aspects and that a coordination unit be set up.
Moreover, it seems opportune that third countries be involved to a greater extent in EU programmes devoted to culture as much as mobility, youth, education and training: the accessibility to these programmes on the part of young nationals of those countries must be facilitated.
in writing. - The report did envisage at first the field of external relations at the EU level almost exclusively under the new media perspectives.
Some of the recommendations adopted in the Committee on Culture and Education do not really create something new, like an information website on EU culture programmes and external relations, together with the calendar of EU events in the whole world plus contacts with Civil Society.
Some articles, like Article 44 on supporting national efforts to implement the protection and preservation of cultural heritage, illegal trade of heritage or products of cultural creation, do not give much sense to the issue itself.
In a nutshell, the report fails really to tackle the issue and assembles bits and pieces alongside the present existing possibilities to put culture on the agenda both for the EU and between the EU and third countries.
It is a new chapter in an effort to fully use culture as a tool for peace.
The sharing of cultural heritage between individuals is important both within the EU, for the consolidation of a European identity, and in terms of the Union's relations with third countries.
This is why I support strengthening external action in that direction.
Lastly, I believe that we should increasingly emphasise the use of new technologies, which can increase the number of ways to access cultural content.
It is essential for the EU to play a leading role in this context, developing definite policies that can protect the Internet against forms of censure typical of repressive regimes.
Europe must do the same; it must defend its cultural model and its values on the international stage.
Thanks to this report, the European Union is taking stock of the influence Europe can have if it succeeds in adding a cultural dimension to its diplomacy.
It is the case that, in waiting for the implementation of a genuine common diplomacy and a genuine European defence policy, European soft power and its cultural diplomacy are some of the few means of influence at our disposal.
I endorsed the report on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions.
In particular, I would like to stress the necessity of conducting a review of existing programmes with a cultural component and of drafting a Green Paper and a communication from the Commission outlining concrete policies for the role of culture in the EU's external actions.
A common strategy can foster the development of Europe's cultural resources, the forging and deepening of social relations, the exchange of good practices and improvement of the EU's cultural position in the international arena.
It is also important to provide for the appropriate training of EEAS staff with regard to cultural and digital aspects.
Culture is also an important factor in the fight for human rights and the support of democracy.
Cooperation in this area will help to establish dialogue with societies from different cultures.
I am also a supporter of what is called 'brand Europe', and the development and promotion of this, in such areas as support for talent, tourism and the propagation of universal values, for example, should be based on closer collaboration between the EU's Member States.
I am pleased that the report on the cultural dimensions of the EU's external actions, which affirms that culture must be at the heart of European diplomacy, has been adopted.
For all their diversity, Europeans share a great number of strong values, such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which must be extended to the international stage.
The development of new information technologies is making culture accessible to the greatest number.
The European Union must, in my opinion, seize this opportunity to assert its cultural uniqueness and encourage creativity.
I am bound to vote in favour of this report, which regards our culture no longer as a heritage of the past but as one of the driving forces of the European diplomacy of tomorrow.
It is therefore necessary to create a genuine single market for on-line content and services, take specific measures aimed at increasing the role of the CCIs as catalysts for innovation and structural change, bring together actors at regional, national and European level and create new products and services to generate growth and jobs.
Cultural and creative industries are currently also important drivers of economic and social innovation in many other sectors.
I voted in favour of this report.
Cultural and creative industries (CCIs) should be at the centre of a new European policy agenda, in line with the economic needs of the sector and measures aimed at adapting to innovations in the digital age.
I agree that in order to increase this sector's potential, the European Digital Agenda initiative must be implemented successfully in order to enable European CCIs to benefit fully from, and to adapt successfully to, all the opportunities created by far-reaching, high-speed broadband and by new wireless technologies.
This is because these industries, as well as participating in the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and the development of a European cultural heritage, also contribute to economic development by stimulating jobs, economic growth and wealth creation.
Through this vote, we are clearly committing ourselves to a greater recognition of the cultural sector by emphasising that its potential remains great because it always copes with legal or economic obstacles.
We also note the considerable progress that the Internet represents for our societies, even if it brings new challenges such as guaranteeing access for all and the economic model of the cultural sector.
Thus, the European Parliament, which is aware of the crucial role of culture in European society, has made a clear appeal for increasing support for cultural actors.
It is important to unlock the potential of cultural and creative industries (CCIs).
We need to analyse CCIs and the impact of their activities on the European economy, identifying, defining and describing them each in turn, in order to highlight their characteristics, better understand their goals and problems and implement more effective measures.
I voted in favour of this report, which aims to acknowledge and enhance the economic and social importance of the cultural and creative industries (CCIs).
Focusing EU attention on these industries and organising their potential through a coherent strategy, including funding, meets at least two of the priorities that Lega Nord has always upheld.
These are, firstly, the promotion and revival of local cultural heritage, which may be linguistic, musical, architectural or artistic in the broadest sense, in order to safeguard diversity and individuality of intellectual horizons in an age of generalisation, or rather trivialisation and devaluation of the cultural message.
Secondly, an institutional commitment to cultural and creative industries would enable talented young people to constructively channel their skills and ambitions, offering them launch platforms, some professional, that would then lead to new job opportunities, while saving them from frittering away their talents in areas that are culturally stagnant or simply unfit for purpose.
The cultural and creative industries are currently also important drivers of economic and social innovation in many other sectors.
The growth of the cultural and creative industries in the European Union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and their contribution to GDP.
I voted for the report by Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, which contains proposals for encouraging the development of cultural and creative industries.
The report asks for the creation of the status of European artist, so that artists may be able to enjoy satisfactory working conditions and appropriate measures with regard to tax systems, their right to work, social security rights and copyright, in order to improve their mobility across the EU.
I am also at one with the rapporteur in emphasising the need to preserve the specific nature of certain trades and the transfer of know-how, especially in the cultural, creative and crafts sector, and to guarantee mechanisms for knowledge transfer.
I welcome the interest shown in the potential of cultural and creative industries (CCIs).
I believe in the positive impact that their development can have both in economic terms, by creating jobs and contributing to gross domestic product (GDP), and in social terms, through the social and cultural integration of members of the public.
With almost 14 million jobs involved, and with sustained growth even during the crisis, it remains essential to show unfailing support for these industries, so great is their economic and cultural contribution.
In the last two decades, the growth of the cultural and creative industries (CCIs) has been exponential in terms of job creation and contribution to the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Member States.
There is therefore a need to exploit the potential of the digital age, to create an EU-wide momentum, and to stimulate the cultural sector, in order to equip these industries with innovative economic models.
This report, by Mrs Sanchez-Schmid, addresses how the European Union can unlock the potential of cultural and creative industries (CCIs).
I therefore voted for this report, because I believe in the potential of these creative industries and in their promising future.
Nevertheless, so that they are not in a position to be overtaken by international partners, there is a need to commit, quickly and firmly, to new technologies - in particular, information technology - and to development and innovation factors.
The EU should also support and encourage artistic creation, as well as the mobility of culture professionals, so that it becomes increasingly universal and globalising.
I voted in favour of this document because unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries necessitates the development, inter alia, of high quality artistic and cultural education, territorialisation, local partnerships, creation and creativity, the sharing of expertise, financing, public/private partnerships and the exchange of good practices.
The European Union must introduce measures to support the creative sector.
If cultural and creative industries are to maximise their role as a driving force, financing facilities backed up by solid expertise in the characteristics of cultural industries and an adapted taxation system must be introduced.
I voted in favour of this report because I consider it essential that the Commission pursues its efforts to ensure a better definition of the creative cultural industries (CCIs) as part of their greater recognition by civil society.
I think we need to ensure multi-disciplinary teaching programmes and insist on cooperation and partnership not only between educational institutions, students and professionals in the cultural and creative sector, but also between businesses of all sizes, between the public and the private sector, and between craftspeople and financial institutions.
They are part of the plan for meeting the 2020 objectives, and it is therefore important that we create good conditions for this sector - particularly within the area that I would like to highlight, namely copyright.
As pointed out in several places in the report, we should, of course, ensure that artists receive fair remuneration for their work.
I therefore believe that the Commission should take a holistic approach and look at the connection between licensing, private copyright fees and piracy.
I hope that this report can help to get this started and I look forward to an ambitious proposal from the Commission.
in writing. - I voted for this report because I believe this is a good time for the Commission's Green Paper, officially endorsing the economic and social importance of the sector, to prompt discussion on 'unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries'.
The growth of cultural and creative industries in the European Union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and of their contribution to GDP.
One important aspect is the digitisation of cultural productions, along with the need to create a proper single market for online content and services which will generate additional jobs.
In this same context, we also talk about resolving the issue of copyright, funding the cultural and creative industries, artists' mobility or the release of cultural productions.
It is therefore necessary to create a genuine single market for on-line content and services, take specific measures aimed at increasing the role of the cultural and creative industries as catalysts for innovation and structural change, bring together actors at regional, national and European level, and create new products and services to generate growth and jobs.
Rather, a trend can be perceived whereby migration and migrants are being increasingly placed at the heart of support for culture while native culture and tradition are pushed to one side.
The culture and creativity sectors have a dual role: they have an economic role, by supporting employment, growth and the creation of wealth and, above all, they have a cultural role, by contributing to the social and cultural development of citizens.
Firstly, we need to encourage the mobility and attractiveness of cultural factors, such as the mobility of artists, cultural workers and works of art and, secondly, we need to ensure that specific funding and economic support policies are put in place in the cultural sector, such as access to funds via the European Investment Bank.
This report on 'unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries' (CCIs) is based on the European Commission Green Paper on the same topic and I voted for it, as it is official recognition of the economic and social importance of this sector.
Within the European Union, and since the 1990s, the growth of the CCIs has been exponential in terms of job creation and its contribution to gross domestic product (GDP).
Artistic trades are part of our heritage and this knowledge needs to be passed on.
We should foster multidisciplinary education and allow for more exchanges between higher education institutions in this sector.
The Commission needs to ensure legal security in information and communication technologies so as to protect consumers and innovative creators.
It should also help local and regional authorities to develop networks to cooperate in the field of cultural tourism.
We need to help to ensure that these cultural and artistic trades are encouraged and made available to a wider audience.
The cultural and creative industries (CCIs) make a number of contributions.
Firstly, their intrinsic value in the recreation of cultural templates and in contributing to the construction of a common European identity.
Secondly, however, they constitute an economic activity that enables the creation of jobs and of products in circulation: in other words, it is a source of wealth in economic terms, too.
Moreover, it is a commitment that will allow the affirmation - and differentiation - of the added value that the EU is able to offer.
Therefore, I voted in favour of this report.
The cultural and creative industries represent 5 million jobs and 2.6% of the EU's GDP.
They are also one of the principal drivers of European growth, since they create new jobs and stimulate innovation.
They also bring an added value as a factor of social cohesion and play a major role in the promotion of the cultural and linguistic diversity of the EU.
It is therefore crucial from an economic as much as a social viewpoint to support these industries.
That is why I am voting in favour of this report.
In this way, I should like to encourage Member States and the European Commission to promote both artistic and cultural education among all age groups, from primary education through to higher or vocational education, and the entrepreneurial skills of professionals in the cultural sector, including in the context of lifelong learning.
In order to enable the deployment of these industries, it is equally essential to improve access to funding for professionals in this sector: to introduce microfinancing, develop patronage and public/private partnerships, consider introducing new, innovative funding instruments, and train professionals in the banking sector in the specific characteristics of these industries.
in writing. - This is a good time for the Commission's Green Paper, officially endorsing the economic and social importance of the sector, to prompt discussion on 'unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries'.
The growth of cultural and creative industries (CCIs) in the European Union since the 1990s has been exponential in terms of job creation and their contribution to GDP.
In addition, the creative sector makes a significant contribution to the development of information and communication technologies, and plays a major role at local, regional and national levels.
I voted for this report because I believe that the cultural and creative industries should constitute an added value for the Union.
Furthermore, a knowledge-based economy will help to protect European cultural diversity and to carry us towards social cohesion and employment.
In this context, to unlock this potential as well as possible, we must facilitate both the transfer of creative knowledge to new generations, but also the mobility of artists throughout Europe.
Promoting these industries will create significant new opportunities for regional development, local partnerships and possible partnerships with the private and public sector.
The European Commission Green Paper on unlocking the potential of cultural and creative industries (CCIs) aims to contribute to the European Union's economic growth and to job creation in its Member States.
In the report adopted today, the European Parliament advocates a genuine EU-wide strategy in this sector through the creation of new areas for experimentation, innovation and entrepreneurship; of support for mobility; and of promoting access to finance, to new financial instruments, and to greater involvement in regional and local collectives.
The rapporteur proposes the creation of pilot projects under the Erasmus and Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs programmes, as well as the creation of a European-level platform to promote the exchange of experiences.
The initiatives, which are of great interest to the regional- and local-level crafts sector, also include the development of a best practices network for regional and local collectives, and the implementation of consultation services on finance, to offer the sector's small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) better information on producing and distributing cultural and creative goods and services.
It is a report which shows clearly that the creative industry is responsible for 5 million jobs in the EU and for generating almost 3% of the EU's GDP.
I voted against this report, which draws cultural goods into a logic of the market and competition.
The 'cultural industries' and, as a consequence, the cultural goods that they produce, cannot be likened to enterprises like any other, on the grounds that they are producers of wealth and potentially job creators.
The evolution of our model of development, focused from now on on the knowledge economy, makes culture a strategically important sector.
It is not right that these products should be subject to VAT at the full standard rate while other cultural products benefit from tax reliefs.
I voted for Mrs Sanchez-Schmid's report on the potential of the European cultural and creative industries, which has not yet been fully unlocked.
These industries are an asset for the EU, partly because their exponential growth over the past 25 years has created tens of thousands of jobs.
It is therefore necessary to build a European strategy for these industries in which they have the opportunity to express their potential and gain recognition for their dual role as bearers of culture and entertainment and as creators of business and jobs.
I am voting for this motion for a resolution, and would express the same conviction as the rapporteur that awarding the title of European Capital of Culture to a city which was the site of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century would be an important step towards transcending historical European divisions and showcasing the new Europe.
I endorsed this resolution.
The European Capitals of Culture project helps to support the richness and diversity of European cultures and the features they share, as well as to promote greater mutual understanding between European citizens.
Although the decision on the European Capital of Culture for the years 2007 to 2019 applies only to the EU Member States, I agree with the resolution's call to award the title of European Capital of Culture exceptionally to Sarajevo in 2014.
Without forgetting what happened, I hope that this event will enable Europeans to have other, more agreeable memories of Sarajevo, and that it will contribute, above all, to bringing together the various ethnic groups of the country itself.
This resolution addresses Bosnia and Herzegovina's application for its capital, Sarajevo, to be considered European Capital of Culture in 2014.
The EU initiative 'European Capital of Culture' was created to highlight Europe's cultural richness and diversity, sharing it out and promoting mutual understanding amongst Europeans.
I voted in favour of this document because a Community action entitled European Capital of Culture has been established in order to highlight the richness and diversity of European cultures and the features they share, as well as to promote greater mutual understanding between Europeans.
In addition, it is noted that Sarajevo has a special place in European history and culture and will commemorate several important anniversaries in 2014, and the City Council of Sarajevo and local cultural operators have undertaken extensive preparations in their candidature for this title.
This would be an important step towards transcending past European divisions and showcasing the new Europe by awarding the title of European Capital of Culture to a city which was the scene of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which calls on the Council to award the title 'European Capital of Culture' exceptionally to Sarajevo in 2014.
By the way, it was culture that helped them to endure four years of war.
This mosaic-like city was and can once more become the living metaphor for Europe.
I am using my vote in favour to express my support for the European Parliament's call to the Council for Sarajevo to be named European Capital of Culture in 2014.
In fact, I agree with what the resolution says about how awarding the title of European Capital of Culture to a city which was the scene of such tragic events during the 20th century represents an important step towards overcoming Europe's past divisions and promoting the new Europe.
Although the decision establishing a Community action for the European Capital of Culture 2007-2019 only currently covers EU Member States, the truth is that the opportunity to win the title of European Capital of Culture has already been granted to cities of third countries on a number of occasions.
As such, and given the special place that Sarajevo occupies in European history and culture, I believe awarding it the title of European Capital of Culture 2014 would be justified, even for its symbolic value.
Sarajevo, a multicultural city embodying a genuine model of tolerance, incontestably occupies a particular place in history and in European culture.
It was also in this city that, between 1992 and 1996, during the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the longest siege that a capital city has endured in the history of modern warfare took place.
As the city, which wishes to turn its back on the past and looks forward enthusiastically to its future in Europe, will be marking several important anniversaries in 2014, I should like to see Sarajevo designated as the European Capital of Culture for that year.
in writing. - With this resolution, Parliament: (1) calls on the Council to award the title 'European Capital of Culture' exceptionally to Sarajevo in 2014; and (2) asserts its belief that this would be an important step towards transcending past European divisions and showcasing the new Europe by awarding the title 'European Capital of Culture' to a city which was the site of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century.
It is the only city in the world where in an area of one square kilometre, you can see buildings belonging to five religions: there are mosques, a Roman Catholic cathedral, an Orthodox church, a synagogue and a Protestant church.
Since the end of the war in 1995, Sarajevo is also being rebuilt, mainly with financial assistance from the European Union.
Sarajevo is looking to its European future with great enthusiasm.
Sarajevo occupies a very important place in Europeans' historical consciousness.
I support awarding the title of European Capital of Culture exceptionally to the city in 2014.
The initiative, which, for over 25 years, has allowed promotion of the riches and diversity of European cultures, will also help rebuild the city's tourist industry and economic base.
Sarajevo witnessed important historical events and was severely damaged as a result of the hostilities in the 1990s.
The 100th anniversary of that event falls in the very year we are talking about - 2014.
Awarding the city the title of European Capital of Culture at this juncture would not only help in the cultural regeneration of the city and in improving the city's image in other countries, but would also help to commemorate important aspects of European history and identity.
