Part one Subject: Basel III criteria and European banks On 12 September 2010, the Basel Committee announced that new criteria had been drawn up to strengthen the stability of the financial system.
This is the first time that this sector will be subject to European regulation, and I would like to thank you already for the part you have played in this draft directive.
You will be asked to give your opinion on the proposed Capital Requirements Directive 4 that will be presented in spring 2011 to implement the Basel III accord in Europe.
According to the International Monetary Fund, bank losses attributed to the crisis amounted to EUR 2 300 billion at the end of 2010, of which half has come from European banks.
The G20, in its decision of 2 April 2009, made the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision responsible for making in-depth improvements to the Basel II regulations where necessary, in order to strengthen banks' resilience and improve financial stability.
EU leaders expressed their support for this goal on 19 and 20 March 2009.
The Basel III regulations were drawn up in the Basel Committee by experts from the regulatory and supervisory authorities of the 27 major international banking markets, with the Commission's very active participation on behalf of all Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou asked me about liquidity.
I want to reiterate that the financial crisis has shown that banks with excess liquidity have refrained from lending on the interbank market because they have very prudently accumulated liquidity for their own potential needs.
Mr Rübig, you mentioned Basel II.
During my first visit to the United States, on 9 and 10 May 2010, I also made a deal, or rather reached an agreement, with the American Secretary of the Treasury - with whom I shall be meeting again next week - to ensure that the United States will implement Basel 2.5 in mid-2011.
All of this will take place in spring 2011, with CRD 4 and these legislative texts.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the question addresses very important issues.
Food security will also remain a top priority for the European Union in its relations with Africa, where many countries are off track in reaching this MDG 1, where more than 70% of the population live in rural areas, and where some 90% of agricultural production is carried out by smallholders on family farms.
As I have said, this dimension is already covered by the partnership on the MDGs, among others. (ES) Mr President, thank you very much, Commissioner, for your answer, which will be very useful with a view to the European Union-Africa summit.
Member of the Commission. - Briefly on the question about the MDG summit, I think the main result of this summit is the clear agreement between the developed and developing countries to succeed in achieving the MDGs by 2015 and, in particular, MDG 1, to cut global poverty by half and also to strengthen food security issues.
Part two Subject: Ensuring respect for air and rail passengers' rights Regulations (EC) No 261/2004 and No 1371/2007 bestow a highly important set of minimum rights on all air and rail passengers in the European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - As the Honourable Member pointed out, Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 on rail passenger rights, Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on air passenger rights - and let me also add Regulation (EC) No 1107/2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air - recognise certain minimum, common rights for citizens when they travel by rail or by air.
The correct application of these regulations must be ensured by the national enforcement bodies designated in the Member States.
The Commission's task is to ensure that EU law is correctly implemented and enforced by the Member States by constantly monitoring their activity.
Concerning the volcanic ash crisis, the Commission has reacted quickly and has done its utmost to ensure that, in accordance with the conclusions of the Extraordinary Council held on 4 May 2010, the rules on air passenger rights are applied and enforced in a uniform and harmonised way everywhere in the EU.
On 30 November, we will have a consultation here to discuss with Council the very controversial issue of bus passenger rights.
On Rail Baltica, I will do my utmost to develop this project and I hope that we can cooperate with you and with all our countries to make this project a successful one.
Subject: Directive 2002/15/EC Following the vote in Parliament on 16 June 2010 to reject the Commission proposal on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, what is the current state of play with regard to this proposal?
Among the statistics, one figure is of particular concern: in 2008, 1 100 children were victims of road accidents in the European Union.
In 2009, around 35 000 people died on the roads of the EU which corresponds to the size of a small town.
Technological developments, in particular, so-called intelligent transport systems, will also play an important role.
We are failing. (RO) The figure of 35 000 deaths caused by road accidents is equivalent to the population of a small European town disappearing every year, which I regard as an extremely serious matter.
There has been a 40% reduction in casualties in Europe.
Subject: Excess transport in the Baltic Sea The World Wide Fund for Nature international NGO announced in August that an increase in commercial activity over the next 20 years will seriously damage the Baltic Sea.
An annual increase of over 150 ships is currently being recorded.
Maritime transport in the Baltic Sea has increased significantly over recent years, as a result of rapid economic growth.
The third maritime safety package adopted by Parliament and the Council in 2009 is a significant improvement of the EU's vessel traffic monitoring and information system.
A recently adopted EU strategy in the Baltic Sea region also addresses safety and security.
In general, Baltic Sea countries are all very sensitive about environmental issues and maritime transport issues as well.
Subject: New framework for the EU common agricultural policy 2014-2020 Without a significant increase in targeted subsidies for Bulgaria, the agriculture sector there could collapse.
Bulgaria and Romania, which, in 2007, were the last countries to join the EU, receive just 40% of the amount granted in agricultural subsidies to established Member States such as Germany, France and others.
Subject: Taking account of biodiversity in the reform of the CAP In its report of 21 September 2010 (P7_TA(2010)0325), Parliament clearly denounced the failure of the European strategy for halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010.
The total amount of direct payments in European Union Member States reflects their agricultural production and the average level of aid over an historical period.
Nevertheless, all Member States of the EU-12, that is to say, all the new Member States, also have the opportunity to top up EU direct payments with national subsidies within the limits clearly set out by the regulation and the accession treaties.
As prompted by the Council during the common agricultural policy (CAP) health check in 2008 and during the CAP reform in 2003, the Commission is involved in looking at ways of developing the direct payment system, especially regarding the issue of different levels of payment among Member States.
You remarked that the alignment of the subsidies will not take place until 2016, which, during this crisis, puts the two newly admitted countries in an extremely unfair position.
That is why I have said on several occasions that I think a flat-rate system - that is to say, a uniform amount per hectare for all these categories - is not an appropriate solution.
Subject: Common Agricultural Policy and cross-compliance Cross-compliance is an important element of the common agricultural policy that links most CAP payments to the observance of certain rules in the areas of environment, health and animal welfare.
The talks on regulations have taken place in the relevant management committee, the most technical discussions have been held by a group of experts dealing specifically with cross-compliance, and discussions on the supervisory methods have taken place in certain specialist workshops.
I believe that all these tools, which are present within the framework of the common agricultural policy and which may be strengthened in the future, can be better used by farmers to convey the efforts they are making.
In the proposals that we will be making, which we will talk about after 17 November, the idea is not to move the focus of attention from the economic and social question to the environmental question alone, but to integrate the environmental question further in the farmer's way of thinking so that, in the future, we can hopefully really talk about competitive agriculture.
According to Article 19 of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the rural development programmes may be revised at the request of the Member States, after approval from the national monitoring committee and following the Commission's examination and approval.
In terms of the Greek fishing sector, the national authorities have informed the Commission of their intention to set up a new instrument in order to help small businesses in the fishing sector.
The amount that will be contributed to this instrument under the European Fisheries Fund could total EUR 35 million.
What I am saying in response is that the Greek authorities have not submitted a request for such an instrument for small and very small enterprises in the agricultural sector, although they have submitted one for the fisheries sector.
In this communication, the Commission identifies a number of measures to be taken by public authorities at all levels - EU, national and regional - in order to address the challenges faced by the sector.
As far as the overall strategy for EU aquaculture is concerned, the Commission would also like to recall the debate held in Parliament in June 2010, based on the report prepared by Guido Milana.
That is why we have a labelling chapter in our CFP reform.
The implementation of the Greek operational programme for 2007-2013 is delayed.
Up to 15 September 2010, actual payments only reached EUR 5 000 600, which amounts to 2% of the total EFF allocation.
The financial crisis is also responsible for some delays, in particular, for measures under Axis 2.
The Commission is currently preparing its annual report on the implementation of the EFF in 2009 which will provide further information and background on the question posed by the honourable Member. (EL) Thank you, Commissioner, for your comprehensive reply.
