I am also pleased to see a few familiar faces here again who were also present as a delegation in Cancún and who were given a mandate by the European Parliament to make a very useful and active contribution to the success of the conference.
At the climate conference, we reached a decision which actually consisted of two parts: the first part could be considered to consist of a number of specific measures which could be applied quite rapidly, and the second part lays down a number of foundations intended to facilitate a global deal for the post-2012 period over the long term.
Obviously, both of these elements were agreed in the framework of the 2 °C target, which was included as the starting point in the outcome of the climate conference.
Finally, the Green Climate Fund must ensure that USD 100 billion is made available to developing countries by 2020.
If we then look at the longer term and at the foundations which have been laid down, we should, of course, continue to work next year to bring about an international agreement after 2012.
I think that all of us - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - will have to continue to work hard together to ensure that we can take a major step forward next year and, hopefully, get a binding international agreement.
In any case, I would like to thank Parliament once again for the efforts it made in Cancún.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think it is fair to say that we in the European Union went to Cancún with the fear that we risked getting nothing.
I think that all those who were there also felt relief when the final deal was done.
I also think that it is important to say that what we achieved in Cancún was not just about saving the process.
I think that, if we had met two or three days after Copenhagen was over, few of us would have thought that, one year later, all the elements of the Copenhagen Accord would be included in a binding UN agreement.
I would like to stress three things that were particularly important to the European Union in the end game - which was very much Friday, as some of those present will recall.
We wanted recognition of the gap between the emission reduction pledges of the Copenhagen Accord now being anchored in the UN text and the challenge of keeping global warming below 2 °C.
On all three points, we made progress.
For the first time, the 2 °C objective is acknowledged in a UN document, the pledges are anchored and the obvious has been stated, namely, that countries need to do more for the world to stay below the 2 °C rise.
We also started a process to strengthen transparency and, as we said in Cancún, it is not enough just to say that you are in favour of increased transparency.
Finally, we managed to keep open the discussion about the Kyoto Protocol and a future legal outcome.
Having said these positive things, I would like to echo what Joke Schauvliege has just said to the effect that this does not mean that we have a very easy year ahead of us.
I think it is very important now that everybody goes back home and starts to do things in their own nation, in their own region and in their own municipality.
We have our 2020 target and we have also initiated the discussion about how we could eventually increase our ambitions in the short term.
I would like to highlight that we actually managed to speak with one voice.
I would like to thank Joke Schauvliege very much for her contribution towards this result.
I think that they contributed a great deal towards conveying the message that Europe really was speaking with one voice.
I think that contributed a lot to the general impression that this time, Europe actually was speaking with one voice.
Our common goal is to limit global warming to the celebrated 2 ºC.
However, even in Europe, we have come to realise that the famous binding agreement is not enough.
For us, it is extremely important from a political point of view that we are united in our efforts, and we succeeded in demonstrating this in Cancún.
However, it is also important that, as the developed world, we not only live up to our historic responsibility, we also need to do something, and, above all, we must find a successor regulation for the Kyoto Protocol.
Mr President, we would like to thank the Commission and the Council, Mrs Hedegaard and Mrs Schauvliege, for the daily briefings that the European Parliament delegation received in Cancún.
It was absolutely right for Parliament, in its resolution, to call for us to raise our ambitions and achieve a reduction in CO2 of 30% by 2020, and I hope that the Commission and the Council will adopt decisions on this in the spring.
Thirdly, we must do our homework.
My final point is this: This climate conference is done.
Every government in the world accepts the science and accepts that we are not doing enough to stop world temperatures rising by two degrees centigrade.
With China well on its way to reducing its carbon intensity by 45%, it is in our economic interest to make sure that we take these measures, or we are going to be left behind economically.
Maybe now, thanks to our not being defeated at Cancún, we have the momentum - the sense that we are going forward again - to make the changes that are necessary.
The positive aspect of Cancún is that everyone must now engage with the machine of international negotiation, in particular, by strengthening their national or regional objectives.
The success of Cancún means that we must engage with the process of international negotiation in a much more constructive manner.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I was not fortunate enough to be on the Parliament delegation in Cancún, but I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate everyone who was involved.
The main objective yet to be achieved is a global agreement which is legal and ambitious and aims to keep the temperature increase below 2 °C, or even 1.5 °C, above pre-industrial levels.
The measure of agreement reached in Cancún is a step in that direction.
Taxpayer riots over far bigger scams - bail-outs to corrupt and incompetent banks, propping up the zombie euro and the global warming hoax - are yet to come, but come they will and, unlike Prince Charles and Camilla, their targets will deserve everything they get. (ES) Mr President, Mrs Schauvliege, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission and the parliamentary delegation, led by our fellow Member Mr Leinen, on the work that they did in Cancún, a meeting that I was unfortunately unable to attend in the end.
I want to thank the Council and the Commission for the work they did.
Europe did speak with one voice and, from our meetings with different delegations, it was very clear that Europe's leadership was appreciated and people were very aware that we had a 20% target but were thinking of moving to 30%.
I wonder what the Commissioner thinks now of the prospects for being more ambitious before Durban because, from what we heard, I think that what Europe says in Durban will count. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my fellow Members that the work done by Commissioner Hedegaard at the Climate Change Conference in Cancún is to be applauded.
Now, the EU leadership on climate change is, in practice, being tested: are we prepared to tighten up our emissions targets by moving from a 20% to a 30% decrease?
Important commitments came out of Cancún, but the truth is that none of these will be formalised before next year's conference in South Africa.
With regard to ambition, I would also like to repeat what I have said before: we need to be more ambitious, like we used to be.
That climatologist is Franco Prodi, brother of the former Prime Minister Romano Prodi, and he calls for calm, common sense and no divisions, arguing a point that we should all agree on: he says that it will take us many years yet to know as much about climate change as we know today about meteorology.
I therefore believe that we can continue to work practically on this issue, and I thank everyone for how the work in Cancún has been pursued. (DA) Mr President, the American writer Mark Twain once said 'rumours of my death have been greatly exaggerated'.
Likewise, we could say that, fortunately, the rumours surrounding the UN climate process have been shown to be greatly exaggerated.
The climate process is alive and well.
We did so in Cancún, but we must also do so with regard to the reduction targets.
We have now promised a reduction of 20% by 2020.
Here in Parliament, we have also agreed that we believe we should go as far as 30%.
We can look forward again and we can look at what we need to achieve in Durban.
That is what we need in Durban.
Speaking with one voice is very good, but now we have to get our proactive diplomacy in place. (SL) Mr President, on Saturday morning, I woke up with a sense of relief after learning that both agreements had been adopted and that, of course, gives me confidence that global warming can still be kept below the 2 °C limit.
Now we find ourselves under great time pressure, primarily because we still do not have any figures and because we still have no specific undertakings as to how individual countries are going to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
On that score, I think that the European Union must exploit every possibility at its disposal to help the United States, so that next year, we can obtain a much more ambitious undertaking from them than has been the case this year.
The European Union is still the only region in the world to have limited its emissions by law. (PT) Mr President, I have already said here that, whereas expectations for Copenhagen were very high at the start, expectations for Cancún were not very ambitious.
However, there is another difference in favour of Cancún, which also resulted from the good work done by the Mexican Presidency, which did everything it could to make the conference a success.
It is an important step in the right direction that emerging economies such as China, Brazil and South Africa are committing themselves to the 2 °C target for the first time.
Finally, I consider it very important that the European Union not only spoke with a single voice, but that it changed the attitude it had exhibited in Copenhagen, and treated the other countries as partners and with empathy, and this contributed considerably to the success of Cancún. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 16th climate change conference in Cancún ended this time, too, with a non-binding compromise called the 'balanced package'.
These are questions that we did not ask today, at a point at which one-third of the period defined as being quick-start has already passed. (LT) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the delegation from the European Parliament, the Member of the Commission and the whole of the European Union on speaking with one voice at Cancún.
I agree with the Member of the Commission that we must do our homework, we ourselves must achieve the target of 20% by various means.
In spite of what you said - that we managed to achieve something - I would still like to ask whether you really would not have expected a somewhat greater result in Cancún? (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the Commissioner and to the entire EU delegation, who have helped to keep the process alive.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, can I first say thank you very much for the many kind comments, including those of Chris Davies, although I know even less than he about football so I could not follow the picture, but I guess it was a positive one!
That is the kind of discussion we are trying to get here in the spring, and I am pleased to see that more and more Member States have started to hold this discussion among themselves and also come forward with different signals on how they see this.
Chris Davies asked about 2050 and the 50% and some other things that were not there.
You all know why it is difficult to achieve this, but that is one of the topics we still need to have on the table on our way forward to South Africa.
Ms del Castillo mentioned that Cancún has learned from Copenhagen.
I would say yes, but mostly perhaps in the sense that people realised in the last 24 hours that if they did not show the will to compromise, there would be a real risk of not getting anything done, and the whole process would risk dying.
That argument was not just a tactical thing, but was a real thing in the room where people knew that this would probably be the last chance for many of them to save the only process where everybody was sitting around the table.
We should also build on what has been achieved in the Cartagena process in which 25 countries - developing and developed countries alike - really want to move forward.
I would re-state that, had it not been for the European Union signalling its willingness to taking a second commitment period, had we said the same as other Kyoto parties in Cancún, then any prospect of having a legally binding deal by now would have been dead.
Many of us will need a break for Christmas and the New Year, but early next year, we should continue the very strong dialogue between Council, Commission and the European Parliament and come back to one another after we have done some reflecting and have digested the outcome of Cancún.
If Europe sets a clear strategy, then we can actually move things in the right direction, and although that is not going to be less challenging for Durban, I am sure that we can do this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for making many positive comments about the agreement reached in Cancún.
However, we were all aware that it would be impossible to secure a global deal in Mexico and that had also been determined in advance.
They are also there and, as the Commissioner has said, the points that we felt were important in order to achieve that balance on the European Union's part have also emerged from the Cancún conference.
We should also give the European Union credit for taking a very clear and transparent stance, a stance that has been incorporated in the Council conclusions and that was also defended with a single voice.
Everyone from the Commission and the European Parliament made a very positive contribution to the promotion of this stance and, on the part of the Council, we did our utmost to ensure that we explained that stance as far as we could.
By way of conclusion, I would like to thank everyone once again for your cooperation and, in particular, Commissioner Connie Hedegaard, for the very pleasant and constructive way in which she has worked with us, and for your efforts, which led to some excellent achievements in Cancún.
This would not have been possible without constructive cooperation on everyone's part and if the European Union had not been able to imprint such a clear hallmark on the agreement reached in Cancún.
I am, however, of the opinion that we cannot speak of success until a legally binding international agreement has been concluded as a continuation of the Kyoto Protocol, which will expire in 2012 - an agreement on which basis sanctions can be imposed.
The Kyoto Protocol could still be extended, which is positive: there will be a lot of pressure in Durban next year, given that the only binding agreement on climate change will be expiring, but it is very important that the agreement reached in Copenhagen now becomes an official United Nations document, as it is supported by all countries except Bolivia.
I think that this summit marks a crucial juncture where our negotiators have paved the way for an agreement to be signed next year in Durban in South Africa.
Europe is a role model when it comes to climate.
On the basis of the results of Cancún, hard work will be needed to make a success of the Durban conference in 2011.
