I should like to call for an in-depth debate on this subject. (RO) Madam President, on 28 November, early parliamentary elections are going to take place in the Republic of Moldova.
People who were expelled from their homes by force have managed, even though uprooted as refugees, to put roots down in Kyrenia 36 years later.
This exhibition was due to be opened by the Secretary General of the Committee of the Regions, who ultimately failed to appear under pressure from the Turkish occupying forces, because the exhibition refers to the invasion of Cyprus by Turkey in 1974 and to the destruction of its cultural heritage by the invading forces.
It goes without saying that the banks cannot be allowed to lead Parliament on a merry dance any longer. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the European Parliament cannot fail to mention the 95th anniversary of the Armenian genocide in Turkey.
In the last two weeks, there have been ten attacks on the Intertuna III, the Demiku, the Elai Alai, the Playa de Anzoras, the Albacan, the Erroxape, the Campolibre Alai and the Playa de Aritzatxu.
Piracy has an impact on our fishing and merchant fleet, and also on the countries with whom we sign agreements, whose development or ruin also depends on the safety of fishing in that area. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to Parliament what has happened with regard to the exhibition 'The Promotion of Cultural Values through the Protection of the Cultural Heritage of Occupied Cyprus', held from 17 to 26 November through the Committee of the Regions.
On 17 November, following the opening, the head of the Communication unit, Wolfgang Petzold, ordered exhibitors immediately to suspend the exhibition on the grounds that the panels depicted captions which were different from those which had been agreed.
The perpetrators of more than 5 000 crimes committed in Romania since January 1990 remain unknown.
Today, we heard Jean-Claude Trichet and Olli Rehn speaking of the need for fiscal rectitude and calling on Ireland and Portugal and other countries to adhere to the Stability and Growth Pact.
Yet as part of a Eurobarometer survey, the findings of which have emerged today, over 27 000 citizens throughout the EU and 1 000 citizens in Ireland were asked for their views as to how we should emerge from the crisis.
The three main suspects wanted by the Metropolitan police - Andrei Lugovoi, Dmitry Kovtun and Vyacheslav Sokolenko - are still free in Russia.
The European Commission therefore has a duty to take up this matter.
I cannot help recalling the late, misunderstood Oriana Fallaci, who announced the arrival of Eurabia and was practically stoned for having the courage to condemn what was happening in this neurotic Europe. (BG) Madam President, education and science are a priority objective in the 2020 economic strategy.
After a series of failed solutions, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, an institution with more than one hundred and forty years of history, set up under the harsh conditions of Ottoman rule, which now accounts for 55 percent of scientific research in Bulgaria and is recognised all over the world, is to be liquidated.
It has received over EUR 30 million for over 400 successful European projects.
For a month now, workers at the Atlas plants in Ganderkesee, Delmenhorst and Vechta have been striking day and night for precisely these rights.
The first round passed off quite well on 31 October.
