Energy Efficiency Action Plan (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Bendt Bendtsen, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the revision of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan.
Mr President, the EU's target of achieving 20% energy efficiency savings by 2020 could be at risk of becoming yet another Lisbon prophecy.
We therefore need to streamline them and give the Commission the opportunity to use them actively as a tool.
Thus, in some countries, the potential for energy savings in buildings is greater than in other countries, just as entirely different countries will presumably focus on increased energy savings in connection with production.
The buildings policy is also important.
I am convinced that these three areas will provide an important foundation for competitiveness and innovation for many years to come.
I hope that Parliament can agree to adopt this report with a large political majority, as this is important - it is a very important area for Europe and for our enterprises.
Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I am grateful to Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on Regional Development for the intensive debate and for the report that we are debating today.
If we just take stock of the interim situation with regard to the three 20% targets that we have been set - CO2, renewable energies in the energy mix and greater energy efficiency: with regard to CO2 and renewable energies, we are making good progress, but where energy efficiency is concerned, we are just beginning.
That means that, although we have been set a target - Parliament, the Council, all European institutions - our progress, particularly after the crisis, is not likely to result in 20% more energy efficiency; instead, as things currently stand, it would only be possible to achieve a maximum of 8, 9, 10% in ten years' time.
If you ask your neighbours or your friends, they understand energy saving, but energy efficiency is just some sort of technical term.
If energy savings are disregarded, will our energy demand actually increase, I ask myself.
However, in new Member States - I only need to mention motor vehicles, the number of cars per inhabitant, housing sizes, industrial development - it certainly will increase.
The deduction of 20% gives exactly the same figures as those from 2005.
They may achieve a majority in Parliament, but the Member States want to work on a voluntary basis and they are still a long way from agreeing to the binding targets decided on two or three years ago.
Thus, we need to clarify what the forecast for 2020 is without energy efficiency - more from a purely theoretical point of view - and then simply cut it by 20%.
Secondly, we have structural programmes at European level and we have different refurbishment programmes in the various countries.
It goes without saying that we have to make savings there when we know that there are some Member States in which there are 550 cars for every 1 000 members of the population - petrol and diesel engines - and others where there are 100 or 120.
This will be harmonised, but not at a level of 100 cars per 1 000 citizens in Germany, but at 400 to 500 cars per 1 000 citizens in Europe.
I can tell you that the Member States and the energy ministers are handling the subject of energy efficiency very sensitively, but are not yet prepared to take a decision on binding targets.
I want to debate this matter on 4 February in the European Council in order once again to see clearly how seriously the governments are taking this and I will then come back to you with a concrete proposal for a new energy efficiency plan.
Instead, if appropriate, we will switch after two years to binding targets if we notice that in the first two years, the voluntary phase has not resulted in progress towards 20% in the Member States.
He has presented an ambitious strategy on the subject of energy efficiency in the European Union.
Energy efficiency is the most cost-effective means of lowering emissions and reducing our dependence on energy imports.
However, I would like to emphasise two points once again.
I believe that we should take the quantity of energy consumed as the basis, as that is measurable and we have data for that.
We are currently using the 2020 forecasts for this purpose; however, it would not be sensible to adopt binding legal goals based on these forecasts.
This technology will allow us to achieve our goal.
Regional and local authorities will be responsible for implementing policies on energy efficiency, and so the European Commission and Member States must coordinate their activities with local authorities.
I am also told that when people know that a particular appliance consumes more or less energy, in other words, if they can see that and can see an advantage to themselves, they will decide in favour of energy efficiency.
However, it is crucial that these energy efficiency targets are binding for the Member States, as it is plain for all to see that the EU has recommendations and objectives in a great many areas that are never realised in practice because they are not binding.
I was in Zaghreb last week discussing Croatia's accession with Liberal colleagues, and they told me that Croatia imports 50% of its energy and also uses twice as much energy as it would do if proper energy efficiency measures were in place.
So, given all these positive effects, it comes as a great shock to realise that the 20% energy efficiency target is the one part of the 2020 package which is currently heading for failure, as the Commissioner said.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work and, in principle, clearly, to support the adoption tomorrow of the report adopted in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
A few days ago, in Cancún, the European Commission negotiated a binding agreement on climate change and tried to defend the Kyoto Protocol, and in this House we are citing the arguments of the United States and China by saying: 'We will go for voluntary targets, and then, if one day we realise that they are not working, we will create binding targets'.
We must move much more quickly, and I would also ask you, Commissioner, to please stress to Mr Van Rompuy that the 4 February meeting should also be a meeting about energy consumption.
Mr President, I would also like to begin by saying that I believe this to be a good time to table a motion to review the Action Plan on Energy Efficiency and, if there are any doubts, I believe that the debate that we are having here today will clarify things.
Energy efficiency policy is absolutely fundamental in a number of sectors, from buildings to energy infrastructure, information and communications technology, transport, matters of finance, all of these issues and many more, and all other sectors.
As I have mentioned before, the situation whereby we still have voluntary criteria has simply brought us to where we are now: we cannot set binding targets because it will be impossible to achieve 20% energy efficiency by 2020, and we will tell the European public that, in the end, it was an empty promise, and that nothing of the sort is going to happen in reality, because we only achieved 9%.
I hope that this does not remain the case, I hope that we are successful not only in this sector, but also in the construction sector, and I sincerely hope that tomorrow, we are able to give a response that is not only coordinated and articulate, but a response to the crisis that we are experiencing.
The proposed measures do not apply only to the area of energy infrastructure, in other words, production and transmission of energy, but also to the construction sector, industrial output and transport.
However, with regard to the target deadline for the EU commitment to reduce the volume of greenhouse gases produced in Europe by 20% by 2020, it would perhaps be a good idea to think about the measures, scope, cost and end result we are prepared to implement in the next 10 years within the framework of current options and powers.
The answer is that, although we do extract a certain amount in Europe itself, compared to our requirements, we import oil and gas on a massive scale from the Middle East and Russia.
This means that in future, if we do not alter our behaviour, we shall continue to export increasing amounts of our own money out of the European Union to third countries.
Commissioner Oettinger mentioned the issue of language.
In other words, we should not use our energy resources in such a way that we get insufficient benefit from them.
As in all other contexts where we have common ambitions at global or European level, we need to agree on a common measurement method and then decide on binding targets.
What we are putting to the test right now is the inefficiency of not having binding targets and, using the step-by-step method, we are putting off making a change until the future.
It is the sleeping giant with the hidden but enormous potential for the European energy economy.
In the regional funds, together with the Cohesion Funds, we have an immense instrument in our hands in the European Union that we are not making use of.
In this field of energy efficiency, we could finally create European added value which we could put to use in an innovative way to get to grips with energy efficiency in a way that has not happened in the past.
I endorse the focus that you are giving to this issue, Commissioner Oettinger, and the fact that you are seeking to bring about greater use of these funds, including for this energy efficiency instrument.
Everyone knows that, by 2050, Europe has to reduce its greenhouse emissions either by 80% or, as we advocate, by 95%.
The current rate of adaptation in Europe is 1.4% per year: in other words, it will take us more than 60 years to replace our built environment in its entirety.
That will take us up to 2070 but, meanwhile, we have set ourselves targets which we have to reach by 2050!
Insufficient reference is made to the development differences between the EU Member States and, as a result, to the costs they will have to bear if the recommendations are implemented.
A true energy efficiency policy should also mean an opportunity to sell electricity at a lower price to railways, metros and trams, as happened in France before the European directives on the single energy market prohibited it.
This is a subject for a separate debate, but I would like to appeal now for consideration to be given to a new, post-crisis approach to the issue of consumption and energy demands in the European Union.
We must make the 20% target an achievable one; we cannot let this opportunity pass us by, since it would send out an encouraging signal to Europe. (BG) Mr President, achieving a high degree of energy efficiency is the fundamental political aim of the European Union, as it is an integral component in the overall strategy of building a competitive, low carbon economy which will stimulate business activity and improve employment by creating plenty of new jobs.
An assessment needs to be made of the results of the 2006 plan, and policies put in place to help targets to be implemented, diversifying methods of increasing energy efficiency.
The crisis argument cannot be used as an excuse for non-fulfilment of the 20% objective in 2020, nor for shooting down solutions for resolving the serious problem of energy poverty.
It is important to report positive experiences from other countries, not forgetting China and the United States, and to invest in the funding of measures that increase energy efficiency in buildings, in social housing, and in transport and industry.
This poses a particular challenge of us, as politicians, as we have normal technological progress which is, of course, characterised by the fact that we have more energy efficient products and modes of economic operation.
In addition, the capital that is freed up as a result of the lower power bills releases a major potential for consumption which, furthermore, can contribute to our economic growth in the long term.
I would therefore ask that you act accordingly and perhaps also give some consideration to how we can better get through to the citizens, specifically via the towns, the communities and the regions, as that connection is absolutely vital in order to make it possible to actually get those targets accepted - binding or otherwise. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, energy efficiency is crucial for increasing security of supply, improving air quality, reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and increasing the competitiveness of our society.
In the light of the above, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Bendtsen, for the excellent work carried out and for the balance achieved, and would invite all of you to support this important report. (LT) Mr President, although many legislative measures have been introduced in the area of energy efficiency and saving, not all of them are producing the desired results.
I believe that when revising the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, the European Commission must seriously take into account the fact that the Member States are not exploiting energy saving opportunities sufficiently, which is preventing an increase in energy independence.
It is also necessary for individual Member States to set binding energy efficiency targets and monitor how they are implemented, because otherwise, the huge potential for energy saving will remain untapped. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am happy to make a few comments on this report.
Mr Swoboda has also spoken about this.
I have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 81 in order to clarify its wording.
Unfortunately, the 400 representatives from local and regional authorities mentioned that it is not known at local and regional level that all Member States have the opportunity to use 4% of the European Regional Development Fund allocation at national level for energy efficiency in buildings.
First, I believe that we should move towards innovation and new technologies in both areas - the energy efficiency of buildings and, above all, the energy efficiency of transport.
For citizens, it must be comprehensible and explicable and, above all, it must also be economically feasible for them.
This aspect, in particular, is an element I find to be missing from this report. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the negotiations in Cancún were relatively successful.
Negotiations on climate change are progressing.
They have been taking measures even since the failure in Copenhagen.
On the one hand, our households, our businesses and our public services will continue to pay absurd costs and, on the other, we risk losing the lead in the green economy in Europe.
That is why we need to think that, if we are already having trouble competing with countries such as China, how will we be able to compete in future with a green China?
If energy consumption continues to increase, achieving the 20% renewable energy target may also be in jeopardy, since that target is calculated as a proportion of the EU's final energy consumption.
I am firmly in favour of setting a binding target for energy efficiency also, so as to ensure that Europe's climate and energy policies are mutually reinforcing.
The European Union must show the way with clear and effective policies and objectives.
Let us stop investing in new facilities to produce more energy, and let us plough our money and our efforts into the cleanest energy in the world, energy that we can avoid using.
Lastly, I call for the adoption of Amendment 2, which calls on the Commission to launch an initiative on the energy performance of existing buildings in 2011. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency is the key word of our future economy, but it should be promoted, not imposed: the Member States must be brought on board to ensure that anyone who chooses to make his or her business or home more energy efficient is assisted in doing so.
We cannot conceive of forcing private individuals to invest without convincing or encouraging them: improving energy efficiency means helping the environment and saving resources, but in such a sensitive area as this, it is crucial to combine these choices with European policies aimed at a single European energy market.
We must take a step towards new, zero CO2 emission properties, and we must also find a solution for the problems of upgrading existing buildings in terms of energy efficiency.
Mr Swoboda mentioned the importance of local authorities.
I would also add to previous speakers in raising the issue about energy poverty, which I think all in this House would agree is vitally important to emphasise.
I find it difficult to imagine that a local authority would apply to the Commission directly for funding, but opening up the regional programmes to a greater extent to the vigorous refurbishment of the building stock would seem to me to be a very important step for the next funding period at the latest.
If we look at Europe's housing stock, we can see that, on average, the required refurbishment for each dwelling - from windows, to active and passive insulation and right down to appropriate electric equipment and appropriate improvements to heating systems - would amount to EUR 30 000 to 60 000 per dwelling.
Two Members of this House, Messrs Jadot and Eickhout, have said that the basis is clear.
This is because 'moving towards 20%' also means that 18, 19 or 17% would also be sufficient.
The decision of March 2007 refers to projections of energy consumption in 2020, which were to be cut by 20%.
Italy's energy consumption for 2007 was 173 million tonnes.
The projection for 2020 was a rise to 208 million tonnes, from which the 20% was then to be subtracted.
Luxembourg's energy consumption for 2007 was 4.6 million tonnes.
The consumption for the reference year was 23.8 million tonnes, which then increases to 30 million, before being brought back down to 24 million.
In such a plan, I would instruct the Member States to now create national efficiency plans on a voluntary basis, but the 20% would apply all round.
If we observe in two years' time that we have not made sufficiently consistent progress, then we will issue binding targets, which the Member States would then presumably not be in a position to reject.
Whether binding or voluntary, national action plans are required.
I would be happy to return here to Parliament in March in order to formally launch the debate with a proposal.
The report is an excellent first step towards this.
I would like to point out that even though we have had a comprehensive debate on this subject - binding targets - the rapporteurs have, of course, also discussed the fact, and agreed, that it is important for us to ensure compliance with current EU legislation in this area.
It is also important for us to take action in connection with urban development, buildings, the use of new energy technologies and in respect of a better product policy.
The investments will, of course, bring dividends in the form of higher employment, more innovative enterprises and new jobs - in particular, jobs for our small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe.
Having said all that, I would like to thank all of those involved.
I would like to say that you have all been very willing to cooperate, and I would like to thank my own group, which has shown a great deal of trust and supported me right the way through the work on the report.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 15 December 2010).
However, whereas we have directives for the other two objectives, clearly setting out how the target will be achieved, we have no such instrument for energy efficiency.
Finally, Member States can boost demand for green products using fiscal measures or subsidies compatible with the internal market.
I therefore consider it vital not only to channel investment into this sector, but also to ensure the effective implementation and strengthening of the European instruments available.
The political goal of 3x20 by 2020 does not therefore relate merely to limiting energy use by 20% gross, for example, as a result of price increases, as this would only cause a fall in living standards, but rather by means of rationalisation, which would allow 20% more useful work to be obtained from the same amount of primary energy.
The Energy 2020 strategy published by the European Commission in November also ranks energy efficiency as the highest priority.
Energy efficiency is one of the key priorities of the Europe 2020 strategy and the Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020, which also makes the submitted report highly important and topical in relation to the recent summit in Cancún.
The report builds on the Energy Efficiency Action Plan from 2006, calls on the Commission to update this plan, to revise the directive on energy services and also to establish binding targets to achieve a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020.
The report discusses arguments for the advantages of greater energy efficiency: social (potential creation of 1 million jobs or decline in energy poverty in the EU), economic (potential energy savings of up to EUR 100 billion), strategic (retaining the competitiveness of European companies through energy savings) and, last but not least, energy security (greater energy self-sufficiency for the EU).
Energy efficiency must therefore have special priority in the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, and the drawing of as much of the energy funds as possible should be made conditional to its principle.
In accordance with the targets undertaken under the Europe 2020 strategy (from 2005 onwards), Hungary's National Action Plan envisions very serious steps in the field of both energy produced from renewable sources and energy efficiency.
The Energy Efficiency Credit Fund (EHA) has been in operation since 1991, and has been lending support to the energy efficiency investments of the citizens.
Therefore, we must ask the Commission to pay serious attention to national action plans and their implementation, and to ensure that the EU directives adopted thus far are transposed into national legislation, as the implementation of the 2020 energy strategy and the achievement of the CO2 emission reduction targets can depend on this.
Using up-to-date technologies in the modernisation of infrastructure will also ensure financial savings and, as a result, economic growth in EU Member States.
Thanks to this, as the rapporteur himself emphasises, new jobs will be created not only in urban areas but also in local markets and in the countryside.
Energy efficiency measures play a crucial role in achieving this by guaranteeing that the climate and energy targets set are achieved at the lowest possible cost.
The smart use of these funds will enable us to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target, which will help, to a large degree, to meet the European Union's objectives on sustainability and competitiveness.
Concerning the revision of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan, one of the most effective means of reducing emissions of CO2 and other gases is energy efficiency.
Since the adoption of the 2006 Energy Efficiency Action Plan, the economic environment has undergone significant changes.
I am of the opinion that we should use the document evaluating the results and shortcomings of the 2006 Action Plan as the basis for this evaluation.
We must do everything in order to be able to meet the 20% target set out in our Europe 2020 strategy.
We must therefore urge the upgrading of our existing buildings, since the proportion of new buildings being constructed is declining.
As regards legislative measures in support of energy efficient solutions, the US and China are far ahead of us.
We must do everything in order to minimise our disadvantage.
The European Union and the Member States must support measures and means for increasing financing in this area.
Although the European Union has set targets for reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020, these are not binding, unlike targets in the areas of reducing emissions and renewables.
Member States are therefore not sufficiently motivated to achieve the best possible results in the area of energy efficiency.
If binding targets were set, however, households could save up to EUR 1 000 annually, according to figures from the European Commission.
Besides greater competitiveness, improved energy efficiency would also boost the creation of permanent jobs and would lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 780 million tonnes, which is more than is required under the Kyoto Protocol.
in writing. - The benefits of reducing energy consumption and dependence in Europe would be, at once, economic, environmental and political.
Smart grids can help to achieve this, whilst smart metering in households can make us conscious of when we can save energy and so help us to reduce consumption.
The Commission needs to focus properly on these two elements in the Action Plan, and the Member States need to give their full support to installing the infrastructure needed to make it happen, if necessary, through public procurement contracts.
That money should create jobs in our SMEs, agriculture, forestry sector and industry.
The Commission's estimates showed that a 20% increase in EE could potentially create as many as a million new jobs in Europe and an average household can save at least EUR 1 000 per year.
A lot has been achieved since the last EEAP, but there is no evidence that the target can be met by 2020.
Old buildings have the highest efficiency potential and the appropriate financial instruments to utilise that potential are missing.
