Stress tests of nuclear power plants in EU and nuclear safety in EU neighbourhood countries (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on stress tests of nuclear power plants in EU and nuclear safety in EU neighbouring countries.
For this reason, during the first stage, every operator of a nuclear power plant has been asked since 1 June to submit a report to the national authorities using the agreed European inspection criteria, our inspection catalogue, which is public and transparent.
They must include the operators' evaluation of their own nuclear power plant and the conclusions drawn by the operators on the basis of the inspection criteria and the consequences of Fukushima.
I believe that the test criteria cover the main expectations and legitimate interests of the public in Europe.
Secondly, I am more convinced than ever that although the starting point of the Fukushima disaster was a natural event, this was not the sole cause of the disaster.
This is why for me the human factor was an important component of the stress test.
We have ensured that the human factor is widely represented in the test criteria.
I do not believe that we can do justice to the test criteria that are so important to us in the space of four to six weeks.
Six months ago, we would not have expected to have the opportunity to carry out a stress test of this kind.
You may think that the endless heckling is funny, but it does not get us anywhere. (Applause) (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Madam President, Mr Reul, I will explain in my speech later why we are not satisfied, but I have the impression that you have not yet properly digested what your Chancellor and your party in Germany have now decided. (DE) Madam President, once again, all this was obviously not about moving forward one millimetre or three metres on this subject, but about party political disputes.
For me, it is highly regrettable that we are once again fighting over the question of yes or no.
You know that I personally hold a very individual view on this issue but I have been prepared to compromise and to find common ground in Parliament in order to improve the safety of European nuclear power stations in their current locations, which is where they are likely to stay.
We had this problem before Fukushima.
If we all want safety, then the right thing to do is to show a permanent commitment to safety and not just when there has been a core meltdown in three reactors. (DE) Madam President, firstly, the reason why I reacted so strongly is that I am still annoyed that we have not managed to adopt a joint resolution on safety, because it was more important for some people to take up an absolutist position rather than to find common ground.
In this respect, I think that your remarks are justified.
We also think that the tests should be carried out on other facilities, such as research reactors, and in respect of other threats, such as the fallout from a terrorist attack or a plant's structural weaknesses.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, this is not an internal German issue, but a European issue.
The ALDE Group has called for the entire safety culture and the human factor to be included in the test.
In conclusion, let us remember the extraordinary nature of the earthquake and the strength of the tsunami that hit the Fukushima installation and which has started all this process.
You should have referred to the fact that there are major problems, that the stress tests are purely voluntary, that they are only being carried out on paper and that they are largely in the hands of the operators, which is where they always have been.
Because of the Euratom Treaty, Parliament has almost no influence over nuclear safety and we have not made any progress in that area.
Would you first of all accept that this is not just a German debate and that there are other elements to this discussion?
Secondly, would you not accept that the circumstances faced by Fukushima were quite extraordinary and unprecedented, both in terms of the strength of the earthquake - the strongest ever experienced in Japan - and the height of the tsunami, which reached a maximum, I am told, of 46 metres, and had an average height of 14 metres, conditions that we might not expect in Europe? (DE) Madam President, I beg your pardon, Mr Chichester, I was speaking German, but I said absolutely nothing in my speech about Germany.
If I were to say anything about Germany, it would be this: I believe it is right that the German Government, under the leadership of climate policy expert Klaus Töpfer, for example, has said that the risks involved in these power stations are too great, that in the case of a disaster, the risks would be unmanageable and that this is why Germany is getting out of nuclear power.
I believe it is important to mention this here from a German perspective.
Secondly, I would like to say on the subject of Japan that TEPCO and other operators of nuclear power plants maintained before Fukushima that their plants were technically equipped to withstand all the types of earthquake that were likely to occur.
Would she not admit that this is actually true? (DE) Madam President, as we currently have no nuclear power stations where, in the case of a core meltdown, the effects could be restricted to the reactor, I am of the opinion that we should get out of nuclear power.
Mrs Niebler knows why we failed and why we currently have no high, mandatory safety standards in Europe today. (The President cut off the speaker) (The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8)) Madam President, since Chernobyl, for acute personal reasons, I have been a very committed opponent of nuclear energy plants.
At the first step of paying our tribute ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, I am happy for us to talk about this again, but I have a very big problem.
In order to protect the people of Europe and its neighbouring countries, the EU should develop a Europe-wide exit strategy, call on its neighbours to get out of nuclear power as part of its neighbourhood policy and, in this way, prevent new nuclear power stations from being built.
In the past, loans of more than EUR 500 million have been made available to Romania, Bulgaria and Ukraine alone for the construction of new nuclear power stations.
Experience has shown that nuclear power plants are rather vulnerable - both Chernobyl 25 years ago and Fukushima a few months ago.
We must ensure that the highest safety standards are applied not just in Europe, but beyond its borders as well.
In the area of nuclear safety, there is a particular focus on the European Commission.
We must ensure that not just European Union Member States, but neighbouring countries, in particular, Russia and Belarus, comply with the most stringent safety and environmental standards. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, in Austria, where you like to spend your holidays, we are doing very well when it comes to nuclear power plants.
The first thing I want to say is that some Members of this House need to show a little humility and a little common sense, because they make it appear that they are the only ones that have ever thought about nuclear safety and the only ones who are worried about the future of their children and humanity.
The 58 reactors in France or those in the United Kingdom or those in many other countries do not mean that the French or others may be more stupid or less intelligent, or that the future of their children does not worry them, or that they have never thought about nuclear safety.
You should take the credit for the fact that all the nuclear power stations in the EU are finally going to be inspected.
Of course, there is the risk that the inspection will differ from country to country.
The risk now and in future is not that an aircraft will accidentally crash on a nuclear power plant, but that there will be targeted attacks on these plants from outside.
Secondly, I would like to point out that stress tests should be established in all areas where energy is produced, if this whole approach to public safety is to be credible.
In 1976, for example, 26 000 people died when a dam broke in China.
I consider that stress tests should be undertaken not only within the European Union and neighbouring countries, but at a global level.
Hence, I welcome the comments made by the United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, who stated that he will convene a high-level meeting in Vienna on 24 June.
The UN Secretary-General has set out five points on nuclear safety and, from what I have seen, they tally with the rules the Commissioner brought to us and on which he briefed us as to how we should proceed.
In my opinion, that is how we can cope with this issue.
Critics are doubtful about whether even the brand new nuclear power stations like the European pressurised water reactors being constructed in France and Finland would meet the latest safety requirements.
When you find out that some nuclear power plants cannot even withstand storms, all you can do is to call on everyone to work towards getting out of nuclear energy as soon as possible. (LT) Madam President, firstly, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important issue today, particularly as regards the European Union's neighbourhood.
Standards applied in the European Union are among the highest in the world.
However, if we want to be safe, identical criteria should be applied to facilities already existing or planned in the EU's neighbourhood (Russia, Belarus, Turkey, Armenia, Switzerland and Ukraine).
The first principle is that a control mechanism must be obligatory.
The second principle is that this control mechanism should be entrusted to an independent and impartial authority.
If the tests should ever give negative results for particular installations, then these tests should have a binding effect on Member States, which would then have no choice but to close those non-functioning installations.
In this way, we will perhaps be able to bring about what Mrs Ek has called a European safety culture. (PL) Madam President, nuclear safety issues - both in the Member States and in neighbouring countries - should be the object of the European Union's particular attention.
I would also like to underscore the profound need for additional investment, both in research into nuclear power and in other important research aimed at anticipating and combating accidents and their adverse effects in the future. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, using the example of the Cattenom nuclear power station which threatens hundreds of thousands of people in Luxembourg and also in the German regions of the Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate, I would like to explain why these watered-down stress tests will not do the job.
After the first document was submitted by the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG), you yourself tabled an amendment to have aircraft crashes included in the initiating events on page 4 of the document.
We must make it clearer that France and the United Kingdom are currently not cooperating over the things that we and you both want.
I must tell you, sincerely, that one of those items of good news is guaranteeing the public that we are taking care of their safety.
I would like to give Mr Oettinger my support and encourage him to submit an ambitious proposal on the subject of energy efficiency in two weeks.
Close to St Petersburg, and 200 kilometres from Helsinki and Tallinn, are four Chernobyl-type reactors which threaten the safety of hundreds and thousands of EU citizens.
Commissioner Oettinger, you are discussing something else.
In a very short time, you have managed to draw up a very detailed specification of the stress tests and brokered an agreement between the European Commission and the 27 regulatory bodies of the Member States.
I have two more questions.
Admittedly, the audit of the 143 nuclear reactors in Europe will, in the end, only relate to the 'Fukushima' scenario, and you have clearly set the limits for this, Commissioner.
The nuclear industry, more than others, must understand that transparency is crucial for all these issues concerning safety - you definitely repeated the word more than ten times, Commissioner - as is the independence of both the operators and the state supervisory authorities, with the appointment of independent experts, and we are still not satisfied on this matter. (DE) Madam President, the Austrian people voted with a clear majority against nuclear power and this sends a clear message to our politicians.
I also agree that we should extend this stress test in neighbouring countries, the countries east of our borders.
The incumbent Hungarian Government failed the stress test you envision, Commissioner, because it has repeatedly impeded the construction of the NATO radar facility, which would have provided greater protection for the Paks nuclear power plant against aircraft attacks than the protection we have today, for the past seven years. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, it is vital that we set the bar high with these stress tests and that the tests are actually conducted according to the same criteria across the whole of Europe.
All European citizens have the right to know whether or not those nuclear power plants are actually safe.
However, that obviously should not exempt the European Commission from its duty to continue badgering Member States about this and to maintain pressure on the national security services so that these services actually investigate whether the plants are going to be prepared for those risks, too.
We will have to take into account the probability that some of the 143 nuclear power plants in Europe will not pass these tests, that the weakest will go to the wall and that several plants will perhaps have to close.
It is clear, as Mr Leinen said a little while ago, that at that moment, a solution will primarily present itself at a European level.
Next, I would like to complain a bit about this debate, with its appeals to collective fear.
We know that there is a desire in the European Union to ensure the security of our power stations from day to day.
I would also like to add that we know perfectly well that flying over nuclear power stations is prohibited - at least, in France - and that there is no nuclear power station in France which is further than 25 km from an air base, with the air bases being responsible for monitoring the air space above nuclear power stations.
However, I also believe that nuclear power should be part of our future energy mix.
For example, it will mean that prosperous European countries will not have to import energy from less prosperous countries, with all the problems that that can bring.
I believe Europe needs nuclear power, but it needs safe nuclear power. (PL) Madam President, following the Fukushima disaster, society has become increasingly worried about the safety of nuclear power plants in Europe.
This is why the stress tests are so important.
This should be our priority today.
Of course, we can express indignation over what has happened in the past, but today, it is clear that we must move forward.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, honourable Members, I will be happy to discuss your main comments and proposals relating to the stress tests that will be carried out over the next few months.
First of all, however, if you are concerned that a watered-down stress test will turn into a seal of approval without the necessary objectivity, I can assure you that I will do everything possible during the months to come, together with my offices, to ensure that this assumption is unfounded. (Applause) This is currently a concern which I completely understand, but some Members also have prejudices.
I would like to explain once again, Mr Turmes, that if I had not signed the revised and, in my opinion, positive version of the test criteria, we would now have nothing.
I can only say that this speech would have been more appropriate at the party conference in London than it was here in Strasbourg.
However, the Euratom Treaty is primary law and, therefore, is not the concern of the Commission but of the Member States.
I do not believe that it is very likely.
For this reason, I am in favour of taking a realistic approach and making the best we can out of the Treaty that we have.
The next question concerns the independence of the test.
The Sellafield station is very close to Ireland and there have been many accidents there to date, and therefore I am asking the Commission to put pressure on the British authorities to stress-test the station because it continues to be a risk to the people of Ireland.
Neither Russia nor Belarus have conducted environmental impact assessments on these power plants in accordance with generally accepted international standards, as called for in the Espoo convention, to which all EU Member States are signatories.
I believe that the construction of these nuclear power plants next to the borders of the EU can pose a threat not only to EU Member States, but also to the entire continent of Europe.
The European Commission must pay due attention to this issue and must actively work to ensure safety.
We must ensure that Russia and Belarus adhere to international standards and cooperate with international experts in all the phases of nuclear power plant planning, construction and operation.
It should not have happened.
The European Commission must include neighbouring states as well when carrying out the stress tests, applying to them the same test criteria established at EU level and taking into account the cross-border nature of the possible effects of nuclear energy.
The European Commission has confirmed on several occasions that some neighbouring countries - Ukraine, Russia, Sweden and Turkey - are ready to join the European stress test programme, but it is still unclear what specific action the Commission intends to take to bring about cooperation, and how the situation will pan out with regard to Belarus.
Germany's recent decision to phase out nuclear power by 2022 marks a new stage in the fundamental rethinking currently taking place in Europe concerning its energy independence and the possible alternatives to nuclear power.
However, nuclear power remains an important component of electricity provision in many European countries.
