I would like to refer to the case of a man in Ohio in the United States who, after serving 30 years in prison, also 'served' the death penalty, because he had to follow the due process.
We should also consider the other case, of somebody who served 35 years in prison and was then proved innocent.
We must act, there is still time, and 2010 is a year in which anything is possible.
This devastating earthquake, which has come after the four hurricanes last year, should not cause us to forget the situation that the country was in beforehand, with 80% of the population in poverty.
Under these circumstances, not only do we need to send humanitarian aid, but we also need to ensure that the efforts continue when Haiti ceases to be front page news, and that Haiti develops in a sustainable, coordinated and balanced way. (RO) Three years after their accession to the European Union, Romanians and Bulgarians do not enjoy full rights as European citizens.
I would therefore ask that you formally ask request the Spanish Government to state its position on the conclusions of the Auken report to the European Parliament. (EL) Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the horrifying events unfolding in Italy, where immigrants working illegally in the agricultural sector are falling victim to an unprecedented wave of acute xenophobia and racist violence.
To be precise, over 1 500 immigrants have abandoned their homes or are being forcibly removed by the authorities in the town of Rozzano.
That decision means the collapse of around 15 000 small family holdings which produce tobacco, mainly in the south-eastern part of Poland.
The priority of our political work should be the people and human dignity, and we cannot ignore the fact that there are people in Europe who are going hungry.
We must not pretend that we do not see how public debate on the treaty in many Member States was so impoverished.
Early this year, on 4 January 2010, the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, Mr Vollebæk, issued a major statement on the State language act.
The OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, Knut Vollebæk, praised the Slovak Republic. (DE) Mr President, most European Union Member States are also experiencing a devastating earthquake; one, however, that is not recognisable on the surface.
Generally, the ratio in these groups of experts is 80 to 20.
A year ago, over 1 400 died in the war in Gaza, mostly civilians, including over 300 children.
Europe must also intervene to prevent the expulsion of journalist Jared Malsin, a US citizen, and insist that he should be allowed to continue his work with Ma'an, the non-profit news agency in the West Bank.
The Commission has blocked the fisheries agreement with Guinea because government actions there resulted in the death of 150 demonstrators.
It is time for Europe to tell Israel that our patience is at an end and that they must comply with international human rights law, including the right of the free press to be free from government interference. (PT) Mr President, last November, the European Commission launched a public campaign about the European Union 2020 Strategy, which will follow the so-called Lisbon Strategy, whose objectives, as we know, were much vaunted at the time, but have not been achieved, as attested by the increase in unemployment and poverty.
The public consultation ran until the end of last week, that is, 15 January, and we are still conducting hearings for the new Commission, who will only take up their posts next February.
I have given the floor to 32 speakers today.
I received a list of 72 people, and asked you to speak in exactly the order in which the names appeared on the list.
Please put your names down as soon as possible for the speeches which will take place in a month. (EL) Mr President, I think that the way in which you select speakers under the standard procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament is biased.
