Instrument for Stability - Financing instrument for development cooperation - Financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide - Financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries - Financing instrument for development cooperation (debate) Τhe next item is the joint debate on the following reports: the report by Franziska Katharina Brantner, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1717/2006 establishing an Instrument for Stability - C7-0042/2009 -, the report by Gay Mitchell, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation and Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide - C7-0043/2009 -, the report by Kinga Gál and Barbara Lochbihler, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation and Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide - C7-0158/2009 -, the report by Helmut Scholz, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high income countries and territories - C7-0101/2009 - and the report by Charles Goerens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation - C7-0079/2010 -.
We have already debated one aspect this morning, but I am going to start by talking about the Instrument for Stability.
This instrument was created in 2006 and is the best funded instrument in the areas of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, conflict prevention, civil post-disaster support, civil peacebuilding measures and also for justice and policing in the anti-terrorism sphere.
First of all, the long-term measures under Article 4(3) are designed to make it possible to put in place measures to promote women in political processes, in particular, with regard to the media.
In other words, this increase in the long-term measures of 5% of the overall budget line to 10% was agreed on a conditional basis and we expect that you, Baroness Ashton, and the External Action Service will stick to this agreement and that the strategy paper for 2012/2013 will reflect that.
My final point concerns the issue of delegated acts.
One final very brief point: when it comes to the Instrument for Stability and programming in the External Action Service - we are truly convinced that planning and programming must continue to rest with those people who have been responsible for this up to now and that those people must not be downgraded to 'financial management' but instead must continue to carry out content planning. (DE) Mr President, I would like to voice my displeasure about the fact that, while we are today dealing with important topics such as funding, development aid and democratic principles, only 14 Members - I believe I have counted correctly - have been able to make it, obviously thanks to some competing or unfortunately-timed event, as everyone else has been disciplined enough to attend the other event.
However, the regulation for development cooperation also contains implementing rules for the European Union's development policy.
This means that Parliament can examine these financing proposals and, if the Commission oversteps its authority, Parliament may adopt resolutions to ask the Commission to change the decisions in question.
Merely between 2006 and today, Parliament has felt that the Commission had exceeded its executive competences in at least 12 cases, but only in three of these did the Commission in fact amend or withdraw its draft decision.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Committee on Development proposed the application of the procedure for delegated acts established by Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
In our opinion, the legislature is responsible for choosing which countries the European Union should supply with development aid.
The beneficiaries of this financing instrument are, in the first instance, civil society organisations, those civil society organisations and individuals which fight for human rights in the most difficult conditions, in third countries.
We believe that these are the very instruments for which it is most crucial that Parliament truly exercise its democratic right of oversight.
It is also a very positive complement to our human rights policy in the European Parliament and in the EU as a whole.
It is therefore particularly important that these instruments provide the ability for the EU to grant financial support to civil society establishments without the government in question having to give its consent, and potentially without it even having to be informed of the financial support in question by the EU.
However, we should take seriously the repeated complaint by small organisations, in particular, that they are put off from using this support and this is an issue we need to tackle now.
By the same token, I see it as a challenge that it is difficult to reach a lot of local organisations in the countryside, rather than in the metropolises of the global South, in other words, to make them aware that a financing instrument of this nature exists and how they can administer it.
I see an opportunity in enlarging the EU embassies on the ground at this point - and it is, of course, actually settled that there are also to be responsibilities, and staff on hand, in each local EU embassy to speak up for human rights and democracy - in these civil servants - who I will now refer to as human rights agents - intensively engaging in taking on precisely this role as a mediator and this remit to provide information and communications, and also in getting through to local initiatives that perhaps do not have the ability to communicate in English, French, Spanish or another EU language.
By evaluation, I mean not only looking back at what went well, but also considering what new ideas we should adopt and how we can further develop the financing instrument.
The proposals before us result from the mid-term review conducted by the Commission in 2009 at Parliament's request.
That review concluded that the instruments are working well.
This is very positive and it gives a stable framework for our external relations until 2013.
In some cases, the Commission proposed only technical amendments in order to bring them into line with the other instruments.
This is about engaging with important bilateral partners and global players with whom the European Union has a strategic interest in promoting diversified links, such as India, China or Brazil.
In order to implement the budget for 2010, the instrument needs to be adopted now, so I very much welcome the work done by the rapporteurs in finding a large measure of agreement.
Even more important is the share of 22% for civil society funding under the crisis response budget since 2007.
Since the proposals concerning the mid-term review, another amendment to the DCI was presented on 17 March 2010.
The so-called Banana Accompanying Measures have a clear objective: to support the adjustment of 10 ACP banana-exporting countries to changing EU import tariffs for bananas.
The EU had to find a solution and conclude an agreement in compliance with WTO rules.
The Banana Accompanying Measures are an integral part of this agreement and the tariff reductions are already in place.
The three chairpersons last week sent an invitation for an informal meeting between the steering committee in charge of this issue in Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
I do not intend to present in detail the Council's position here this afternoon, but I will just say that the Presidency is obviously more than happy to reach an agreement that satisfies the three institutions and that enables us to adopt the financing instruments as quickly as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, we must look at how the financing instruments - the DCI, the stability instruments and the human rights instruments - are important for the soft power that the European Union exercises around the world.
Parliament gave up 16 scrutiny instruments when it created the DCI.
We had 16 core decision powers which we gave up to the Commission in order to control the DCI instrument and facilitate greater cooperation.
Incidentally, the Commission has not, strangely enough, carried out even once, between 1994 and now, an assessment of the assistance's impact on these 12 countries, which is something that must be changed in the future.
The point which the Committee on Budgets is insisting on and which we do not agree with is resources being cut from other policies so that the EUR 190 million in question is allocated for the next three years.
This means that this new policy, even though it could be provided for in the financial framework from the European Commission, ought to be provided for in the budget and not funded at the expense of other programmes.
This concerns delegated acts and the European Parliament's right to scrutiny.
We must make an effort, within the budget of the European Union, to divert more resources to the poorest countries, bearing in mind that the problems with emerging countries are mostly to do with rules, rather than financing.
To conclude, as regards the Instrument for Stability - I still have a few seconds - I would like to say that I very much welcome what Commissioner Piebalgs said, that, indeed, the intention is that we should concentrate, among other things, on the fight against the trafficking of small arms and light weapons.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI) in which I, and also colleagues from the Committee on Development, see an urgent need to strengthen the scrutiny power of Parliament.
Merely having the right of consultation, our proposals and our ideas were not taken up.
Not only the Commission, but we too as a Parliament have an obligation as regards policy coherence in development.
Parliament also has a responsibility towards the citizens of the European Union.
European citizens are in favour of development aid.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the EU is the world's largest multilateral donor of development aid and humanitarian assistance.
All the same, I would like to close by expressing my major concern in respect, in particular, of the Instrument for Stability and the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, as I believe that these instruments are used in an undemocratic and non-transparent way and, in some cases, against the will of the countries in question, which gives them the character of an interventionist EU foreign policy.
All the Commission's money comes from the taxpayers of the Member States or, to be precise, the taxpayers of the 14 Member States which are net contributors.
I therefore leave you and ask you to consider very carefully this question: can you really suppose that hard-pressed European taxpayers and UK taxpayers, especially in today's environment, really want an extra EUR 2 billion to be spent - because that is what these proposals provide for - just so that the EU Commissioner can strut about on the world stage? (DE) Mr President, as ever, the funding bodies of the EU are having some problems.
One example of this is pre-accession aid, which, as we all know, is awarded to potential candidate countries, but which it only makes sense to pay if the states in question are getting to grips with their corruption problems or if the necessary structures are actually established.
This means that the budget allocated to the European instrument for democracy and human rights must be significantly increased.
I would like to use this opportunity to point out a new tool which the European Parliament should help create, and which this instrument could fund in order to assist even more efficiently and with more flexibility the people who often risk their lives in fighting for democracy, rule of law and human rights in countries with dictatorships or oppressive regimes, and in countries seeking a transition towards democracy, but where they meet violent anti-democratic forces and where they need much more assistance in terms of building capacities to defeat these anti-democratic forces.
The fact is that in the blue card procedure, the questioner has 30 seconds and the person who answers has only 30 seconds. (FR) Mr President, I am very embarrassed because I would have liked to have taken part in this discussion.
I would like to congratulate my colleague, Charles Goerens, on his work, since he has succeeded in strengthening the development dimension of the approach, and I would, of course, like to thank Commissioner Piebalgs for the careful and favourable attention he has paid to this request.
Firstly, dismantling the Community preferences system too quickly can and will have dramatic consequences in some ACP countries that still export bananas.
It would have also been helpful perhaps to have had a debate on the quantity of aid and on honouring the commitments made in 2005 by Member States.
I must say that this is rather surprising.
Human rights are our constitutive, if not our most important task as a European Community.
The huge banana exporters, like Chiquita and Del Monte, will gain hugely but African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and small producers will be devastated.
Trade should be for the benefit of small producers and working people - the majority - not major transnational corporations. (EL) Mr President, I fear that the European Union budget for 2011 has erred, both in the provision for medium-term review and by establishing direct revenue from new taxes which, in the final analysis, will be paid by end users, in other words, by European citizens.
I therefore have two specific proposals: firstly, our pay as MEPs should be cut by EUR 1 000 in 2011 and we should each use that money to recruit a young unemployed European citizen from our own country.
Thus, while ordinary people in Greece, France, Ireland and Great Britain are having their societies ripped apart by cuts and their backs broken by taxes, the Scholz report will add EUR 176 million to the EUR 172 million already committed to help third-world capitalists gobble up even more of our jobs.
The Goerens report will blow EUR 190 million, including EUR 17.4 million for a facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries.
It may have escaped your attention, but food prices are soaring in our constituencies as well.
Such is the case for the banana sector, in which ACP countries have benefited from a preferential trading arrangement for their exports to the European Union.
Therefore, in order to comply with WTO rules and to end a long dispute, the European Union accepted to reduce its tariffs in the banana sector in December 2009.
Programming and planning should be carried out by the same expert people who are doing this now, but the External Action Service itself needs more development and human rights experts to understand and work with these instruments in Brussels and in EU delegations in third countries. (EL) Mr President, I should like to refer briefly to the issue of democracy and funding to support it abroad.
We have a particular responsibility in all sorts of relations with countries that are not democracies, whether it be in relation to aid or trade.
In order for every euro in aid to have the optimum effect, our development work needs to be constantly permeated by democracy promoting initiatives and opinion forming.
Solidarity, also, because the trade concessions generously granted by the Commission to the WTO are in danger of dealing a fatal blow to this agricultural sector in our ACP partner countries.
The Council must be responsible and work towards finding a viable solution for the multiannual financing of this programme. (PL) The European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights is, in my view, an instrument that is used and approached too technically at present.
That is why we must also strengthen non-governmental institutions in countries with authoritarian governments.
Finally, the Commission must work to relax financial regulation. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate is likely to create a certain optimism because in theory, it is about defining the procedures for helping banana-producing ACP countries.
Yet, despite this, they have made the effort to accept, at the WTO, an agreement which lowers the European customs tariff to EUR 114 per tonne, in order to put an end to a long-standing dispute with Latin American producer countries.
However, the Commission seems to have forgotten to inform them of the bilateral negotiations under way with these same countries on a far lower tariff: EUR 75 per tonne.
In other words, the commercial consequences of these agreements will be deeply felt in a context in which the lion's share of the European banana market is already held by multinationals based in Latin America.
Projects have been launched as part of the instrument, including the one launched in 2009 on capacity building and promoting human rights and democratic institutions in Moldova's Transnistria region.
I believe that it is natural for us to carry out such evaluations of the instruments for funding development cooperation, just as I think it is natural for us to exercise our right of control as part of the comitology procedure and highlight a series of problems linked to the way in which the Commission has implemented the instrument and interpreted some of its basic provisions.
I wanted to speak in support of the proposals tabled by the Committee on Development, which will supplement the accompanying measures proposed by the Commission, especially for the banana sector.
I, too, believe that, in addition to human rights and the promotion of democracy, we must not forget this fundamental objective of eradicating poverty. (SK) The proposal of the Commission, amending and supplementing the instrument on cooperation with industrialised countries, relates to the extension of the geographic jurisdiction from the original 17 countries to a further 46 countries, to which, thus far, the financing instrument for development cooperation has applied.
I firmly believe that modernisation of the Korean democratic people's army should not be a priority to which the citizens of the European Union should make financial contributions, and that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea does not yet belong to the list of countries proposed in the appendix by the Commission. (DE) Mr President, before I start, I would like to thank you for the constructive way in which you chair our session and for your fairness in naming who is to speak and who is not to.
This means that they make up 90% of the publicly funded development aid in the world.
However, every year, EUR 3 billion worth of aid gets lost due to qualitative defects.
It is absolutely possible to use development aid as a means of applying pressure to conclude readmission agreements.
Above and beyond the flexibility given to these instruments, however, I would like to stress the importance of really ensuring that small organisations and structures, too, can benefit from these grants, because nowadays, we are unfortunately too often faced with situations in which only large NGOs benefit from them, and only for a short period.
The additional EUR 176 million will not just be given to the poorest countries, but also to emergent countries whose exports are already and increasingly destroying our manufacturing bases and the jobs of our taxpayers.
A desire on the part of the EU to promote democracy and human rights in the Third World might be admirable, if it were not for the fact that European Union countries can, and do, imprison people who have committed neither acts of violence nor theft, but simply expressed heretical or dissenting opinions on political or academic subjects.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this has been a fascinating debate.
In a way, it very much coincides with yesterday's speech here by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, when he clearly said that the EU and the United Nations share responsibility in this world in the fight against poverty, the fight against climate change and the fight against nuclear proliferation.
On the whole, our citizens today are not too worried about this issue because they believe that we take care of this issue and also promote our values.
Concerning peace and security, it is true that we do not have too much conflict, but that is because we have an extremely active external policy in order to prevent any conflict as soon as it starts.
I believe that today's debate was basically very positive about the experience that we have had from the financial instruments.
There is a Court of Auditors of the European Union that looks not only at whether the money is spent correctly, but also at the political reasoning behind this.
It is necessary to adopt banana accompanying measures as soon as possible.
It is not only our credibility which is at stake; countries really face a challenge.
We have started to debate what will happen after 2013, and I would draw your attention to the fact that this is the beginning of the debate.
We are not prejudging what will happen after 2013.
I understand that this is not the best possible way, but it means that before adjusting the financial framework, we should agree what we would like to achieve, which instruments should be applied, and what scope we would like to see.
I believe this means that, for all the scrutinies that we will carry out and on which we should agree, we need to follow the letter of the Lisbon Treaty, with the political willingness to find the right compromise so that democratic scrutiny can be fully emphasised to show that it is efficient, swift and effective.
rapporteur. - What will happen after 2013?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to offer a heartfelt greeting to Commissioner Piebalgs and appeal to him to take an active part, as I believe he sincerely will, in the measures to be voted on tomorrow, because it is a matter of great importance for the European Parliament, which will have greater power after the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to thank my fellow Members for participating in this debate.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his constructive approach to this debate.
What we have seen today is that - as almost all speakers confirmed - the European financing instrument for democracy and human rights is a very important and perhaps the only instrument of the European Union for the democratisation of third countries and the defence of human rights designed in such a way that civil society organisations can receive it directly.
At the same time, and for this very reason, since this programme involves such a priority area and we are talking about an instrument that is intended directly for these NGOs and civil society organisations, it is important that Parliament has a say in the elaboration of the strategy and long-term programme, and it is essential that Parliament should see how these funds are used, and not only at the end of the seven-year financial framework.
This is why we consider it important to emphasise Parliament's democratic right of oversight and its right to have a say.
I believe that a joint solution will be found, especially after the meeting this morning with both Mrs Ashton and Commissioner Piebalgs, and I, too, seriously believe that if the political will is there, the legal obstacles will be overcome.
However, the one point on which we have not been able to reach agreement so far is the establishment of a binding right of supervision for Parliament, which the Treaty of Lisbon allows for.
I therefore join the multiple others who have expressed the hope that we reach a compromise - in other words, a political solution - quickly and one that takes full account of Parliament's rights.
Mr President, Commissioner Piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, as the debate draws to a close, I would just like to express my sincere thanks, once again, to the shadow rapporteurs and to Mrs Lochbihler, for the constructive and results-oriented cooperation stretching back over a year of working together.
I can therefore only repeat what I said to Baroness Ashton and to you, Commissioner, this morning during the briefing of the steering committee for the working group on delegated acts, which was that I think there is an urgent need to quickly reach a solution in relation to delegated acts, whilst preserving the legal and political responsibility of the legislator and the Commission.
We plan to release up to EUR 348 million for cooperation in the fields of science, academic exchanges, the Erasmus Mundus programme, culture, environmental protection and renewable energy sources and the stimulation of bilateral trade relations.
Negotiations under way are already aiming at tariffs close to EUR 75 per tonne of bananas, whereas we are working here on the basis of EUR 114 per tonne.
Thirdly, since the world is not going to end in 2013, which is the year when the Banana Accompanying Measures will end, we continue to believe that it is important to start preparing right now for the period after 2013.
Indeed, the EUR 114 tariff paid at the borders of the European Union on each tonne of bananas is already soon going to be exceeded in practice.
I said at the outset that we were already talking about EUR 75 per tonne.
I hope that these measures can help ensure the long-term survival of the banana sector and that those who are unable to keep producing can find alternatives.
