Presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report - 2009 (debate) The first item is the presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report for 2009.
President of the Court of Auditors. - Mr President, it is an honour for me to be able to participate in the debate today on the European Court of Auditors' annual report on the implementation of the 2009 budget, which I have already presented to you and to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In the area of agriculture and natural resources, the Court estimates the level of errors to be somewhat higher than in 2008.
The estimate for the most likely error in cohesion spending was significantly lower than in previous years, and for the budget as a whole, the Court's estimate of errors has fallen over recent years.
Moreover, there is no guarantee that the overall fall in the estimated error rate over recent years will continue, so long as the systems covering the vast majority of disbursements remain only partially effective.
This year's annual report confirms the conclusions and the recommendations set out in the Court opinion on the risks and challenges for improving the financial management of the European Union.
Ensuring the European funds are spent optimally places heavy responsibilities on all of us: on the Commission, when proposing legislation and implementing the budget; on the Member States in managing, day-to-day, some 80% of the European budget; on Parliament and on the Council as legislator and as the discharge authority; and on the Court as the Union's external auditor.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, two days ago, President Caldeira and I already had the opportunity to exchange our views and to discuss the Court's annual report with the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
With regard to the legality and regularity of transactions, I am pleased that the positive trend in the reduction of the overall error rate continued in 2009.
Revenue and commitments for the entire budget are legal and regular in all material respects.
This has been achieved mainly thanks to a substantial reduction of the error rate in cohesion; this progress reflects the Commission's enhanced supervisory role through the ex-ante assessment of management and control systems of the Member States.
Finally, in its report, the Court recognises the higher quality of the information about recoveries provided by the Commission, as disclosed in the accounts.
The increase in the value of funds recovered from projects where errors were found or from national authorities responsible is indeed another sign of this Commission's determination.
I fully share the caution of President Caldeira when he warns of possible oscillations of the error rate, in particular in cohesion, in the future.
To conclude, I am pleased that the 2009 annual report corroborates that our efforts bear results.
I would like to say to everyone who constantly maintains that the European budget is exposed to major risks, it is true that European spending should certainly be subject to more consistent controls than national spending.
I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, but I would also like to say that I am disappointed by this annual report.
Mr President, Mr Šemeta, Mr Caldeira, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this report.
It is a good thing that the reduction in the error rate has continued this year.
Between 1994 and 2006, the Member States have been wrongly allocated a phenomenal EUR 7.7 billion in the area of cohesion policy.
Only EUR 709 million has been paid back, which demonstrates very clearly the difference in these circumstances.
Thirdly, all the Member States must finally sign and submit national management declarations.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are still faced with the fundamental problem that Member States are not doing what they ought to be doing, which is properly monitoring the money they pay out to beneficiaries.
I have the impression that many people in Europe are more pessimistic than the Court of Auditors.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for an excellent report.
In 2008, billions of euro were paid out in contravention of the rules.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, year after year over the last 16 years, the auditors have been refusing to clear 90% or more of the budget, and this year is no exception.
This year, the auditors claim that at least GBP 6 billion should not have been paid out.
Mr Cameron, in accepting a 2.9% increase for the 2011 EU budget, you have failed dramatically.
On behalf of British taxpayers, I hereby request that you lead the demand for a significant reduction of the 2011 budget. (DE) Mr President, it is true that the error rate in the area of cohesion has fallen significantly from 54% in 2007 to 36% in 2009.
It is also a fact that, according to this report from the Court of Auditors, the control systems in the area of cohesion are not effective.
In addition, it is a fact that at least 3% of the money should not have been paid out at all.
Finally, I would like to say that it is important in future for the Court of Auditors not only to check that payments are being made legally, but also to ensure that they are cost-effective and efficient. (RO) First of all, I wish to thank Victor Caldeira for this clear report, which is relevant to the Commission's activities and the implementation of the 2009 budget.
Secondly, where errors have been made in the management of European funds, every state must pay the money back to the Commission.
In other words, Europe's citizens pay money once to create the European budget and, on the other hand, as losers, they again cover the loss in the national budget.
To spend better the money we have, we must first of all know where problems are and how we can solve them. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we can now talk about a reduction in errors, we owe this to the skill, independence and professionalism of the Court of Auditors, and I should like President Caldeira to take note of this.
We must still see what we can do to improve, however, because there are still too many things that are not right, particularly in very sensitive sectors such as agriculture and cohesion, with often worrying error rates in sectors where fraud in areas such as contracts and over-invoicing is rife.
I believe that we must block funds to prevent repetition of this type of behaviour, particularly in states where serious errors - I am not talking about minor errors - and very substantial episodes of fraud have been going on for years.
Thus, out of a total budget of EUR 35 billion, there are EUR 2 billion for which no declaration of assurance could be granted.
Yesterday, Mr Engwirda, a member of the Court, stated that the errors were primarily due to the complexity of the procedures.
In other words, it is not 36% of the payments that are in error, but 36% of the payments in the sample.
It is at a level of around 5%, in relation to which we cannot at the same time talk about errors at a level of 20, 30 or 40%, because this simply confuses the overall picture.
Fortunately, we can confirm that we are moving in the right direction, even though there are still many problems.
However, because things are moving in the right direction, I think we should use the time to take a closer look at what the next step should be.
I therefore call not only on the European Parliament, but on the Commission, too, to demonstrate a considerable willingness to provide greater transparency and to engage in this debate. (CS) It is now the second time in the current session that the annual accounts of the European Union have come up for discussion.
On the other hand, I am surprised at the level of error that is again occurring in almost 92% of budget expenditure, counting all chapters with the exception of administrative expenditure and economic affairs.
I would like to ask to what extent are the Member States responsible for these errors and to what extent is a lack of control on the part of the Commission responsible.
The answer indicated in the report is that there are many deficiencies in the actual control systems of the Member States.
Nevertheless, we need to draw clear and obvious consequences from the report as to what we have to do here in Parliament, in the Commission and in the other EU institutions.
There is one measure in particular which I would like to mention, namely, that it would be extremely important that the Court of Auditors prepare a breakdown by Member States in the next period to show the extent of the error rate in the use of EU funds and the standard of operation of the control mechanism in each state.
In addition, I would like to know the opinion regarding the significant increase in staff in the Committee of the Regions between 2009 and 2010. (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, it is vitally important that we emphasise the fact that the Court of Auditors' conclusions acknowledge the progress which has been made by the Commission in controlling the absorption of European funds.
The quality of the information supplied to us by the Court of Auditors should be even better as well.
The good news for 2009 is that the level of irregularities in the area of cohesion policy has fallen significantly compared to last year.
More than 5% of all the cohesion policy payments were in error and 3% should not have been made at all.
This amounts to around EUR 700 million.
We can discuss this contradiction - errors in the Member States which are the responsibility of the Commission - in our home countries, we can explain it to the media and we can tell our citizens about it.
Mr Šemeta, you need to take control in this area and you will have our support for doing so. (NL) Madam President, representatives of the Commission and the Court of Auditors, I rise as coordinator for regional policy of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
I am not necessarily concerned by the error rates that have been highlighted, because I believe that the auditing process is a learning system.
Our task is to work together to avoid these errors occurring in future.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the debate today demonstrates that further progress was achieved in 2009 in the management of the European budget.
However, the Court also highlights the areas where further progress is needed by all financial actors.
That is a huge amount, and what is more important is that the number of actions in 2010 almost doubled compared with the number of actions in 2009.
President of the Court of Auditors. - Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for all the kind comments that you have addressed to the Court on this occasion, as a tribute also to those who work in our institution each day addressing, with the highest professional standards, and in accordance with international audit standards, the concerns of this institution.
We have also provided you, in particular in the area of cohesion, with more information than last year, because last year we said that at least 11% of the funds should not have been paid; this year, we are able to say that the most likely error estimated is indeed over 5%, which we could not say last year, and that at least 3% of the funds should not have been reimbursed.
If we have to look forward, I would say that we now have a unique opportunity to build a new momentum for a better management of the European Union budget.
So the Commission, the Council, the European Parliament are therefore confronted now with a period for taking serious decisions to improve the situation in the future.
If the European Court of Auditors can assist in that, I would suggest it should be by building on the recommendations that we have already put forward in our opinion on the key risks and challenges for improving the financial management of the Union.
We have the opportunity now and the Court of Auditors is looking forward to assisting you in this task.
I fail to understand why the Union does not enter into its accounts the EUR 37.2 billion that the Member States owe for staff pensions, since it has approximately EUR 44 billion negative own capital as a result.
In any serious organisation, the auditor's report should be sent before 30 June in the year following the year audited.
The European Court of Auditors is now submitting its sixteenth report, through which it issues the statement of assurance concerning the legality and regularity of the operations on which the annual accounts of the EU budget are based.
For example, the Court of Auditors states that, for projects in the area of cohesion, the level of error is higher than 5%, which, in my opinion, is too high, despite the fact that there has been an improvement in recent years.
In my opinion, the European Commission should make every effort to reduce the error level to the maximum acceptable level of 2%.
In its annual report on the implementation of the 2009 budget, the Court observes in relation to the reliability of the accounts that some consolidated entities have not provided any statement in relation to their consolidated accounts, or have submitted an amended statement.
Since the college became a community agency on 1 January 2006, the Court of Auditors has only issued reservations on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2007.
