In Sudan, the African Union was the first to deploy a peacekeeping mission.
In Somalia, AMISOM, the African Union Mission in Somalia, is the only actor present on the ground in Mogadishu.
The African Union has become the organisation that establishes norms, not only in this sphere but also in that of political governance, on the African continent and in the process of economic integration.
During the next summit, we shall clearly express our opinion, while knowing perfectly well that the summit will undoubtedly not bring about a change in the position of the African Union, which has also been clearly established.
The Union should be pleased with this new context, but since it has an effect on European Union-African relations, we are also asking for a renewed focus on the known elements that constitute our trump cards and bring added value, for better coordination to be ensured and for priority to be given to situations that are of advantage to all.
For the Union, we find ourselves in an institutional situation without equal elsewhere in the world: two Unions that have regional integration as their goal and which wish to contribute to the advent of a multilateral system of global governance.
Discussions with our Libyan hosts and our opposite numbers from the African Union have been useful.
The principal discussions at the summit will be on its central theme: investment, economic growth and job creation, as well as on several associated secondary themes.
Participants in the political dialogue at ministerial level, which took place in Malawi, were able to finalise the summit communiqué, the declaration of Tripoli, and the joint action plan for 2011-2013.
Finally, I should like to say to you, on behalf of President Van Rompuy, that I warmly welcome Parliament's positive participation in the discussions on the future of relations between Africa and the European Union, and I welcome the meeting between the European Parliament and the Pan-African Parliament, which will be held in Tripoli on 27 November, just before the summit.
I am equally pleased with the tenor of this debate today, and I await your opinions with interest.
Earlier this month, the Commission presented proposals on how to consolidate our relationship by adding strength to it and focusing on inclusive and sustainable growth in the long term.
The summit in Tripoli will be an excellent occasion to discuss ways of improving our cooperation in this respect.
This ambitious agenda requires building on the success of the Lisbon Summit in 2007 and on the results achieved since then by the Joint Africa-EU Strategy and its first action plan.
In order to deliver better results, the action plan for 2011-2013 should give priority to activities that have a clear regional, continental or global added value.
The summit will be an excellent opportunity to plot our way forward.
Concentrating on good governance and on the use of this potential will lead, or may lead, to a qualitative change.
The political mandate of the African Union is weak and the African continent is still divided, including economically.
Europe has an overwhelming responsibility in these areas.
If the European Union-Africa Summit is going to contribute to opening the way to better representation for Africa on the Security Council and at the G20, and put it in a better position to eradicate poverty, the summit will not have been in vain.
I believe that the other European institutions should proceed in the same manner if we wish to build a real strategic partnership between Africa and the European Union.
The European Union must work to make the best of these opportunities to intensify dialogue and cooperation in support of regional integration in Africa.
Governments' responsibilities must not predominate over those of civil society and the participation of all those involved in strategies of sustainable economic and social growth must be guaranteed. (DE) Madam President, specific initiatives for growth and employment are to be discussed at the EU-Africa summit, and that is a good thing.
In fact, if we want the countries in Africa to become the Union's genuine partners and take control of their own destiny, there is no other way to achieve this than by promoting economic growth.
Political dialogue must therefore be strengthened and the establishment of democracy in this region must be a matter of priority raised systematically in relations with Africa. (PL) Madam President, achievement of the Millennium Development Goals occupies a strategic position in the new plan to implement a joint Africa-EU strategy.
A fundamental problem is to reduce poverty, which has become worse as a result of the crisis.
Every year, this amounts to 40 million, equivalent to the population of a large European country.
The legal and judicial inviolability of private investment is one of the keys to Africa's economic and social development.
At the social level, dialogue with local NGOs and all the players in civil society must be given priority.
The summit will revolve entirely around an equal partnership for a better common future.
It is a failure of our diplomacy in Africa that any African government still has any regard for Mugabe.
If African countries are to attract jobs, know-how and major investment, there is clearly a need for greater political stability, a normal legal environment and acceptable rules for entrepreneurs, who will then be willing to develop their operations in African countries in an honest way.
I think that the proposals tabled by the European Commission will, in terms of strengthening relations between both continents, facilitate the adoption of a specific action plan during the Summit.
Eradication of poverty, human rights and economic governance are common challenges requiring a common approach.
I think that, in particular, better coordination is needed between the four priority action areas: financing, food security, health and education. (SV) Madam President, it should perhaps also be pointed out that Africa has in fact made some improvements itself recently.
The economic crisis has unsettled and is still unsettling Europe.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this has been an extremely rich debate and I would just like to emphasise a couple of points in answer to some questions.
I believe that we need to address two critical issues.
I believe that this summit will have a lasting impact, because I believe that the emphasis is on the right areas.
I should also like to reply to one question in particular.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (PT) The Africa-EU strategic partnership established in 2007 at the Lisbon Summit allowed the two continents to define common interests and strategic objectives, going beyond traditional EU development policy.
