The South Caucasus is not only a region in the immediate neighbourhood of the Union - Romania and Bulgaria have a sea border with it - but also a region of great strategic importance for the Union in political, economic and security aspects.
Therefore, the European Union's main objective there should be to participate actively in its stabilisation and to encourage the development of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia towards stability and democracy; to establish good neighbourly relations and integration in EU policies.
Unfortunately, it was owing to the 2008 war in Georgia that the Union realised that it needs to play a more active role in the region as far as conflict prevention and conflict management are concerned.
The European Union has the means and experience to contribute to the creation of a more tolerant atmosphere in the South Caucasus.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am pleased to participate in this exchange of views with the European Parliament on the European Union's relationship with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, the three countries of the South Caucasus.
I already had a very good discussion on the South Caucasus with the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee on 28 April, shortly after my visit to the region.
The results will be presented in the framework of next year's package, which should make our policy more coherent and which will, without doubt, lead to a higher degree of ownership by our neighbours.
In the light of the report by Mr Kirilov, which is a very valuable and much appreciated contribution, I conclude that the European Parliament's views converge very much with those of the Commission on a number of points.
The commitment of our South Caucasus partners to approximation with Europe needs to be translated into further progress towards democracy, market economy and political stability on the ground.
I thus call on Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to move forward in their efforts towards a modern, inclusive, pluralistic democratic and prosperous society at peace with their neighbours.
I know that this report is complex and sensitive in many areas.
The strategy is vitally important for ensuring a consistent good neighbour policy.
Cooperation with the South Caucasus in the energy sector and in fostering democracy and good governance must be included among the EU's main priorities.
This is important for regional cooperation as well, and also because of the geopolitical situation of Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan, on the one hand, and of Russia, Iran and Turkey as a candidate for accession to the European Union, on the other.
This is another reason why the signing of an association agreement and of comprehensive free trade agreements must become a key objective in our foreign policy for the South Caucasus.
Mr President, we will be voting today on a report on the need for an EU strategy for the South Caucasus.
Given the prevalent political situation in the region, it is crucial for the EU to play a more active political role.
As shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I have been working very hard in particular to highlight the EU's role in the South Caucasus and to identify what concrete measures we in the European Union can take in order to help the affected countries and to bring them closer to the EU at their own individual pace on the basis of their own specific conditions.
The report that we are voting on today received broad political support in the committee, which was pleasing to see.
We must make it quite clear that in Europe, regional cooperation formed the basis for us to come together and for peaceful development and it must be the same in this region.
I am thinking in particular of Turkey, which is a neighbour we can work very closely with in this region.
The members of this group, and Mr Severin and myself in particular, have repeatedly raised the idea of a union between the EU and the countries around the Black Sea, because we believe that cooperation between this region and the EU, but also with its neighbours Turkey and Russia, is very important.
The conclusion of this report, which emphasises a key factor for our energy security, is that we, the European Union, need to have greater involvement in order to normalise the security situation in the region.
It is, unfortunately, the case that the three frozen conflicts in this region represent a huge obstacle to the full development of the European neighbourhood policy and not only that, but also the development of the countries themselves.
Fortunately, all of these aspects are covered in this report and I see this in the same way as the previous speakers.
We in the EU believe in open borders and free trade as a sine qua non for peace and stability on our continent and also in the South Caucasus.
Europe has embarked on an interesting Eastern Partnership project, which has met with support and interest from Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan.
However, the challenges to be faced are many and concern energy, economic and political issues, and especially security issues, as in the case of Georgia, the Nagorno-Karabakh question and the tensions between Turkey and Armenia.
The development of relations between the European Union and these three countries will be much more effective if a climate of mutual cooperation can be established between Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan, in accordance with the principle of territorial integrity and with the UN resolutions that form the basis for ending the unresolved conflicts in the area.
There are several very important dimensions to our economic cooperation, one of them being energy cooperation and security, especially in the context of valuable projects supported by the European Commission - such as the Nabucco Pipeline project.
The Caspian Sea and the Black Sea regions are vital for European energy security and the EU strategy for the South Caucasus rightly recognises those elements.
Mr President, the report by Mr Kirilov speaks about the need for an EU strategy for the South Caucasus.
As has been said already, Turkey, I am sure, could be very instrumental from this point of view.
In this respect, we have to accept that those conflicts are only parts of a coherent, broader and more complex problem with a bigger, global relevance.
Finally, I think that we have to consider a conference on security and cooperation in the South Caucasus with a view to developing a stability pact for that region. (PL) As permanent rapporteur of the European Parliament for Armenia, I should like to emphasise the need to define a clear and effective European Union strategy for the South Caucasus.
The example of Georgia shows that such reforms have already brought results.
In Doing Business 2010, a ranking of business-friendly states prepared by the World Bank, Georgia is in 11th place, which means that in four years, it has advanced by as many as 101 places.
Transparency International has said that, as a result of the reduction in bureaucracy achieved during President Saakashvili's term of office, the Corruption Perceptions Index for Georgia has halved.
The European Union should appreciate the fact that President Saakashvili is consistently applying a free-market policy, and his reforms are a good example for the other Caucasus states. (DE) Mr President, on 9 May, President Buzek and 20 000 people celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Robert Schuman declaration here in Strasbourg.
Against this background, I would like to say that the South Caucasus is faced with two alternatives.
However, Armenia would be much more credible if it finally withdrew its troops from Azerbaijan.
It is not so easy to talk about regional cooperation when we know very well that all three countries have been damaged by frozen or completely fresh conflicts.
It is important to accelerate the development of direct contact between citizens of the South Caucasus and European Union Member States.
Finally, I would very much like those of us who are talking, today, about the democratic deficit in the countries of this region, to speak as clearly about the democratic deficit in a neighbour of these countries, I mean Russia, so that we do not have a double standard. (PL) Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia are undoubtedly European states, they are undoubtedly European nations.
I would like to devote a few seconds to the question of Georgian territorial integrity.
It is very good that the Union has declared its support in this matter.
The Union is seen, not only in the world, but also - and more importantly - in these countries, as a guarantor of security in the region.
Unfortunately, some parts of the ceasefire agreements of 12 August and 8 September 2008 have not been implemented.
This should, without doubt, also apply to Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. (RO) Bearing in mind the importance of the geopolitical situation of Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan in relation to the European Union, Turkey, as a European Union candidate country, Russia and Iran, it is necessary to devise a European Union strategy for the South Caucasus, focused on promoting economic growth, political stability and respect for human rights.
Energy cooperation must be stepped up specifically by completing the Nabucco project as quickly as possible and by providing the EU's support for energy projects which promote energy efficiency and the development of alternative energy sources in the South Caucasus. (PL) Georgia and Armenia, and this is stressed by the authors of the report, are dynamically and successfully implementing a European strategy, a neighbourhood policy strategy.
Mr President, in the context of the South Caucasus, mention is very often made of frozen conflicts and ethnic problems.
If we want the South Caucasus to be free from war, we must go for modernisation, because Georgia at least, but also Armenia and Azerbaijan, have recorded such high economic growth in recent years that they deserve our support.
I think that neither side should stipulate conditions for ratifying these protocols which are in the interest of both the Turkish and Armenian peoples.
As the report correctly notes, the negotiations between Armenia and Turkey on opening the border and establishing diplomatic relations and those being conducted in the OSCE Minsk Group about Nagorno-Karabakh must be treated as separate issues.
The European Union must definitely make a more active commitment in the future settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
Based on our experience in the Balkans and recently from Georgia as well, the European Union is in a good position to play a key role in this region.
The problems which we have to solve are, principally, questions of the territorial integrity of these countries, but also how to strengthen them economically.
Mr President, I congratulate Mr Kirilov and Mr Kazak on their work.
I look forward, as the European Union develops a common foreign and security policy, to a more active engagement of the Union on all aspects of relations with the Black Sea region. (RO) I, too, would like to congratulate Mr Kirilov and thank him for his cooperation in drafting the report.
However, I would like to say that it is good that Armenia will also be involved in these projects, including transport-related projects.
Stability in the Caucasus is undoubtedly also in the EU's interests, but we must not leave the responsibility for this plan to Turkey, otherwise new dependencies and even pressures will arise in the accession process.
The ongoing power struggles over the European supply of natural gas have already delayed the construction of the large-scale Nabucco pipeline project, which has been in the planning stage for a long time.
I hope that the competing South Stream project will have more success, so that the resources from the Caspian area are not lost to China. (SK) Armenian Government representatives yesterday warned me that the report on the need for an EU strategy for the South Caucasus, in the section dealing with the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, includes formulations which do not conform to the official EU position as set out in the provisions of the declaration adopted by the foreign ministers of all OSCE states, and the provisions of the declaration issued by OSCE ministers in Athens on 2 December 2009.
If these items are adopted in the proposed wording, they could become a serious obstacle to further progress in the process of a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh.
In the interests of enabling the previously-mentioned concerns to be reviewed, I would therefore like to propose that we consider one of the two previously-mentioned options: either to remove the contentious provisions from the report, or to postpone voting on the report until a later date, so as to give our friends in the Caucasus time to explain their position on the report to the European Parliament.
Firstly, I believe that we have a strategy, through the Eastern Partnership, to get these three countries closer to the European Union - and, in fact, they are saying 'as close as it gets'.
I hope that the Council and the Commission will take on board the recommendation made by the Parliament in this text and devise a comprehensive strategy for the EU towards the South Caucasus, and I would like to point out that Commissioner Füle made a very timely visit to this region.
The three countries in the South Caucasus region, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, are part of both the Black Sea Synergy and the Eastern Partnership.
The European Commission must come up with specific initiatives on cooperation in the following areas: energy security, transport, economic development and environmental protection.
in writing. - The situation in the South Caucasus region needs especially now a proactive approach by the European Union with the Lisbon Treaty providing the EU with a mandate to become much more engaged and present in the region.
The conflicts in the South Caucasus have reached a very dangerous ceiling, where we have got used to the idea that they are intractable conflicts.
Ceterum censeo, France has decided to sell a Mistral class warship to Russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
