Key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the CITES (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council on key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in Doha, 13-25 March 2010, by Jo Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - B7-0003/2010), and the oral question to the Commission on key objectives for the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in Doha, 13-25 March 2010, by Jo Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - B7-0004/2010).
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Samecki, 2010 is the International Year of Biodiversity and the EU is about to press ahead with a new strategy for biodiversity, in other words, for the protection of flora and fauna within the area of the European Union.
There will be an opportunity for this next month at the 15th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in Doha.
The EU must make itself a champion for all species which, as a result of various different factors, but in particular, over-exploitation or destructive and illegal practices, are endangered or even threatened with extinction.
We are most definitely opposed to the downlisting of this animal from Appendix I to Appendix II.
The prohibition of international trade, particularly in ivory, must remain in place.
Climate change is threatening to destroy the habitat of this species and there is also an increase in trade in the body parts of polar bears.
We are therefore in favour of uplisting the polar bear from Appendix II to Appendix I.
The risk to this fish is increasing and gaining momentum and therefore, the vast majority of us in the committee were of the opinion that this species should be included in Appendix I.
We need to take a long-term view and should provide proper protection for the Atlantic bluefin tuna in Appendix I.
I am very grateful for your interest in the positions to be taken at the next Conference of the Parties to the CITES Convention - the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora - to be held in Doha (Qatar) on 13 to 25 March.
The next Conference of the Parties, to be held in Doha in March, referred to as the 'COP XV', is a great opportunity to debate a series of proposals to change the classification of various species of flora and fauna in the appendices to the Convention according to the level of threat, and other proposals to improve the application and observance of the Convention.
It is therefore difficult at this time to give detailed answers on these issues.
The Conference of the Parties to CITES will once again have to adopt more crucial decisions to protect species threatened by over-exploitation, to which international trade could be contributing.
The European Union must ensure that the Convention continues to be an essential instrument for contributing to the conservation and sustainable management of precious wild flora and fauna resources.
The Presidency, working together with the Member States and the Commission, will attend the Doha conference in this spirit, and will work constructively to ensure its success.
The Commission will, in the coming days, adopt a proposal for the EU position in view of this meeting.
In the first place, the European Union considers that CITES is an appropriate instrument to regulate trade in all species which are affected by trade.
The European Union is also proposing to arrange for the protection afforded by CITES to the tiger, which is one of the most endangered species in the world. 2010 is the international year for tigers and is a perfect opportunity to strengthen the current mechanisms in CITES to allow for a merciless fight against illegal trade in this species and improved transparency in range states on how the tiger populations are conserved.
I would also like to touch upon some of the other important proposals which Parliament has also clearly identified.
The final Commission position will take account of the latest scientific information on the stock and of the outcome of the meeting of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna which took place in November last year.
The Commission is very worried about the high level of poaching for elephants and illegal ivory trade which has been observed recently.
We also consider that proposals submitted to CITES with a view to downlisting some elephant populations from CITES Appendix I to Appendix II need to be assessed objectively on the basis of the rules agreed within CITES.
International trade is limited but might exacerbate the pressure on the species.
At the last CITES meeting in 2007, the European Union backed a proposal by the United States to regulate international trade in both species and we have again cosponsored a USA proposal for COP15.
The CITES Secretariat announced last week that it proposes including listing tuna in Appendix I, which means a ban on global trade.
Instead of 19 000 tonnes of bluefin tuna, as proposed by the ICCAT for 2008, it is estimated that 50 000 tonnes were caught.
We propose that the global trade should be stopped today, while we still have time to save tuna, that trade should continue within the European Union, which is not affected by CITES and, at the same time, that the European Union should compensate fishermen and undertakings affected by the ban on exports.
The S&amp;D Group has tabled an amendment to this effect.
Japan, where apparently the word 'conservation' actually means buy en masse, kill the fish, and freeze them for 20 or 30 years so that they can be eaten in a couple of decades time.
The Mafia gets involved in this business.
Appendix II will make no difference.
So let us back the proposal that this fish be cited on Appendix I.
Yesterday, Blijdorp Zoo in Rotterdam announced that not a single European zoo has managed to breed polar bears.
People apparently get a kick from shooting polar bears for fun, which I find truly repulsive.
That is why I am calling on the EU to support the proposal for a ban on the commercial trade in polar bears before it is too late; the bluefin tuna also belongs in Appendix 1 without further ado.
We are talking about sharks, tuna, polar bears, big cats and elephants.
The proposal put forward by Monaco to include bluefin tuna in Appendix 1 of CITES may prove to be beneficial, given that this species is condemned to extinction unless urgent drastic measures are taken to protect it.
In 2007, the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna adopted a much more comprehensive programme known as the 'Blue Tuna Catch Documentation Programme', which came into force in spring 2008.
Including in Appendix I, which concerns species that are genuinely endangered, a species that still numbers - thank God - millions of living specimens would set a very dangerous precedent.
Let us remember that there are entire communities that survive on this ancient activity, which dates back at least 11 200 years, so much so that in some cases, UNESCO considers it an activity to be preserved and promoted. (PT) Mr President, the UN states that biological diversity is currently experiencing its worst crisis since the dinosaurs became extinct 65 million years ago.
CITES constituted the principal global agreement on the conservation of wild species with the aim of avoiding the over-exploitation of species of wild fauna and flora by international trade.
We must be ambitious and demand the protection of all species threatened with extinction. (NL) I could talk about all the species on the agenda of the CITES conference at the end of March, but I want to highlight one, just because it so perfectly represents what we as a species are currently engaged in: the bluefin tuna.
A few weeks ago, EUR 120 000 was paid for a single bluefin tuna.
The only salvation for the bluefin tuna is an international trade ban.
I call upon the European Commission to quickly present the decision to the Council in order to place the bluefin tuna in Appendix 1 and I ask the Spanish Presidency to step out of its own shadow and to adopt that decision.
Finally, there will also be a delegation from the European Parliament in Doha.
My wish is that the EP delegation will also play its part in determining the EU's position, so that, together, we can ensure that these animal species are saved for our future. (ES) Mr President, I would like to ask the Spanish Presidency to indeed preserve bluefin tuna, but also to preserve the traditional Mediterranean almadraba fishing methods.
I think that is the perfect balance which, at times, is impossible to achieve, but we need to try to find this path so that we can preserve this species and ensure that it does not become extinct, without punishing the traditional Mediterranean fishing methods such as the almadraba technique. (PL) Mr President, many cases of the illegal smuggling of endangered animals have been noted in Member States of the European Union.
The European Union, which has common external borders, should take particular care not to become a market where protected species of animals or plants are smuggled or brought in with impunity.
Inclusion of the bluefin tuna in Appendix I to the CITES convention would appear to be fully justified and the only way to prevent its becoming extinct. (ES) Mr President, I share the concern regarding the biological situation of the population of bluefin tuna, and I agree with the need to adopt effective conservation and management measures that not only prevent it from collapsing, but also guarantee the sustainability of fisheries and responsible trade.
This line of action is compatible with the integration of bluefin tuna into Appendix 2 of CITES, but it cannot be reconciled with Appendix 1, which should be reserved for a different scenario and not be subject to conditions that would erode its credibility as a CITES instrument.
It is vitally important that ICCAT is allowed to do its job.
For example, in 2006, the total allowable catch was 36 000 tonnes.
The total allowable catch for this year has been reduced to 13 500 tonnes.
From an Irish perspective - and let me say that we have no vested interest apart from the fact that we have a bycatch of 100 tonnes of bluefin tuna - are we to catch bluefin tuna by way of a bycatch, and when they are caught and killed to put them back into the sea?
I believe it is important to take sensible and realistic measures to protect both stocks and the fishing sector in Europe.
The FAO would never allow itself to say anything different or to support a different position for these other endangered species.
The European Union has been spending up to EUR 34 million on modernisation in recent years.
The only guarantee of this is Appendix 1, and therefore any other measure that could clearly counteract this proposal is a bad measure that will prolong the agony, not put an end to it.
We must remember that bluefin tuna feeds a EUR 6 billion global market.
The stocks, particularly the eastern stock in the Mediterranean, remains critically low and there is a very real risk that we will soon witness the extinction of this endangered species.
The Conference of the Parties to CITES should therefore agree to place bluefin tuna in Appendix I of the Convention, and the Member States and the Commission must do more to combat illegal fishing and to enforce agreed restrictions and quotas. (ES) Mr President, with regard to the possible prohibition of bluefin tuna fishing in the Mediterranean, I am very concerned that legal fishing will end up being pushed out by illegal fishing, and that the innocent will end up paying for the sins of the guilty.
Since 2006, in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean, fishing of bluefin tuna has been reduced by 30 000 tonnes to 13 500 tonnes.
Clearly we support Mrs Fraga Estevéz's amendment and all that it entails as far as Appendix II is concerned. (PT) In November last year, the ICCAT adopted strong measures to restrict catches of Atlantic bluefin tuna: a reduction in catches from 22 000 to 13 500 tonnes in 2010 and a restriction on purse seining between 15 May and 15 June.
It therefore makes no sense to bring forward new restrictions which will be economically and socially punitive for the sector, especially in the period of serious crisis that it is experiencing, such as those which are equivalent to the inclusion of Atlantic bluefin tuna in Appendix I.
The first concerns the independent scientific opinion that is due to be published in October 2010 and approved by the CITES meeting in September 2011.
Thirdly, I believe that, since we are deciding to include this listing in Appendix I, financial support from the European Union for the fishermen and ship-owners affected by the decisions is essential.
It is under these conditions and these conditions only that I can agree to the listing of bluefin tuna in Appendix I of the CITES.
I assume that the new Commission sees this in just the same way and considers the importance of biodiversity just as seriously.
Precisely because of the involvement of the European Commission in biodiversity, it surprises me that it is the Commission that is doing everything to save species and to push back the loss of biodiversity on the one hand, while the same Commission does not - or does not yet - have the courage to simply propose adding an endangered species such as the bluefin tuna to CITES Appendix I.
However, in order to reach a compromise, we could also place it in Appendix II of the CITES Convention.
So I think that is a key element in this, and I would like to hear what the Commission and the Council have to say about it. (ES) Mr President, today we have heard illegal fishing being confused with mafias, and I also want to speak out in favour of a sector that has demonstrated on many occasions that it is responsible.
This cannot, however, be a reason for including bluefin tuna in Appendix I.
In 2009, it was 22 000 tonnes and in 2006, it was 32 000 tonnes.
We should therefore only support its inclusion in the event that these measures are not effective. (DE) Mr President, as a European from the Alpine region, allow me to move from the water back to the land.
Also, in the light of the efforts that have been made in recent years towards reducing the level of fishing by specialist tuna fishing companies, in my view, we need to continue in this direction, keeping tuna in Appendix II and avoiding rushing ahead, which would be extremely dangerous for some territories and for companies in the sector.
For example, people have talked about tigers and about elephants - Mrs Bearder - about polar bears - Mrs Liotard - but the vast majority of the speeches have referred to the case of bluefin tuna.
To conclude, I would like to reiterate the thanks of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to you for your speeches and contributions during this decisive phase for shaping the European Union's position for the next CITES conference, and I will be delighted to pass on the content of your speeches to the Council along with your great interest in the issues that are going to be discussed in Doha.
It has been felt that it is more appropriate that, instead of the outgoing Commission, the new Commission takes a clear position on this issue because the new Commission will be in charge of defending or promoting the EU position at the conference.
There is one specific issue concerning the proposal to include bluefin tuna in Appendix II and I think it is important to note that there are very specific provisions in CITES which would apply in the case of an Appendix II.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Written statements (Rule 149) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are holding today on the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES in March is particularly important for the rational use of wild flora and fauna.
I am referring, in particular, to the proposal to include Mediterranean red coral in CITES Appendix II.
For these reasons, we are against the inclusion of this species family in CITES Appendix II.
Europe has always been attentive to problems associated with the overexploitation of wild species and illegal trade in fauna and flora.
Two points are particularly sensitive: the proposal to include the species Corallium spp.
As for tuna, there are countries such as France and Italy that are most concerned with bluefin tuna fishing and thus with protecting the species so it can be exploited sustainably.
