Preparation for the European Council meeting (4 February 2011) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation for the European Council meeting of 4 February 2011.
The first to speak will be Mrs Győri, President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Council.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I am very happy to be able to speak to you before the next meeting of the European Council, even though the role of the presidency-in-office is defined by the Treaty of Lisbon in such a way that the preparation of meetings of the European Council is primarily the responsibility of the permanent President.
Furthermore, we are naturally monitoring the implementation of the European Council's conclusions, both in the General Affairs Council and in other Council configurations.
While determining the Europe 2020 strategy, the European Council decided in March 2010 to hold a thematic debate on the issue of energy and innovation.
We must not allow any country or region of the EU to remain isolated.
The second major topic in the field of energy is energy efficiency and renewable energy.
In 2011 the Council will examine the proposal that will be submitted by the Commission concerning the new energy efficiency plan.
The proposal will take account of what has been achieved so far regarding the EU energy efficiency targets set until 2013, and will also envision additional measures.
EU and Member State activities related to key producer, transit and consumer countries must be coordinated more systematically.
This of course applies to Russia, but also to all partners and neighbours of the EU.
We must do everything in our power to protect the common currency, the euro, and calm the markets.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, this European Council takes place at a very important moment for our neighbourhood, namely Egypt, Tunisia and Belarus.
While respecting the different specific situations in these countries, I expect this European Council to state in very clear terms that the principles of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights and pluralist democracy must be enacted and respected.
This Friday, the European Council will discuss two areas which are also very important for the future of Europe and its economy: energy and innovation.
And let us not forget that energy and innovation are also two fields where the Community approach and European dimension can offer a lot of value added.
So this week's European Council should identify clear, concrete deliverables.
I want the European Council to endorse these priorities and, in particular, make a clear commitment to completing our internal energy market by 2014.
We must also ensure that, when it comes to energy, no Member State is isolated from the rest of Europe.
I want Member States to agree on a 2015 deadline to put an end to energy islands in Europe.
The Commission will adopt in the coming weeks an energy efficiency plan proposing specific measures to boost energy efficiency; for instance, that by 1 January 2012 all Member States should include energy efficiency standards in public procurement.
The Commission will then review the progress achieved with these measures by 2013 and will consider further measures, including proposing legally binding targets if necessary.
Underlining the importance of the external dimension of the European Union energy policy should be a key message from the European Council, so I am looking forward to a very important discussion on energy at this European Council and - I am happy to say this - here in the European Parliament.
I know this Parliament is very supportive of a strong European policy on energy and the President of Parliament has been a champion of a stronger commitment by Europe in terms of energy policy.
Fiscal consideration and public support for innovation are not irreconcilable policies.
And as well as maintaining spending, we need to spend better.
With the budget review we have launched a debate on how to simplify the way European Union money is spent, and to work towards a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding.
Of course, this issue should be put in the context of the comprehensive response.
The discussions in the European Council of Friday next will most likely cover the need for reinforced coordination of economic policies in the European Union and the euro area.
Establishing a system of reinforced economic governance for the EU, and in particular the euro area outside the Union framework, raises important, and politically very sensitive, questions.
I really believe this matter is extremely important because we can, in fact, make great progress in matters of economic governance.
The Commission will be particularly attentive to these issues.
Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is concerned, the solution to our problems lies in having more Europe, not less.
The solution does not lie in more so-called national victories, but in more common victories and more coordinated responses.
The solution does not lie in a lax attitude towards applying our common rules, but in greater discipline.
The solution, ladies and gentlemen, does not lie in greater divergences between our budgets, our labour laws and our taxation rates, but in greater convergence.
As far as the PPE Group is concerned, there is but one lesson to be learnt from this crisis, which is that, without a common vision and without shared resources, our countries will sink into sluggish growth and plunge into social crisis.
European governance is the sine qua non of the success of our common project.
The solution to our problems, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is to have more Europe, not less.
Having more Europe also means encouraging our States to meet the challenge of increasing their energy efficiency by 20% between now and 2020.
The Commission estimates that it will cost EUR 1 billion to reach the required infrastructure level.
Europe needs secure, clean energy just as much as it needs a research and development policy and a policy for promoting industrial innovation.
Here too, the solution lies in having more Europe and paying more attention to small and medium-sized enterprises.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament held a hearing yesterday, during the course of which we prepared for the energy summit at the weekend.
That is a basic condition for maintaining the balance of the European institutions. (Applause) We are in a situation where Europe is faced with internal challenges and also challenges in terms of international policy.
These are our partners.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, in times of crisis two strategies are necessary: stop the imminent threat, and take advantage of the opportunities and move forward.
The world outside of Europe is facing the energy challenge head on.
In last week's State of the Union Address, President Barack Obama emphasised energy efficiency and the possibilities offered by green technology. (The President briefly intervened on a procedural matter) President Obama even compared these new technologies to the space race and called it our generation's Sputnik moment.
China is investing heavily in research and new technologies.
Today China has more than 400 photovoltaic companies.
We even have Member States which are already planning for a 30% reduction in emissions, like Germany, but the Council does not dare to move; neither does the Commission, by the way.
Nor do you see that the Member States are fulfilling the third energy market package and there is even a debate on funding for research and innovation in the long-term budget.
That is where we are in Europe, and the Council shows no leadership at all when it comes to energy, climate, competitiveness and jobs.
I was in Hungary quite often between 2002 and 2010.
The situation is coming to a head.
As a result of this news, I can only appeal to the European Heads of State or Government not to wait until lunch time on Friday of this week to agree on what the right message for Egypt should be.
Mr Oettinger recently spoke in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy about how we are going to develop our energy relations with Iraq, Georgia and Turkmenistan.
I know we need diversification because we also face a problematic and very difficult situation to the east with Russia and the transit countries of Belarus and Ukraine.
We need more money in the crisis instrument, otherwise we can forget any ideas of providing assistance to Spain and Portugal in the near future.
We are in need of specific investment to tackle energy efficiency in our cities, in particular in the countries being subjected to the most serious speculative attacks and, above all, in the countries with the highest levels of unemployment.
Mr Schulz rightly mentioned that we are all expecting the European Council to make a statement with regard to Egypt and what is happening there and for it to concern itself with this matter.
Mrs Harms, I would also like to make one thing clear about what you said.
Whether or not energy policy suits you or if other people have a different opinion does not make it good or bad.
In my view, this summit provides an enormous opportunity for us finally to move forward on the issue of infrastructure and to ensure that investment in infrastructure and energy is undertaken, because all other issues depend on us managing to do this.
This comes only a few weeks after the Renewable Energy Directive, of which all of us here were very proud, entered into force.
First, let us do what we have already committed ourselves to.
Another reason for doing this was the fact that initiatives at the highest political level in the EU have been very few and far between and extremely weak in this area.
Take action; do something - here and now.
For example, there are around 190 million buildings in the EU that need to be heated.
Invest in renewable energy sources, unless you believe that those we have are infinite, and invest in distribution networks that are modern and efficient for all types of energy.
Just as we do not want a financial market that does not function properly and that is closed and completely unregulated, we do not want an electricity market that operates like the financial market did before the crisis either.
The 20% 2020 energy efficiency target is a very long way off track.
Yesterday, at the invitation of the S&amp;D Group, Jeremy Rifkin was in Brussels and he clearly set out a new economic vision.
With these five, and of course what Fiona has mentioned under the umbrella of efficiency in all sectors, we would, firstly, make our European economy one that is much less dependent geopolitically.
Secondly, we would save EUR 300 billion in transfers outside the European economy and use that to invest in jobs and other investments here.
Finally, something we have achieved: Mr Oettinger has a 26-to-1 chance of defeat in destroying the national support schemes.
That is the number one energy of the future. (PL) Mr President, we are about to take the decision to allocate EUR 1 billion to the expansion of energy infrastructure in the European Union.
The European Union's energy security depends on a broad diversification, which presupposes not only new transmission routes, but also access to new sources of fuels.
Otherwise we will repeat the mistakes made in the TEN-T programme, which has claimed that projects such as Nord Stream are European.
If we repeat the same old mistakes, our EUR 1 billion will only buy us the pretence of a market and competition. - (CS) Mr President, I am expecting the energy summit to produce, above all, a comprehensive, but also intelligible and responsible approach to the interests of our citizens.
An irresponsible political and economic lobby in the Czech Republic has promoted inadequate financial support for solar power plants.
We ought to discuss this with the Council as well. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the European Council is discussing the topics of energy security and innovation simultaneously.
In this regard, there are two things in particular that we must mention: on one hand, that renewable energy sources must be affordable, meaning that the population must not be given additional burdens for using renewable energy.
The European Council, as the highest political authority, would do well to support this project in its dealings with the international community.
This brings me on to the subject of research and innovation.
The implementation of the renewable energy targets requires a network with a greater degree of meshing, intelligence and, above all, interconnectivity in order to manage its variability properly.
However, we are far from achieving the 10% target set in the European Council in Barcelona almost a decade ago.
This last is growing exponentially in some countries with the rise in electricity and fuel prices.
A great tectonic change is taking place before our eyes.
For that reason the key expectation is that the European Council should provide a real change in terms of a genuine internal market for energy and genuine security of supply in a material and physical sense. (DE) Mr President, the first energy summit in the history of the European Union will take place on Friday, because, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Union has direct responsibilities in this sector for the first time.
When I look at the Council conclusions, I have to say that this energy summit is going to be a huge disappointment, because it will not answer any of these major questions.
However, I have the impression that it is going in the wrong direction. (EL) Mr President, the forthcoming meeting of the European Council will be set against the backdrop of the continuing capitalist crisis and stiffening competition between the monopolies, both within the European Union and between the European Union and other imperialist centres, for energy and innovation.
The Greek Communist Party expresses its solidarity with the people protesting in Egypt.
The basic priority of the summit, which is not formally included in its agenda but which will be discussed, is the EU 2020 strategy.
Priorities in terms of implementing reinforced economic governance will be moving in the same direction. (PT) Mr President, I have no doubt that this Council will be very important, essentially for matters relating to the recovery of Europe's economies, in particular energy and innovation.
In addition to subjects as important as energy and innovation, I call on this Council to debate and draw up a solution to the financial crisis that the European Union is experiencing.
Moreover, if we cannot expect a solution to this problem from Friday's Council, and even if we have to wait until March's Council meeting for it, it is essential for the Heads of State or Government to prepare to make the stability fund more flexible, starting on 4 February, along with preparing the relaunch of the European economic government.
In other words, despite the importance of the issues of energy and innovation, I hope that the issues of the financial crisis and of the political crisis in North Africa will be tackled by this Council. (NL) Mr President, I would ask members to take a look at Mr Van Rompuy's invitation to the next Council meeting.
However, the Council is engaging in the wrong debate.
Energy supply and energy security are important, of course they are, but primarily only within the framework of a more global objective, and in particular within the framework of an energy system which will be completely independent and completely sustainable in the long term.
Incidentally, Mr Barroso has said many good things about that and I hope with all my heart that the Commissioner in charge will be able to deliver the goods.
It is the responsibility of the European Union to provide the funding and the Council ought to make decisions next Friday. (RO) Mr President, the energy summit may put the European Union back on track for economic growth.
Interconnection between national networks is the first step towards a single internal energy market.
Steps have been taken in this direction, but the Union needs to implement the action plan in this area in the years ahead.
With regard to the situation in North Africa, we must ensure that the action proposals put forward by the Council will guarantee a peaceful transition in this region and that the new organisations will assume power democratically. (PT) Mr President, energy and innovation are very important issues, which are fundamental to the Europe 2020 strategy, and can contribute to smart, sustainable growth, and to creating more and better jobs.
In fact, energy and innovation are areas in which my country, Portugal, has been making large-scale investments with good results.
In other words, we are facing global problems requiring a global response.
That is also what the public expects from the upcoming European Council. (NL) Mr President, special times call for special policies and, certainly, now that we are trying to haul ourselves out of the crisis, it is a good thing that space has been found on the Council's agenda for energy and innovation, specifically.
They are key factors for European competitiveness and also for employment in the near future.
The field of cross-border infrastructure and interconnections, in particular, is where we are very much lagging behind.
At precisely the time when we are almost totally failing to do this, a lot more emphasis needs to be placed on public investment and innovation.
I wish you success. (RO) Mr President, at the European summit on energy taking place on 4 February, the European Union needs to reach agreement at the highest political level on priority measures aimed at establishing the internal energy market and developing the energy infrastructure, as well as on measures for reducing energy consumption, boosting energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy sources.
We need at least a 10-year action plan which will provide both solidarity among Member States in the event of any serious energy supply disruptions and a boost to energy security through diversification of energy supply routes and sources.
The common energy market must operate to serve ordinary citizens, for whom the price of energy needs to remain affordable, and help make European industry eco-efficient both by providing jobs in the European Union and developing the industrial sector. (SL) Mr President, in the field of energy, we have set ourselves objectives which cover all three pillars of the common energy policy: competitiveness, sustainability and the security of supply.
In order to achieve these objectives, we have already adopted two extensive packages: the first being the climate and energy package and the second being the liberalisation package.
In the field of energy, we also need improved cross-border coordination and strategic planning for new infrastructure.
I also appeal to the Council to safeguard sustainable local production of electricity by creating equal conditions for competition, both for EU and non-EU producers.
It is also time that the problem of carbon leakages in the electricity sector was addressed at EU level.
But we also need to secure at a European level common grids and systems for the distribution of gas and electricity.
However, we must also say 'yes' to the Research, Innovation and Education Area, in other words to the greater Europeanisation of education and research policy.
As a rule, interconnections are absent in those Member States where the natural gas sector is dominated by an incumbent operator.
However, it is absurd that an EU Member State is being threatened, or even discriminated against, for implementing the EU legislation while the EU itself seems to stand aside.
I should mention, too, that the implementation of the EU Gas Directive in Lithuania is closely followed by other Member States where conditions are similar.
However, one issue on which I think we can all agree is that we must have common energy networks in Europe, to put to an end the situation where some Member States are completely cut off from the others whether on the electricity market or in the gas sector.
Thank you for your attention. (HU) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Hungarian EU Presidency that this extremely important topic is finally being discussed at the highest level in the Council.
The Hungarian-born Nobel laureate György Oláh has discovered a methanol economy.
There is of course a distinction between invention and innovation, and between these two and patent applications.
But whatever it is, we must make sure that we do not discard it out of ignorance. (HU) Mr President, the energy summit on 4 February could be a real breakthrough, where words and deeds can finally meet.
Tabled before the Council is the issue of the strategy and, at the same time, that of the infrastructure required for its implementation.
I would like to state that I welcome the correspondence between the European Commission and the Hungarian Government on the matter of the Hungarian media law.
This should reassure everyone who has a stake in the resolution of the issue.
I hold the belief that it is this that is in the interest of the EU, and not that which was unfortunately demonstrated today in a speech in this House. (LT) The coming decade will be crucial for the entire European Union, because the Member States will have to take serious decisions: to replace existing resources and infrastructure and meet increasing demand for energy, which will be essential for European economic development in the future.
This would truly enable all 27 European Union Member States to coordinate their actions and focus their efforts on making our economic environment greater and more competitive, on increasing jobs and reducing social exclusion.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, this debate clearly confirms that both energy and innovation are absolutely crucial for the future of Europe and the future of the European economy.
Clearly we would all agree that, if we take the right steps now, not only can we make an important contribution to economic recovery in the short term, but we can also make our European economy much more competitive in the long term.
We would like to have a real internal market in the field of energy by 2014.
To give just one figure: if we do this right, consumers can save EUR 13 billion by having the possibility of getting electricity from a cheaper provider.
I listened to this and I must say I felt that it was very much inspired by what we do here in Europe - what we suggested in the EU 2020 strategy.
These are precisely the goals we have set for ourselves for the next 10 years.
Therefore we, as a Commission, will monitor development in this field very closely and we will have a review of the targets in 2013.
Concerning the comments on the innovation economy, here I think it is very clear that we have to raise the level of innovation priorities and innovation policies.
We can see that, as regards closing our innovation gap with the USA and Japan, we are not doing as well as we would have expected to.
I think we will all have a good opportunity in the context of the next multiannual financial framework discussion to improve the way in which we execute and implement European programmes, because we will also be discussing financial regulations.
We have to look very carefully for a balance between appropriate control and the necessary flexibility in programme execution, so that we do not create additional red tape in relation to programmes which are especially important for the promotion of innovation policies in Europe.
The February European Council meeting will be a meeting of transition and a search for a comprehensive approach to the current economic challenges in Europe, whether in relation to the eurozone or in the field of improved economic governance for the whole European Union.
I can assure you that the Commission is relentless in proposing measures to stabilise the situation in the financial market and in seeking long-term solutions.
I am sure that the leaders will discuss this issue too in Friday's European Council meeting.
The situation in Egypt and Tunisia was discussed this morning in the College of Commissioners.
There was clear support for the legitimate aspirations of the people of Egypt and clear confirmation that the Commission stands ready to step up its assistance to Egypt and its people in this transition.
The discussion on the situation in Tunisia and Egypt will follow and I am sure that my colleague Cathy Ashton will be able to address it in more precise terms.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I should like to thank the speakers for all the comments and interventions.
We all believe that we have to put more things on the table concerning innovation; the Innovation Union is a great investment in the future.
I think Mr Schulz read a different letter from the letter we sent to the Commission.
Experts will get down to business and it is our job to find a solution to this kind of problem.
The proposal is to integrate and 'complete' the single market for electricity and gas.
In the midst of this, and as the easiest means of making this route viable, issues are being raised (demagogically) relating to the security of energy supply: these are certainly important, and must be considered and resolved, but within a different framework.
Innovation is already seen, above all, merely as a means of giving value to ideas within the market and not as it should be: as a necessary means of helping respond to many of the problems and challenges facing humanity.
The areas of energy and innovation are fundamental to growth and employment.
I hope that Friday's European Council will be an important milestone in this respect.
We need to stay at the forefront of technology by investing more in research and innovation, building the necessary infrastructure and training more engineers, scientists and technicians.
in writing. - (PL) The energy summit taking place this week will serve to highlight the importance of energy solidarity.
Unfortunately, some of the leaders of our countries do not understand this.
We cannot afford a two-speed Europe in the field of energy.
Development of the energy infrastructure plays a key role in ensuring the internal energy market's operation.
in writing. - (PL) I believe that at its forthcoming summit on 4 February, the European Energy Council should aim to ensure that all energy sources, both traditional and non-traditional, are treated equally.
Use of these sources, with appropriate EU support, will be a decisive factor not only for the security of energy supplies, but also for the EU's competitiveness and employment levels.
I hope that the European Council's conclusions will be an accurate reflection of the debates that have taken place to date on the 2050 objectives, and that they will not be published before the debate on these objectives, which is due to take place in March 2011.
There are currently 27 energy markets operating in the EU.
The lack of interconnection between them is resulting in failure to achieve the EU's objectives for economic competitiveness and energy security.
The lack of a single integrated market means that EU energy policy is unable to provide effective solutions to the problems linked to the fall in Europe's oil and gas reserves, the rise in crude oil and natural gas prices, the increase in global demand for energy and global warming.
I welcome the announcement from Commissioner Oettinger regarding the ambitious deadline proposed by the European Commission, stating that 2015 will be the deadline for completing the internal energy market.
I also welcome the intention to interconnect the 27 Member States' gas and electricity networks and create a suitable infrastructure for the EU to achieve its objectives.
I hope that the Commission's commitment will be understood by European leaders as a call to put Member States' real long-term interests at the forefront.
It will only be possible to initiate the creation and strengthening of the single energy market and common policy in this area by making a firm decision as soon as possible.
These are the only factors which can safeguard everyone's energy security in the medium and long term.
Transparency and traceability in the work are necessary prerequisites.
During the forthcoming European Council summit, planned for 4 February, the Heads of State or Government will discuss two topics; the Community's energy policy and research and development.
The problem of the European Union's energy policy was raised during the debate on preparations for the European Council summit to be held on 4 February 2011.
Energy security is a priority area, and the establishment of a common energy market should be a common European objective towards which we must strive using integrated measures.
These are ideal examples of measures that fit in with the ideas behind the Europe 2020 strategy, which prioritises innovation and the development of scientific research, as well as green job creation.
Europe should integrate its forces in this area too.
