I believe that a remarkable piece of work has been achieved, and that this has led to an historic agreement that represents the first framework agreement following the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, and the first framework agreement with a direct, explicit basis in the treaties, but specifically on Article 295 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Actually, I would like to say that this agreement creates a highly transparent, greatly dynamic and extremely close association between Parliament and the Commission, and that it essentially represents a compromise: a balance between the respective visions of the two institutions on the new role that falls to each of them following the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that the work carried out by our team was, in fact, very positive, as in this framework agreement, it has managed to give expression to the new competences and the strengthening of powers arising from the Treaty of Lisbon.
In view of this, I would like to say, with deep respect for the Treaty of Lisbon and its new balance of powers, and also with deep respect for the idea of the separation of powers, that here we have a clarifying agreement that will make the Treaty of Lisbon current, active and applicable.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, it is a great pleasure for me to join your debate on the revised framework agreement on relations between our two institutions.
On this occasion, I would like to express my sincere thanks and gratitude to Mr Lehne and the whole working party: Ms Diana Wallis, Ms Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, Ms Rebecca Harms, Mr Hannes Swoboda and, of course, our rapporteur, Mr Paulo Rangel.
This revised framework agreement builds on the existing framework agreement from 2005 which, as we have seen, has been a very successful instrument for governing relations between our institutions.
I believe that we should all be very satisfied with the outcome.
On 7 September, President Barroso held his State of the Union address in Parliament, and I attended the Conference of Presidents with information on progress in preparing the Commission's work programme.
On 7 October, the College and the Conference of Committee Chairs met in the Berlaymont.
As you all know, the negotiations for the revised framework agreement were long and required a major effort by both institutions in order to arrive at a text that caters for both our institutions' interests and concerns.
We also knew that for a number of aspects in our relations - for example the Union's programming, introduced by the Lisbon Treaty - we would have to involve the Council too.
In this spirit, we will continue to put into practice the special partnership between our two institutions and, at the same time, loyally cooperate with all the institutions.
Our good friend, Francisco Lucas Pires, who witnessed this process, said that it changed from a deliberative parliament to a legislative parliament.
Allow me to say, Mr Šefčovič, that you took the bull by the horns - a very bullfighting-related expression in my country - when you said that the interpretation of Articles 6 and 7 of the resolution is Parliament's interpretation in relation to international agreements and international conferences.
I believe that this is a good omen: as they would say in Casablanca, 'the beginning of a beautiful friendship'.
In relation to your interpretation of paragraphs 7 and 8, I would like to say that I understand it.
I understand it because it is true that this House does not strictly need to be a party to the negotiations, but you also need to understand that we as Parliament have expressed a wish, an initial position and a future position regarding how this House should relate to international negotiations.
I think that is quite correct because if the Council - which I see is not yet here this evening - had been seriously interested in playing a part in becoming a party to this framework agreement, it could have done so.
The fact that the need for parliamentary control is being emphasised, as well as the need for better mutual cooperation, is also clearly progress.
However, in one area - the one that has been the most important both today and in the previous debate - there is reason to express disappointment.
The aforementioned provisions are not the only ones; the revised framework agreement contains many more similar provisions and I firmly believe that they will all lead towards more effective and closer cooperation between both institutions, and that they will represent a coherent implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I also call on my fellow Members - since we suffer from a kind of Stockholm syndrome where the Commission and the Council are concerned - to use all our rights, because they are the rights of our fellow citizens. (IT) Madam President, the revision of the agreement between Parliament and the Commission establishes the basis for improved collaboration between the two institutions.
I appreciate the fact that the new cooperation agreement with the European Commission strengthens the importance of Parliament beyond what was prescribed in the Treaty of Lisbon.
However, the European Union is constituted on the basis of agreement by nation states which passed on to us - the European Parliament as well as the European Union - part of their competences.
This is what I would like to ask for, Commissioner. (DE) Madam President, in the EU, Parliament and the Council act as legislators and have a democratic mandate, directly in the case of the European Parliament and at least indirectly in the case of the Council.
The new instrument of the citizens' initiative should involve Parliament, as the body representing the citizens, in the legislative process at the earliest possible juncture.
The EU's foreign policy must not be allowed to be the sole responsibility of a bureaucratic European External Action Service that is relatively remote from citizens. (RO) I believe that the new agreement will significantly improve relations between Parliament and the European Commission between 2010 and 2015.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, first I would like to thank all the speakers, especially those who voiced support for the framework agreement, because I think it is really a very important manual on how we could cooperate and work together better in the future.
I would like once again to underline my gratitude to the working party and the European Parliament team because we spent a lot of time together.
In this sense, I am really looking forward to collaborating with you on the basis of this revised framework agreement and I hope and expect that you will support this agreement on Wednesday.
I believe and I hope that this positive spirit will also prevail in the overall relations between all the institutions of the European Union, because this is what the citizens expect from us and this is what we should deliver.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 20 October.
Let us hope that despite the initial friction between us and the Commission over the interpretation of the provisions which had been negotiated, the agreement will contribute to a more efficient and effective cooperation between our institutions.
