Arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU with a view to the future reform of the CFP (debate) The next item is the report by Alain Cadec, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the EU with a view to the future reform of the CFP.
With this in mind, we can only welcome the fact that the Commissioner for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, Mrs Damanaki, who is our regular contact, and the Commissioner for Trade, Mr De Gucht, are reunited on the Commission's bench.
Thirdly, we call for the responsibility for conducting trade talks on fishery and aquaculture products to be transferred from the Trade Commissioner to the Commissioner for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries.
We have a fisheries sector that is neither ecologically sustainable nor economically performing well.
Two thirds of the fish consumed in Europe, as we have already mentioned, are already imported in order to ensure a steady supply of raw material to our processing industry and fair prices to consumers.
So, while we are in the middle of a serious reform of our common fisheries policy, EU trade policy should continue to take into account the complex nature of the EU's fishing sector and its economic and social realities.
The Commission is fully committed to achieving the objectives of the strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture, as we have already discussed in the EP report.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission welcomes the European Parliament's decision to prepare an own-initiative report on the import regime for fish and fishery products.
The Commission is aware of the particular nature of the fisheries sector and its importance, especially for coastal communities.
The Commission wants to reassure the EP that the specific needs of the fisheries sector are taken into consideration in the course of trade negotiations.
Too often people would have us believe that the ultimate objective of a European common fisheries policy is to adapt the fisheries sector to globalised trade in fishery products, the extremely harsh effects of which we can see today, whether it be socially, economically or, of course, environmentally.
Since we are bringing this into international negotiations, our European policy must be exemplary and we must move in the direction of having more and better paid fishermen who do not overexploit fish stocks, either in our territorial waters or in those in which we buy fishing rights.
I had prepared my speech on the need, for example, to focus on ensuring that imported products comply with the same health rules and the same requirements, but I see that others have spoken about this, so it would be rather pointless and a waste of time for us to go over it again.
All hypocrisy aside, I believe that it is important to emphasise this because, as has been said, the fisheries sector has a fundamental role to play if we want to ensure that our fishermen do not keep reducing their catch capacity because we have forced them to do so for the sake of our seas.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries and aquaculture products make up an important part of the European diet, as we all know, and this means that we need to import more than 60% of these products to meet our needs, as Commissioner Damanaki has rightly stated.
For these reasons my group will obviously vote in favour of the report.
The producers of these products are not subject to the demanding regimes of EU operators in areas such as conservation and in areas such as hygiene standards.
There is a huge reliance on imported goods, as has been pointed out by both Commissioners, but when I look at my own country importing 46 000 tonnes per annum costing EUR 181 million, there appears to be a lack of awareness among consumers of imported fish versus wild fish.
More than 60% of all fish consumed in Europe today is imported.
On 24 July 2008, in response to the economic crisis facing Europe's fishing fleet, the EU Fisheries Council approved temporary and specific measures aimed at promoting and restructuring the fleet.
I would like to ask all colleagues to please keep quiet so that we can work for 10 more minutes and finish this important report and important work. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Damanaki, European fisheries policy is facing enormous challenges.
With a volume of 12 million tonnes and a value of EUR 55 billion, the EU fisheries market is the largest in the world.
This market is growing rapidly and is increasingly dependent on imports from third countries.
That is why I favour a European label, in accordance with our standards, both environmental and social. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, Europe is currently the biggest European market for fishery and aquaculture products, importing approximately 60% of fish consumed.
In this context, it is important to safeguard two fundamental aspects: firstly, creating the conditions necessary to ensure that EU consumers have access to good quality imported fishery and aquaculture products; and secondly, establishing a framework of fair competition, both for imported products and for those caught and produced by the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in Europe.
We need a viable fisheries sector and we have some obligations to the WTO and other international bodies.
Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, following my little outburst I have no doubt that in a few minutes you will largely vote in favour of this report, and since I have the opportunity, I must thank our colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries, in particular the Chair Mrs Fraga Estévez, who agreed to take up this matter and entrust me with this report.
I am thinking of Zoltan Somoguy and Miriam Garcia Ferrer from DG Trade and Pierre Amilhat, Christian Rambeau and Juan Ranco from DG Mare, and I would like to thank you, Mrs Damanaki, for being here, and you too, Mr De Gucht, even if I am not entirely satisfied with your answers - which are not really answers since they preceded my speech.
In any case, I would also like to thank Mauro Belardinelli from our group, Ollivier Gimenez, my assistants, Emilie Herrbach and Vincent Guerre, and to give a special mention to Philippe Musquar, who helped me greatly with this report and assisted me in its conception.
