GBP 7 billion is more than the value of all the domestic cuts we have made in social security put together - and all for a policy which is now visibly failing.
Ireland and Greece are now having to borrow more money to send to Portugal, while at the same time Ireland and Portugal are having to borrow more money to send to Greece.
The accounts have not been signed off for 15 years, and all the time our constituents have been asking us why we are not spending their money better.
No talking goes on in it, there is no opportunity to debate in it, even when the fundamental rights of one of its Members are at stake.
We spend our time doing work that would be far better done by a technical agency responsible for harmonising standards or rules and, other than that, we play at being the United Nations.
That is because I understood that this reform was based on the notion that all Members of the European Parliament would receive the same salary, and this should also be taken into account by the nation states in their taxation practices. (DA) Madam President, we were not able to vote on the final resolution on Pakistan in this House today, but I would very much like to point out that I think it is absolutely reasonable and timely for us to help Pakistan through the very difficult situation that the country is facing.
The EU has provided EUR 415 million in emergency aid to Pakistan, and that is a good thing.
It is also positive that we are now taking the initiative to remove duties on some important export products in these areas, namely textiles and leather.
However, I must say that, at the same time, I find it regrettable and somewhat hypocritical that we are also making indeterminate promises and saying that, if the initiatives that we are taking in respect of Pakistan start to work, we will discontinue them.
I think Parliament should revise its view of how this matter should be dealt with.
This is the result of the European Union's wretched trade policy.
I oppose the disgraceful attempt and threat by the government to no longer allow trade unions to organise on a national level. (IT) Madam President, the Treaty of Lisbon lists foreign direct investment among the matters pertaining to common commercial policy.
Indeed, according to Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Union has exclusive competence in this matter.
Following the entry in force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Member States have maintained a significant number of agreements with third countries on foreign direct investment.
The draft certainly moves along these lines and I have therefore voted in its favour. (IT) Madam President, I voted in favour of this report because I am absolutely convinced that we need to control European investments abroad at a time of great crisis and economic uncertainty.
In light of what I have said, I reiterate my hope that the Commission will set out the appropriate strategies in short order. (DA) Madam President, we have voted today on the provision of EUR 46 million in macro-financial assistance to Georgia.
Obviously, these funds will not be provided without imposing the conditions of responsible economic management and transparency.
It is therefore in the European Union's interests to support a Western-oriented government that is willing to undertake reforms, which is what we have done with the vote today. (PL) Madam President, Georgia is a strategically important country, in particular for the countries situated in the eastern part of the European Union.
The recent Russo-Georgian conflict of August 2008 demonstrated how important it is to keep this country within the sphere of European policy.
I therefore agree entirely with the European Commission's proposal regarding the earmarking of additional funds for grants and loans in order to improve Georgia's financial situation.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) I am voting for this proposal, since I agree with the discharge procedures, as they propose suitable appropriations for each heading.
I endorse the suggestion of the Court of Auditors that procurement procedures should be better prepared and coordinated by the Court of Justice.
The Court of Justice experienced difficulties as regards recruitment of qualified conference interpreters, and the limitations as well as the need to use a range of interpretation techniques in order to be able to qualitatively and quantitatively satisfy all requests for interpretation.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the exhaustive analysis carried out in this report by the Court of Auditors, and I call for the continued exchange of best practices between the institutions, as well as effective interinstitutional cooperation regarding development and the implementation of an integrated management system.
I therefore support and welcome the rapporteur's conclusions.
I voted in favour because controls carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control showed that all transactions were carried out in a wholly legal and regular manner.
I welcome the increase in the number of cases completed by the Court of Justice (377 judgments and 165 orders compared to 333 and 161 respectively in 2008), take note of the number of preliminary ruling cases being the highest ever (302) and welcome the decrease in the number of cases pending at the end of 2009 (741 cases compared to 768 cases at the end of 2008).
I also welcome the fact that the Civil Service Tribunal closed more cases than ever before (155 cases), and that the average duration of a procedure was 15.1 months compared to 17 months in 2008.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the Court of Auditors pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I voted for this decision, which grants the Registrar of the Court of Justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Justice budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament notes that, in the course of preparation of the Annual Report concerning the financial year 2009, the Court of Auditors performed an in-depth assessment of supervisory and control systems in the Court of Justice, the European Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor, which included the examination of an additional sample of transactions involving payments relating to human resources and to other administrative expenditure.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the decision to grant the European Ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
In the course of preparation of the Annual Report concerning the financial year 2009, the Court of Auditors performed an in-depth assessment of supervisory and control systems in the Court of Justice, the Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor which included the examination of an additional sample of transactions involving payments relating to human resources and to other administrative expenditure.
The Ombudsman should report on progress in this area in his annual activity report.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of authorising discharge of the 2009 budget of the European Ombudsman since, mindful of the report on its activities and the observations I was able to make about it, I believe that accounting procedures have been respected, that the overall management can be considered good and that in the coming years we will be able to improve those aspects which are now considered controversial.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the conclusions of the audit in the Annual Report of the Court of Auditors.
In today's vote, I gave my backing to the request for discharge regarding the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2009, Section VIII - European Ombudsman.
I also applaud the Ombudsman's decision to publish his annual declaration of interests, including on the Ombudsman's own website, and I should like to join the Court of Auditors in praising the quality of the annual activity report submitted by the Ombudsman.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the Court of Auditors pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I voted for this decision, which grants the European Ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the European Ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) With today's resolution Parliament grants discharge to the European Ombudsman for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
I would like to stress that Parliament welcomes the fact that in 2009 the Ombudsman was able to help with almost 77% of the complaints and that he dealt with 70% of the investigations in less than one year.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the decision to grant the European Data Protection Supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors found that under certain circumstances the EDPS may run the risk of making incorrect payments to staff.
I endorse the suggestion of the Court of Auditors that EDPS staff should be requested to submit at appropriate intervals documents proving their personal situation, and that the EDPS should improve its system for the timely monitoring and control of those documents.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of granting the European Data Protection Supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009 since, despite the fact that some data was controversial and less transparent than required, the EDPS has shown willingness to commit itself to undertaking further ex-post verification processes from 2011 onwards.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the conclusions of the audit by the Court of Auditors, whose annual report notes that the audit did not give rise to any significant observations.
Finally, I welcome the rapporteur's conclusion on the request made to the European Data Protection Supervisor to include a chapter in its next annual activity report - financial year 2010 - including detailed information on the follow-up during the year to Parliament's discharge decisions.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) but I note the Court of Auditors findings that the EDPS had not put in place a system of ex-post verification, where appropriate, as required by the Financial Regulation, and that the standards of internal control adopted by the EDPS did not provide for exceptions to standard financial procedures to be duly recorded in a central register.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the Court of Auditors pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I voted for this decision, which grants the European Data Protection Supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the European Data Protection Supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) With today's resolution, Parliament grants discharge to the European Data Protection Supervisor for the execution of its budget for the financial year 2009.
I would underline that Parliament welcomes the fact that in the course of preparation of the Annual Report concerning the financial year 2009, the Court of Auditors performed an in-depth assessment of supervisory and control systems in the Court of Justice.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
The agencies should strengthen their internal controls to make sure that contracts and procurement procedures are correctly applied.
The Commission should provide Parliament with a detailed overview of the criteria applied in order to ensure the independence of recruited staff.
The multiannual work programme is important for enabling an agency to better organise its activities, provide an enhanced risk-assessment of its activities, and make effective organisational arrangements to implement its strategy.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of authorising discharge of the 2009 budget for the performance, financial management and control of EU agencies since I find the report to be objective, serious and independent.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur on the need to improve the transparency of estimates and responsibility of projects; to strengthen their procurement authorisation at the financing decision and work-programme level; to correct failings in the recruitment of personnel, and increase its objectivity and transparency; and to implement and comply with the Financial Regulation to which they are subject.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, and I call on all the agencies to include the conclusions that have been adopted.
Every year, the European Parliament adopts a report on the European agencies to accompany the debates on budgetary discharge.
It is not necessary to uncover fraud, as at the European Economic and Social Committee, to reach a verdict of mismanagement.
The nagging question of whether these agencies are effective and useful unfortunately remains unanswered, year after year.
The few agencies that analyse their performance do so in accordance with the procedures and processes that are imposed on them and not in relation to concrete results.
in writing. - I support the report of Georgios Stavrakakis on the performance, financial management and control of EU agencies because mainly it stresses the need to encourage the agencies to develop, and then regularly update, a comprehensive situation outlining their financial circuits and the responsibilities of the financial and operational actors.
Nevertheless, it is true that even with respect to the current financial year, the Court of Auditors has noted, in more than one agency, a high level of carryovers and cancellations of operational appropriations and a high number of transfers.
Some agencies have also shown a number of weaknesses in procurement procedures.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report '2009 discharge: performance, financial management and control of EU agencies' in order to acknowledge that the functioning of all EU agencies needs to be further improved.
To enhance greater efficiency in the functioning and expenditure of the EU agencies, genuine consideration must be given to the possibility of merging Governing Boards for agencies working in related fields.
Furthermore, the Commission should deliver an assessment of the feasibility of merging EU agencies with overlapping activities.
in writing. - I voted for this Report but am concerned by the Court of Auditors' findings that several agencies had deficiencies in procurement procedures.
I call on the agencies to strengthen their internal controls to make sure that contracts and procurement procedures are correctly applied.
I voted in favour of the report on the 2009 discharge: performance, financial management and control of EU agencies.
in writing. - I note that the Court of Auditors has once again drawn attention to a large volume of carryovers and cancellations of operational appropriations by several agencies in the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and agree that the European Parliament should postpone its decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of budget of the European Police College for the financial year 2009.
The College demonstrates a persistent lack of compliance with the Financial Regulation with regard to public procurement rules.
In the interest of fostering transparency, the College should provide direct access to its budget, which should include a list of its contract and procurement decisions, and should be published on the College's website.
I have voted against granting discharge for 2009 for the European Police College, as proposed by the rapporteur, because not even I am convinced by the irregular procedures adopted in the period under review.
I consider that more details are required to provide a deeper and more detailed explanation showing the regularity of the accounts.
For the second year in a row, we have been unable to grant discharge to the European Police College (CEPOL) for the financial year 2009.
The multiannual action plan that was devised following the identification of the agency's management problems lacks clarity, and the monitoring report fails to give us a proper understanding of the measures put in place.
The College admittedly performed better in 2010, following the departure of its former Director, Ulf Göransson, who has been taken to task by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and the Court of Auditors for his irregular, indeed fraudulent, expenditure.
With this vote the European Parliament has decided not to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Police College for the financial year 2009 but to postpone the decision.
I voted in favour of this report in order to acknowledge the structural problems that the College has been facing for many years now.
Moreover, serious and repeated violations of public procurement rules were identified: five procurement procedures - worth a total of EUR 455 111 - failed to comply with the rules.
Transparency also remains a matter of concern, since irregularities continue to affect staff selection.
Therefore, I advocate the merger of the College into Europol as the best way of achieving greater efficiency in expenditure and tackling the College's structural and chronic problems.
I voted in favour of postponing the decision to grant discharge for the financial year 2009: the Court of Auditors again qualified its opinion with regard to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts for the financial year 2009.
The report notes that payment appropriations, equivalent to 43% of the total budget, were carried forward to 2010, which is at odds with the principle of annuality.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Police College (EPC) for the financial year 2009, together with its replies, I voted for this decision, which postpones granting the Director of the EPC discharge in respect of the implementation of the EPC's budget for the financial year 2009.
With today's resolution the European Parliament has postponed the decision granting budgetary discharge to the Director of the European Police College.
In its reports on the annual discharge for 2006 and 2007 the Court of Auditors issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the budget of the European Police College, by reason of the fact that the procurement procedures did not conform to the provisons of the financial regulation.
In particular, Parliament is concerned that the Court of Auditors pointed to serious deficiencies in the administrative and financial rules governing expenses for the organisation of courses and seminars, which represent a large proportion of the College's operational expenses.
in writing. - (DE) I voted for the postponement of the discharge.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and agree with the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Centre should further develop the evaluation of its performance by improving the links between its strategic actions and the actions foreseen in its Work Programme and by reviewing indicators for monitoring its performance in order to comply with SMART criteria.
The Centre should also take more effective action on the constant expenditure growth in its budget.
I have voted in favour of granting budgetary discharge to the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union for 2009 because in this report I have found high precision, great transparency and a notable orientation towards results.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome and agree with the rapporteur's observations, and I congratulate the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union on the work it does.
I also welcome the decision made by the centre to carry out a midterm review of its Strategy 2008-2012, and congratulate it on its excellent performance, with a 41% rise in its translation services in relation to 2008.
Lastly, I would like to congratulate the Centre for submitting to the Court of Auditors a comparison of its operations carried out in the course of 2008 and 2009, allowing the discharge authority to make a better evaluation of the performance of the Centre from one year to the next.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the Translation Centre.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the 2009 financial year.
With today's resolution the European Parliament has granted budgetary discharge for 2009 to the director of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union.
The European Parliament welcomes the fact that the Centre will carry out a mid-term review of its strategy for 2008-2012; however, it invites the Centre to further develop the appraisal of its own performance, by improving the synergies between its strategic activities and the activities foreseen in its work programme and by reviewing the indicators for monitoring its performance in order to comply with SMART criteria.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the discharge.
The European Court of Auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for 2009 are legal and regular.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and the decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
In 2009, the Centre introduced a performance measurement system (PMS) in respect of its medium term priorities 2009-2011 and its annual work programme.
Furthermore, the Centre must apply more effectively the budgetary principles of specification and transparency.
I have voted in favour of granting discharge for 2009 in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training because the Centre has managed its funds soundly and in line with previous forecasts.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
With a view to more efficient financial management in the future, the centre should submit a comparison of the operations during the year in progress and those of the previous year, to allow the authority responsible for discharge to assess its year-on-year performance more effectively.
in writing. - (PT) I am pleased that the Court of Auditors has declared the operations underlying the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 to be legal and regular.
I would congratulate the centre for introducing a performance measurement system (PMS) in 2009, and on the introduction of changes in its recruitment procedures following remarks by the Court of Auditors in its 2009 report; these have contributed to improved transparency.
I welcome and agree with the rapporteur's observations, and I congratulate the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training on the work it does.
With today's vote I have supported the request for budgetary discharge for 2009 for the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
The Court of Auditors, which is responsible for external financial control, following a thorough asessment of the Centre's accounts, has declared that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts for 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the 2009 financial year.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2009, together with the centre's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
With today's resolution, the European Parliament grants discharge to the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the implementation of the Centre's budget for 2009.
The European Parliament expresses its satisfaction that the Court of Auditors has stated that the transactions underlying the Centre's annual accounts for the 2009 financial year are legal and regular.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the discharge.
The Centre, which was established in 1975 and carries out analyses of vocational training systems as well as providing information for policy, research and practice in this area, is needed more than ever in these times when concerns are being raised as regards the level of training and the threatened shortage of skilled labour.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Community Fisheries Control Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
In 2010 the Agency adopted its multiannual work programme for 2011-2015.
This document is important for ensuring that the Agency can make effective organisational arrangements to implement its strategy and achieve its goals.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency should set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Agency's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
The Agency should improve its annual work programme by including specific and measurable objectives both at policy area level and at operational activity level.
I voted for discharge of the implementation of the budget of the Community Fisheries Control Agency for the financial year 2009 after seeing the analysis the Court of Auditors is undertaking, which states that its actions are legal and regular.
I have voted in favour of budgetary discharge for the Community Fisheries Control Agency for 2009 because I appreciate the correctness, clarity and transparency of the accounts and the efficiency deriving from comprehensible and feasible planning.
in writing. - (PT) I am pleased with the decisions detailed in the Court of Auditors' report that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
Furthermore, we would now say that if the CFCA is allocated a budget of EUR 10 100 000 (financial year 2009), the Member States are already being denied the possibility that the EU contribution to financing control activities could increase, in line with the proposal we tabled recently in Parliament, which was, unfortunately, rejected by the majority.
Furthermore, we would now say that if the CFCA is allocated a budget of EUR 10 100 000 (financial year 2009), the Member States are already being denied the possibility that the EU contribution to financing control activities could increase, in line with the proposal we tabled recently in Parliament, which was, unfortunately, rejected by the majority.
The Community Fisheries Control Agency was founded in 2005 to ensure that the common fisheries policy rules are complied with by Member States.
It is a good thing, in my view, that the Agency has adopted the multiannual work programme for 2011-2015, as recommended in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
Furthermore, the Agency has not yet drawn up a multiannual work programme.
Both the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control have delivered a positive opinion on the implementation of the budget of the Community Fisheries Control Agency.
The controls carried out have shown that the Agency's budget is reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the Community Fisheries Control Agency.
in writing. - (PT) This report discharges the accounts of the Community Fisheries Control Agency (CFCA) in relation to its activities for 2009, renewing the discharge granted by the European Parliament on 5 May 2010, in relation to the implementation of the CFCA's budget for the financial year 2008.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the Community Fisheries Control Agency (CFCA) for the financial year 2009, together with CFCA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the CFCA discharge in respect of the implementation of the CFCA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the Community Fisheries Control Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
With today's resolution the European Parliament grants budgetary discharge 2009 to the Executive Director of the Community Fisheries Control Agency.
The European Parliament congratulates the agency on adopting a multiannual work programme for the period 2011-2015 and underlines the importance of such a document for the Agency to adopt efficient organisational arrangements with a view to implementing its strategy and achieving its goals.
The Agency will be indispensable in the immediate future in view of the appalling fact that 88% of fish stocks in the EU are being overfished.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency should consider making a Gantt diagram part of the programming for each of its operational activities, with a view to indicating in a concise form the amount of time spent by each staff member on a project and encouraging an approach geared towards achieving results.
The Agency should set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year, so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Agency's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
The Agency still demonstrates deficiencies in staff selection procedures, which put at risk the transparency of these procedures.
I agree that the Agency must inform the European Parliament on the actions taken to redress this situation and make selection procedures more transparent.
Moreover, I agree on the need for the agency to put in place more precise mechanisms for setting its objectives and for evaluating the results.
I welcome and agree with the rapporteur's observations, and I congratulate the European Aviation Safety Agency on the work it does.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
However, it expressed concern about the lack of coordination between the needs, staff and financial regulation of the Agency and, in particular, that staff selection procedures made it difficult to recruit appropriately qualified personnel.
I therefore believe that it is necessary to take the current observations into account.
in writing. - (PL) The Agency's work programme for 2010 is a matter of some concern to me.
I ultimately decided to lend my support to the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Aviation Safety Agency for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Aviation Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution, Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European Aviation Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament welcomes the fact that the Court of Auditors found the Agency's accounts for the financial year 2009 to be reliable and the transactions to be, in all material respects, legal and regular.
At the same time, I should like to take this opportunity to emphasise the call in this report for a more transparent staff selection process.
In view of the responsible tasks that the European Aviation Safety Agency carries out and the stated difficulties of finding qualified personnel, this should be accorded full consideration.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for the financial year 2009.
The Centre is an important institution that can strengthen and develop European disease surveillance and assess and communicate current and emerging threats to human health posed by infectious diseases.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Centre must set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year, so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Centre's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
in writing. - (BG) The budget of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for the financial year 2009 increased by 25.3% compared with 2008.
I think that the EUR 51 million could have been spent more effectively if they had been invested in regional disease monitoring systems in each individual Member State.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control because the rapporteur has succeeded in identifying the most significant problems in terms of the transparency and accuracy of the accounts and because I am confident that this important and useful Agency will work on its administration in order to improve the areas pointed out, without undoing the good work that it has already done.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
I believe it is a very important institution that can strengthen and develop European disease surveillance, and assess and communicate current and emerging threats to human health posed by infectious diseases.
I regret, however, that the principle of annuality has not been respected, and that there was a high number of carryovers.
I would also like to mention the centre's important contribution to the measures combating the pandemic of the H1N1 virus in 2009, not least by publishing preliminary guidelines on the use of specific vaccines against the influenza during the pandemic of the H1N1 virus in 2009.
I welcome and agree with the rapporteur's observations, and I congratulate the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control on the work it does.
In view of the Court of Auditors' statement that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable, and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for the financial year 2009.
Lastly, I should like to congratulate the Centre on its contribution to the measures to fight the H1N1 virus pandemic of 2009.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDPC) for the financial year 2009, together with the ECDPC's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ECDPC discharge in respect of the implementation of the ECDPC budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament calls once more on the Centre to set out, in a table to be annexed to the Court of Auditors' next report, a comparison of the operations that were carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and during the previous financial year, so as to enable the discharge authority to assess more effectively the Centre's performance from one year to the next.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Chemicals Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
These two aspects are clearly crucial to the effective operation of an agency, but this makes me consider whether the agency can cope with the objectives it has been set in general.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 general budget of the European Chemicals Agency since the report shows that, despite several gaps and imperfections in the accounts, partly due to the recent creation of this Agency, its performance in terms of controls and budget management has steadily improved.
in writing. - (PT) The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) contributes to improving the European public's quality of life by guaranteeing the safe use of chemical substances and fostering innovation.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Chemicals Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
However, the Court of Auditors highlighted delays in the operational activities caused by difficulties in implementing the IT system and by a lack of qualified staff.
I therefore believe that it is necessary to take the current observations into account.
Today's vote sees the Executive Director of the European Chemicals Agency granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
I voted in favour because the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control showed that all the transactions made by the Agency were perfectly legal and regular.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) for the financial year 2009, together with the ECHA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ECHA discharge in respect of the implementation of the ECHA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Chemicals Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European Chemicals Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
In particular, Parliament congratulates the Agency for having conducted a stakeholder survey in 2009 and for having increased assistance activities for industry.
Based on the available data, the discharge of the Agency was recommended, this Agency having already submitted information that will be required of the other agencies in the future (such as an annexed table showing a comparison of figures from two consecutive financial years).
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Agency is a reliable provider of independent environmental information for all Union institutions, the Member States and policy-making bodies.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency must set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year.
in writing. - (BG) Why should we fund agencies which fail to implement recommendations made by the Internal Audit Service?
In 2006, 27 recommendations were made, of which only nine have been implemented so far.
This leads me to think that the European Environment Agency does not operate properly and its funding must be discontinued.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the European Environment Agency because I think the work it does is essential in this day and age.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
in writing. - (PT) The goal of the European Environment Agency (EEA) is to make available credible and independent information about the environment.
The EEA's mandate includes two aspects: firstly, support for European Union Member States in formulating economic policy that incorporates environmental issues and sustainability; secondly, coordinating environmental information through the Environment Information and Observation Network (Eionet).
in writing. - (PT) The rapporteur makes some observations and recommendations that we consider relevant in terms of budgetary processes for the European Environmental Agency (EEA) to take into account.
The EEA can and should have an important role in compiling objective, trustworthy and comparable information on the environment in Europe, and in making it available in an accessible and thorough way.
Nevertheless, it is important to be at pains to guarantee better cooperation, linkup and coordination with the competent institutions in the Member States, by promoting synergies and better circulation of information.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2009.
Today's vote sees discharge granted in respect of the implementation of the European Environment Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
I voted in favour because the audits carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control showed that all the transactions made by the Agency were perfectly legal and regular.
In addition, I think the Agency does a very important job and I support the recent efforts made to involve the public more on important environmental matters, such as climate change, biodiversity and the management of natural resources.
in writing. - I voted to give the European Environment Agency discharge on its budget.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Environment Agency (EEA) for the financial year 2009, together with the EEA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the EEA discharge in respect of the implementation of the EEA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Environment Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Environment Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament specifically welcomes the Agency as a reliable provider of independent and assured environmental information for all Union institutions, the Member States and policy-making bodies.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the discharge in view of the fact that the European Court of Auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts presented for 2009 were legal and regular.
The European Environment Agency has performed important work in recent years in providing independent, reliable information and data in the area of the environment, which is a major concern of a large proportion of Europe's citizens, as evidenced by the annual reports of the Committee on Petitions.
I also welcome the report's request that the European Court of Auditors undertake performance audits on the Agency.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Food Safety Authority for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Authority must improve its budget management in order to reduce its high carryover amounts.
The Authority also needs to ensure its advice is high quality and independent in order to guarantee compliance with Union safety standards and scientific excellence and independence on all matters with a direct or indirect impact on food and food safety and plant protection.
I also voted in favour because, although it should strengthen the planning and monitoring of budget processes, I agree that the EFSA needs to ensure that its advice is of a high quality and is independent, in order to guarantee compliance with Union safety standards, scientific excellence and independence on all matters with a direct or indirect impact on food and feed safety, and plant protection.
in writing. - (BG) We cannot ignore the fact that for three successive years - 2006, 2007 and 2008 - the European Food Safety Authority carried over a large part of its commitments for operational activities.
An even more controversial fact is that the Court of Auditors reported difficulties in the implementation of the agency's 2009 work programme.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 general budget of the European Food Safety Authority, not only because the Court of Auditors has declared that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are regular and legal, but also because the Agency has allocated some funds from its reserve for the completion of a number of important projects in infrastructure, information technology development and scientific cooperation, for example.
However, I think further audits ought to be carried out on the use of some funds and budgetary management ought to be improved in order to reduce the high number of carryovers.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge of the budget of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
in writing. - (PT) The work of European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) takes in all stages of food production and supply, from primary production to supplying consumers with food, including the safety of animal feed.
It can go ahead with a scientific assessment of any issue that could have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of the food supply, including issues related to animal health or welfare, and plant health.
If food safety is one of the main requirements and greatest concerns of a market with over 500 million consumers, the way it is assessed and studied requires extremely high levels of professionalism, performance and impartiality.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Food Safety Authority for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
Firstly I should like to thank everyone who worked on the report and to congratulate the European Food Safety Authority itself, which has respected the need to provide high-quality, independent advice in order to guarantee compliance with safety standards as well as scientific excellence and independence on all matters with a direct or indirect impact on food safety.
Unfortunately I have to point out a few difficulties reported by the Court of Auditors following the audits carried out during the implementation of the 2009 work programme.
I therefore add my voice to the calls for the Authority to take the necessary measures to remedy these shortcomings which, in any case, have not nullified the general regularity and reliability of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for the financial year 2009, together with the EFSA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the EFSA discharge in respect of the implementation of the EFSA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Food Safety Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European Food Safety Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament congratulates the Authority for having set out, in the table annexed to the Court of Auditors' 2009 report, a comparison of the operations that were carried out during 2008 and 2009 so as to enable the discharge authority to assess more effectively its performance from one year to the next.
Parliament also welcomes the fact that the Authority has increased its number of thematic papers and policy briefings.
The Internal Audit Service (IAS) has made 48 recommendations on grant management, 27 of which even fall into the 'critical' category.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree that the Centre should consider making a Gantt diagram part of the programming for each of its operational activities, with a view to indicating in concise form the amount of time spent by each staff member on a project and encouraging an approach geared towards achieving results.
I welcome the Centre's initiative to provide the European Parliament with the Internal Audit Service's Annual Internal Audit Report on the Centre, because this is a sign of transparency and best practice.
I view the contribution of a framework for comparison with 2009 and 2008 positively, as it has facilitated the analysis of the increase in its activities.
Its remit is to provide objective, reliable and comparable information enabling the European Union and its Member States to have a wide-ranging perspective on the phenomenon of drug addiction and its consequences.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, as the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial year 2009.
At the same time, the budget of the Centre was 2.25% less than its budget for 2008.
I voted in favour on the basis of the report by the Court of Auditors, which stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addicition and, in doing so, welcome the fact that the Centre has further enhanced the annual forecast of its cash needs; notes that this forecast is constantly updated and submitted as a supporting document to the relevant Commission services to justify the Centre's quarterly request for payment of the next instalment of its annual subsidy allocated by the Union.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) for the financial year 2009, together with the EMCDDA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the EMCDDA discharge in respect of the implementation of the EMCDDA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament welcomes the Centre's initiative to run a computerised network for the collection and exchange of information called the European Information Network on Drugs and Drug Addiction.
Parliament notes that this network connects national drug information networks, specialist centres in the Member States and the information systems of international organisations working with the Centre.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the discharge.
The Monitoring Centre has already presented a table comparing financial years 2008 and 2009 - not just the figures (which show a 2.25% reduction in funds compared with 2008), but also the measures implemented.
To fully ensure transparency the EMCDDA wishes to present the full report from the Internal Audit Service.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Maritime Safety Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree that the Agency should consider making a Gantt diagram part of the programming for each of its operational activities, with a view to indicating in a concise form the amount of time spent by each staff member on a project and encouraging an approach geared towards achieving results.
The Agency should set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Agency's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
In 2009, the Court of Auditors again noted a high number of budget transfers; therefore the Agency must continue to improve its planning and monitoring in order to reduce the number of budget transfers.
The Agency must also take steps to overcome deficiencies in staff selection procedures, which put at risk the transparency of these procedures.
I voted for this report.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 general budget of the European Maritime Safety Authority because, despite the previous absence of a multiannual programme and significant concern over the high number of budget transfers in 2008, the Agency has shown improvements in its management and, taken as a whole, the Court of Auditors had a positive view of the annual accounts and the underlying transactions.
in writing. - (PT) The environmental disasters of the ships Erika and Prestige have laid bare the need to do more for maritime safety at European level.
This agency should, however, make efforts to improve its planning and monitoring policies.
I voted in favour today of granting discharge to the European Maritime Safety Agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - I voted to grant discharge to the European Maritime Safety Agency for its 2009 budget but call on the Agency to further reduce the number of posteriori commitments (i.e.
legal commitments that were entered into before the corresponding budgetary commitments were made); reminds the Agency that, since 2006, the Court of Auditors has reported infringements of Article 62(1) of the Financial Regulation; welcomes, nevertheless, the Agency's efforts to improve this situation by providing ad hoc training to avoid posteriori commitments.
However, it should be stressed that the Court of Auditors has, once again, noted a high number of budget transfers in 2009 (49 in 2009, 52 in 2008 and 32 in 2007), so it is desirable that the EMSA improve its planning and monitoring to thus reduce the number of transfers.
It is also desirable that the EMSA set out, in a table to be annexed to the Court of Auditors' next report, a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year, so as to enable the discharge authority to assess more effectively the EMSA's performance from one year to the next.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) for the financial year 2009, together with the EMSA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the EMSA discharge in respect of the implementation of the EMSA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
With the vote on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) for 2009, Parliament has been able to confirm the good governance of that Agency and the use of its appropriations for their intended purpose.
I welcome this vote, as it reaffirms Parliament's commitment to the Agency, which plays a crucial role in monitoring and supervising Europe's seas.
The sea is an area that belongs to all Europeans, and it is part of our heritage.
I voted in favour of discharge since the deficiencies listed mainly concerned procurement and staff selection procedures, while the European Court of Auditors gave a positive verdict on the annual accounts for 2009.
However, these deficiencies must be remedied in 2010 and the 'very important' Internal Audit Service (IAS) recommendations must all be implemented if discharge is to be warranted in 2010.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Network and Information Security Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency should strengthen its internal controls to make sure that contracts and procurement procedures are correctly applied.
The Agency must also provide regular information on its financial circuits and the responsibilities of the relevant financial and operational actors.
The Agency must redress this situation and inform the European Parliament on the actions taken.
in writing. - (PT) The dematerialisation of contact between people and the increasing use of Web platforms make it advisable for the European Union to put cyber-safety in the 'essential' category.
Since its foundation, the European Maritime Safety Agency has been giving extremely important support to the European Commission and to Member States, especially in terms of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Network and Information Security Agency for the financial year 2009.
I voted in favour on the basis of the statements made by the Court of Auditors, which has confirmed that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Network and Information Security Agency and, in doing so, I note with disappointment that there has been no progress since the previous year concerning the refund of EUR 45 000 which is the amount of VAT paid in advance by the Agency to the tax authorities of the host Member State; urges, therefore, the Agency to inform the discharge authority when this refund is made by the host Member State.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) for the financial year 2009, together with the ENISA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ENISA discharge in respect of the implementation of the ENISA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Network and Information Security Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European Network and Information Security Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament underlines that the Court of Auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - (DE) I did not vote in favour of the discharge.
Since the Agency has refused a full five of the 18 recommendations, however, it seems that even the will required for this is lacking.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Railway Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors informed the European Parliament that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that using two locations (Lille and Valenciennes) for carrying out its activities exposes the Agency to additional costs.
I believe that the Agency should set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Agency's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
I congratulate the Agency, following the Court of Auditors' comments, on implementing a centralised system for registration of incoming invoices.
This measure is necessary to ensure the timely recording of all invoices and contributes to avoiding delays in processing payments.
I also agree on the need to make a number of improvements in the area of auditing the accounts and managing the budget in order to reduce the level of carryovers and cancellations, which is still too high.
in writing. - (LT) I abstained from the vote on this document, although the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Railway Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
It is worrying that concern was expressed over the weaknesses in procurement procedures revealed by the Court of Auditors' audit - cancellations and delays in procurement procedures, recurrent delays in the execution of payments and significant changes made to the work programme during the year.
The Court of Auditors identified shortcomings in the management of the fixed assets' inventory, but notes the Agency's assurance that this will be remedied in the 2010 accounts.
This is also the reason for my abstention.
Unfortunately, the audit process revealed cancellations and delays in procurement procedures, recurrent delays in the execution of payments and significant changes made to the work programme during the year.
I believe that such problems ought to be avoided in future years.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Railway Agency for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Railway Agency for its 2009 budget.
However, I regret the shortcomings in the management of the fixed assets' inventory identified by the Court of Auditors but note the Agency's assurance that this will be remedied in the 2010 accounts; considers that uncertainty about the location of fixed assets is another illustration of the problems and additional costs arising from using two sites.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Railway Agency (ERA) for the financial year 2009, together with the ERA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ERA discharge in respect of the implementation of the ERA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Railway Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Railway Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament is concerned that the Court of Auditors has again highlighted cancellations and delays in procurement procedures, recurrent delays in the execution of payments and significant changes made to the work programme during the year.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting in this instance because I would have preferred the discharge to be postponed.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors informed the European Parliament that the Foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I feel that the Foundation must set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Foundation's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
I also welcome the Foundation's initiative to provide the European Parliament with the Internal Audit Service's Annual Internal Audit Report on the Foundation.
I agree with the entire content of the report and I would highlight the ETF's initiative of providing the discharge authority with the Internal Audit Service (IAS) Annual Internal Audit Report, as it is a sign of transparency to be followed by all other agencies.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge in respect of the European Training Foundation since, as the report underlines, the management of the accounts and the transactions was, taken as a whole, legal and regular.
However, I think the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures and the inquiry opened by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) are worrying.
in writing. - (PT) The objective of the European Training Foundation (ETF) is to contribute to the development of professional training systems, by strengthening cooperation regarding professional training and ensuring the coordination of aid.
There is a need for both caution and rigour when spending the available funds on issues related to professional training involving countries in the developing world.
I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Training Foundation for the financial year 2009.
However, worryingly, concern was expressed over the findings of the Court of Auditors as regards the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures and the intervention of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), which has opened an inquiry (OF/2009/0370).
In view of the Court of Auditors' statement that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable, and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the financial year 2009.
Clearly, every debate on discharge has its own particular context, and the context of today's debate is the economic and financial crisis, which has caused financial and budgetary problems for a number of Member States.
Despite these difficulties, I congratulate the Foundation on its intention to improve the performance of Vocational Education and Training (VET) systems in the Foundation partner countries ('Torino Process') while at the same time undertaking a thorough review of its recruitment procedures.
in writing. - I voted to give the European Training Foundation discharge for its 2009 budget and welcome the Foundation's initiative of providing the discharge authority with the IAS Annual Internal Audit Report concerning the Foundation.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Training Foundation (ETF) for the financial year 2009, together with the ETF's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ETF discharge in respect of the implementation of the ETF budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Training Foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the 2009 financial year.
Further potential savings can be made through increased cooperation with the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP).
The Foundation hopes to deal with the criticised lack of transparency in staff recruitment by means of a thorough review of the process.
I voted in favour of this report and endorsed discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors informed the European Parliament that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency must set out a comparison of operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and in the previous financial year so as to enable the European Parliament to assess the Agency's performance from one year to the next more effectively.
I believe that the Agency must reduce the increased cancellation rate and inform the European Parliament of the actions taken.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 budget of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work because I think that, despite some inconsistencies identified by the Court of Auditors in the management of some funds and irregularities with respect to a procurement procedure, it can be said that the management on the whole has been good.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge of the budget of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
in writing. - (PT) This agency is responsible for providing useful technical, scientific and economic information on health and safety in the workplace to the Union authorities, to the Member States and to interested parties.
This information is essential to enable assessment of health and safety conditions in the workplace in the Union, and of what Europe's current best practices in this field are.
Despite the Court of Auditors stating that the agency's accounts are reliable, and the fact that the agency effectively coordinated the network of agencies during the process of discharging the budget for the financial year 2009, the rapporteur singled out that it had not provided sufficient information for comparing actions carried out with subsequent years.
I deem such information relevant and there should be an accompanying table annexed to the next report by the Court of Auditors, as is suggested.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2009.
The Agency's budget for 2009 was EUR 15 100 000, which is an increase of 0.6% from its budget of 2008.
In view of the Court of Auditors' statement that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable, and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2009.
Clearly, every debate on discharge has its own particular context, and the context of today's debate is the economic and financial crisis, which has caused financial and budgetary problems for a number of Member States.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, I commend the Agency on the progress it has made, despite a few mistakes, and on its effective work as coordinator of the network of Agencies during the 2009 discharge procedure.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work.
I welcome the Agency's initiative of providing the discharge authority with the Internal Audit Service (IAS)'s Annual Internal Audit Report.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (DE) Discharge has been granted.
I voted in favour of this report and endorsed discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Euratom Supply Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors informed the European Parliament that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that this situation is at odds with the Agency's Statutes and that it raises the issue of the need to maintain the Agency in its current form and organisation.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the Euratom Supply Agency because it has managed its finances accurately and carefully.
However, I think it is necessary, as the report states, to revise the legal position of the Agency, since it is still integrated into the Commission.
in writing. - (PT) The European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) works in areas linked to atomic energy, specifically research, and drawing up guidelines for the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Through the creation of this agency, Euratom aimed to ensure a regular and equitable supply of ores, raw materials and special combustible materials in the European Union.
It is about time this trend was reversed, hence I abstained on this report.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the Euratom Supply Agency.
This situation has persisted since the creation of the agency in 2008.
in writing. - (PT) Taking into account the Court of Auditors' report on the annual accounts of the Euratom (European Atomic Energy Community) Supply Agency (ESA) for the financial year 2009, together with the ESA's replies, I voted for this decision, which grants the Executive Director of the ESA discharge in respect of the implementation of the ESA budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament underlines that the Court of Auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable, and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I would have liked to have seen this matter clarified, particularly in view of the current Europe-wide rethink on nuclear power.
The Court of Auditors informed the European Parliament that the Foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Foundation must further develop its Eurofound Performance Monitoring System to ensure that the results of its performance monitoring are fed back into management decision-making and planning.
I also believe that the Foundation must take steps to improve its evaluation and review procedure in the area of procurement to avoid future repetition of the assessment errors and inconsistencies identified by the Court of Auditors.
Furthermore, the Foundation must make sure that funds are only used when appropriations are approved.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge of the budget of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound) for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
in writing. - (PT) The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound) is a tripartite Union body, set up in 1975 with the aim of contributing to planning and establishing better working and living conditions in Europe.
More specifically, it assesses and analyses working and living conditions, it gives authorised opinions and advice to key actors in the field of EU social policy, it contributes to improving quality of life, and it provides information on developments and trends, especially those that bring about changes.
I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 2009.
However, the Court of Auditors revealed errors and anomalies in the evaluation of one open procurement procedure which affected its quality.
The Foundation must therefore take steps to improve its evaluation and review procedure to avoid the repetition of such errors in the future.
It is regrettable that the Court of Auditors was compelled to comment on the budgetary and financial statement of the Foundation, especially to the effect that the initial provisional accounts presented by the Foundation contained serious shortcomings, pointing to significant weaknesses in the financial organisation of the Foundation.
However, I feel it is important to highlight the presence of some errors and anomalies that the Court of Auditors revealed in its evaluation of one open procurement procedure, which affected its quality.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working conditions but call on the Foundation to make sure that appropriations are made available only when the corresponding assigned revenue has been received; notes, in fact, that the Court of Auditors reported that, contrary to its Financial Regulation (Article 19), the Foundation's budget did not provide for specific headings for various programmes financed from assigned revenue; notes, moreover, that under a programme financed by assigned revenue, the Foundation committed EUR 184 000, although the assigned revenue actually received was only EUR 29 000.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the Foundation's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament notes that the Court of Auditors revealed errors and anomalies in the evaluation of one open procurement procedure which affected its quality.
Parliament therefore calls on the Foundation to take steps to improve its evaluation and review procedure to avoid repetition of such errors in the future.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting on this discharge.
The report lists a series of deficiencies, but at the same time it refers to assurances by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions that it will effectively remedy these.
While this is to be welcomed, in view of the quality of the deficiencies (shortcomings in recruitment procedures were found as far back as 2006, the provisional accounts submitted to the European Court of Auditors contained serious errors resulting from weaknesses in the financial organisation) it is not possible to vote in favour of discharge.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of Eurojust for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, Eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency must inform the European Parliament on these key indicators and their links to Eurojust's objectives, budget and work programme.
I congratulate the Agency on establishing measures to estimate the market value of relevant products and services before commencing a procurement procedure.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to Eurojust since, as the report shows, it has managed its resources extremely well and, by using many indicators to explain its financial situation, has also done so extremely transparently.
in writing. - (PT) Eurojust is a European Union body which helps researchers and the representatives of public prosecutors across the EU work together in the fight against cross-border criminal activity.
It plays a key role in the exchange of information and in extradition processes.
The particular importance and sensitivity of these issues makes it necessary that Eurojust have means enabling it to pursue them effectively, although the necessary means are never enough, as is obvious when dealing with justice and crime fighting.
in writing. - (LT) I abstained from the vote on this document, although the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of Eurojust for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I abstained because the Court of Auditors again found deficiencies in procurement procedures, as in the previous three years.
I voted in favour because, following audits carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to Eurojust and congratulate the agency for establishing measures to estimate the market value of relevant products/services before commencing a procurement procedure.
I welcome, in addition, the agency's annual procurement plan for 2009 which greatly helped Eurojust's units and services in the management of their tenders.
in writing. - This grants the Administrative Director of Eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of Eurojust's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Administrative Director of Eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of Eurojust's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document and endorsed discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX) for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors reported that the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
In June 2009, the Management Board of the Agency adopted a multiannual plan for the period 2010-2013, which will enable the Agency to plan its activities and risk-assess them more effectively.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) because, as the report states, its accounts and transactions, taken as a whole, are shown in the analysis to be positive, regular and legal.
However, I must agree with the report where it states that due to a number of inconsistencies, procedures lacking transparency and carryovers revealed in the budget, the Agency should improve its financial management.
in writing. - (PT) The duties of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) are to support Member States in the training of border guards, including the establishment of common training guidelines; to carry out risk analysis; to monitor the development of relevant research on the subject of controlling and observation of external borders; to support the Member States in any circumstances requiring increased operational and technical assistance at external borders; and to provide the Member States with the necessary support in the area of mass return operations.
The increasing migration pressure on the Union's borders and the need for coordination between Member States amply justifies Frontex being equipped with sufficient means for carrying out the duties with which it has been entrusted.
in writing. - (LT) I abstained from the vote on this document, although the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX) for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I abstained because the European Parliament is concerned that the Court of Auditors has reported carry-overs which were already reported in its 2006, 2007 and 2008 annual reports, and regrets, in particular, the high level of carry-overs and cancellations since 2006.
The Court of Auditors also reported, for the second year running, that the Agency paid out amounts on the basis of unilateral grant decisions signed by the Agency, while the rules in force make no provision for this type of instrument.
For the activities which ended in 2009, more than 40 recovery orders had to be issued to recover advances made in excess.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to Frontex, but observe that the Court of Auditors reported, for the second year running, that the agency paid out amounts on the basis of unilateral grant decisions signed by the agency, while the rules in force make no provision for this type of instrument.
I note that the amount paid out was more than EUR 28 000 000 in 2009, and was EUR 17 000 000 in 2008.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
Due to increased immigration flows, Frontex is required to play an active role in guarding the European borders.
According to Frontex, 95% of illegal immigrants entering Europe enter via Greece.
Deporting an illegal immigrant costs EUR 6 500 and, under Dublin II, the country of entry is responsible for their deportation.
We need to support Frontex both financially and operationally and make the external borders of the EU more secure.
We also need a mechanism for allocating the overall number of immigrants between all Member States.
That significant increase in the budget between 2006 and 2009 was both necessary and legitimate.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting.
Frontex also initiated new initiatives to analyse its measures, including their impact, and to improve the transparency and objectivity of staff selection.
However, the European Court of Auditors found deficiencies again in 2009 that had already been highlighted every year since 2006.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors judged that the Authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I welcome the fact that most of the activities and assets related to the EGNOS and Galileo programmes were transferred to the Commission in December 2009.
Irregularities were also found in staff selection procedures.
The Agency must redress these deficiencies and inform the European Parliament as laid down.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 budget of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority because it has been well managed in accounting terms and the figures provided are considered reliable.
However, some irregularities remain in the field of human resources, particularly in terms of staff selection procedures, which are thought to lack transparency.
I therefore hope that the aforementioned Authority will strive to make improvements in this area.
in writing. - (PT) The duties of the Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) Supervisory Authority are to oversee the management of public interest with regard to related European programmes and to act as their regulatory body.
in writing. - (LT) I abstained from the vote on this document, although the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority for the financial year 2009.
The Authority's budget for the year 2009 was EUR 44 400 000, which is a decrease of 64% from the financial year 2008.
I abstained because Parliament regrets the deficiencies in staff selection procedures, which put at risk the transparency of these procedures.
It is necessary to make procedures more transparent, so that in future uncertainty as regards the activities of this Authority can be eliminated.
Through today's vote Parliament has granted the Executive Director of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
I voted in favour on the basis of the evaluations and reports completed by the Court of Auditors and the Committee for Budgetary Control, which declared that they have obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the European GNSS Supervisory Authority because the Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Artemis Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, the Joint Undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Joint Undertaking is still in a start-up period and therefore understand the relatively low utilisation rate for payment appropriations.
I also feel that, in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks, the Joint Undertaking should consider establishing an audit committee, reporting directly to the governing board.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the Artemis Joint Undertaking because it has managed its finances extremely well for an agency which is still in the start-up period.
I therefore think that improvements can be made in the future and that the inconsistencies reported in the accounts for this financial year can be corrected.
in writing. - (PT) The Artemis Joint Undertaking will implement a common technological initiative (CTI) in the area of incorporated information technology systems.
This public-private partnership is essentially aimed at supporting the cofinancing of research initiatives at European level, as well as improving cooperation between the various operators in the sector.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the Artemis Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking final 2009 budget included commitment appropriations of EUR 46 000 000 and payment appropriations of EUR 8 000 000, and the utilisation rates for commitment and payment appropriations were 81% and 20% respectively.
I believe that the Joint Undertaking is still in a start-up period and therefore understand the relatively low utilisation rate for payment appropriations.
Both the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control issued a positive opinion on the implementation of the budget of the Artemis Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
The audits carried out showed that the accounts of the Joint Undertaking were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. - I voted to grant discharge to the Artemis Joint Undertaking but I believe that, in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks, the Joint Undertaking should consider establishing an audit committee reporting directly to the governing board.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the Artemis Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the Artemis Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament underlines that the Joint Undertaking was set up in December 2007 to define and implement a 'Research Agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen European competitiveness and sustainability, and allow the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, the Joint Undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
The introduction of these systems needs to be completed.
I also believe that the Joint Undertaking must further develop provisions on membership and cofinancing.
in writing. - (BG) I have a few comments to make about the operation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking, which is why I am not supporting the discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
It comes as no surprise that the research activities pre-financed in 2008 were not fully implemented during 2009 and that only 65% of the pre-financing was used.
However, what concerns me the most is that the Joint Undertaking had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems, which jeopardises transparency in the spending of money coming from European taxpayers.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the 2009 budget of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking because, despite a number of irregularities in the Undertaking's budget, I think that we can be confident of future improvements in its auditing performance since it is still in the start-up phase.
in writing. - (PT) The creation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking is due to the need to promote the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the EU, to be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
The Joint Undertaking final 2009 budget included commitment appropriations of EUR 91 000 000 and payment appropriations of EUR 60 000 000, and the utilisation rates for commitment and payment appropriations were 98% and 1% respectively.
I believe that the Joint Undertaking is still in a start-up period and therefore understand the relatively low utilisation rate for payment appropriations.
Both the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Budgetary Control have issued a positive opinion on the implementation of the budget of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
I do however think it would be helpful if the Joint Undertaking heeded the call for it to complete the implementation of its internal controls and financial information system, above all in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks.
Mr President, I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
In addition, no decisions have yet been taken regarding the headquarters in Belgium, which makes it significantly more difficult for the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking to function efficiently.
in writing. - I voted to grant discharge to the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking.
I am concerned, nevertheless, that the research activities pre-financed by the Commission in 2008 on behalf of the Joint Undertaking were not fully implemented during 2009 and that, as a result of delays in the projects, only EUR 8 700 000 or 65 % of the EUR 13 600 000 pre-financing was used.
I am particularly concerned that the adoption, structure and presentation of the approved budget of the Joint Undertaking for 2009 were not in line with Regulation (EC) No 71/2008 setting up the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking, or with the Financial Rules of the Joint Undertaking.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, the Joint Undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Joint Undertaking should further develop provisions on membership and cofinancing and complete the implementation of its internal controls and financial information system.
I hope that in future the Innovative Medicines Initiative Joint Undertaking will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and will help the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines.
in writing. - (BG) In my view, the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines ought to be completely financed by pharmaceutical companies or by its other members who have the biggest interest in the operation of this undertaking.
in writing. - (PT) The Joint Undertaking is aimed at the process of developing pharmaceuticals that are more effective and efficient, so that the pharmaceutical sector can produce innovative medicines that are safer and more effective.
Therefore, the Joint Undertaking's objectives are to contribute to the delivery of the Seventh Framework Programme, and to supporting pharmaceutical research and development in Member States, and in countries associated with the Seventh Framework Programme.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this document, because the Committee responsible decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Innovative Medicines Initiative Joint Undertaking was set up in February 2007 to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process with the long-term aim of helping the pharmaceutical sector to produce more effective and safer innovative medicines.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
As we know, every debate on discharge has its own particular context, and the context of today's debate is the economic and financial crisis, which has caused financial and budgetary problems for a number of Member States.
in writing. - I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines for the financial year 2009.
I urge the Joint Undertaking to complete the implementation of its internal controls and financial information system as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) Through today's resolution Parliament grants Executive Director of the Joint Undertaking for the Implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the SESAR Joint Undertaking.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, SESAR's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
The introduction of these systems needs to be completed.
Furthermore, it is important to set out the conditions under which unspent funds would be transferred to the following year.
in writing. - (BG) The Joint Undertaking to develop the new generation European air traffic management system (SESAR) is an important initiative.
However, at a time of financial crisis and difficulties in many Member States, I do not think that it is appropriate for us to be spending millions of euros in this manner.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the SESAR Joint Undertaking because that recently formed undertaking has convinced the Court of Auditors of its reliability.
The effort that the institution is making to complete the implementation of its internal control systems is already well known, but I think further endeavours ought to be made in this area in order to guarantee the transparency and reliability of the accounts.
in writing. - (PT) This Joint Undertaking aims to modernise the European air traffic management system, and it should bring together the Union's efforts towards research and development under the scope of the Single European Sky Air Traffic Management (ATM) Research (SESAR).
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Court of Auditors found that important steps were taken in 2009 to establish control systems, but expresses concern that an integrated tool to manage financial, budget and operational information was not in place at year-end.
Notwithstanding a few gaps and irregularities revealed by the Court of Auditors during its analysis and assessment of the budget of the SESAR Joint Undertaking, I voted in favour of granting discharge for the financial year 2009.
However, I think that, in order to avoid the same mistakes being made in future procedures, SESAR should complete and implement internal control systems and a financial information system which would allow for the most reliable and accurate assessment possible of the budgetary transactions for each financial year.
in writing. - I voted for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the SESAR Joint Undertaking for the financial year 2009.
Nevertheless, I am concerned that an integrated management system - allowing costs to be allocated to specific work packages and funding sources for operational costs to be identified - was not in place by December 2009.
in writing. - This grants the Executive Director of the SESAR Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Executive Director of the SESAR Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament welcomes the fact that the Court of Auditors found the Joint Undertaking's annual accounts for 2009 to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be, in all material respects, legal and regular.
Such an exceptional case, which it was the European Parliament's duty to investigate, is that involving MEP Luigi de Magistris, summoned before the courts in his own country in connection with an interview given to an Italian newspaper as a member of a political party represented in European structures.
Taking into account established practice in this Parliament, considering that the legal proceedings are of a civil or administrative law nature, and mindful of the Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am voting in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of our fellow Member, Mr De Magistris.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report, because the Committee on Legal Affairs believes that in giving the interview in question, Mr Luigi de Magistris was acting in performance of his duties as a Member of the European Parliament and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents.
Attempts to prevent Members of Parliament from expressing their opinions on matters of legitimate public interest and concern, and from criticising their political opponents, by bringing legal proceedings are unacceptable in a democratic society and represent a breach of Article 8 of the Protocol, which is intended to protect Members' freedom of expression when performing their duties in the interests of Parliament as an institution of the European Union.
On the basis of the above considerations and pursuant to Article 6(3) of the Rules of Procedure, after considering the reasons for and against defending the Member's immunity, the Committee on Legal Affairs recommends that the European Parliament should defend the parliamentary immunity of Mr Luigi De Magistris.
in writing. - I voted for this report because the committee responsible considers that, in giving the interview in question, Luigi de Magistris was acting in the performance of his duties as Member of the European Parliament and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents.
To seek to prevent Members of Parliament from expressing their opinions on matters of legitimate public interest and concern and from criticising their political opponents by bringing legal proceedings is unacceptable in a democratic society and in breach of Article 8 of the Protocol, which is intended to protect Members' freedom of expression in the performance of their duties in the interests of Parliament as an institution of the European Union.
According to the report, he was acting in performance of his duties as Member of the European Parliament and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents.
I voted in favour because I advocate freedom of expression for Members when performing their duties, and in order to defend the interests of the European Parliament as an institution.
in writing. - (BG) I defend the privileges and immunity of Bruno Gollnisch and I think that the persecution he is being subjected to is of a purely political nature.
His immunity must be defended so that he can continue to carry out his duties as a fully-fledged Member of the European Parliament.
Bruno Gollnisch, MEP and intellectual guru of the Front National, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in connection with measures applied by the French authorities as part of a criminal investigation involving Mr Gollnisch in his role as President of the Front National in the Rhône-Alpes Regional Council and in which the International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism brought a claim for compensation in January 2009 for incitement to racial hatred.
Article 8 of the chapter on law and procedure on the immunity of Members of the European Parliament stipulates that the latter shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties.
This report is on the request for the defence of the privileges and immunity of our fellow Member, Mr Gollnisch.
The case concerns an accusation of incitement to racial hatred made by the International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism (LICRA) following the publication of a press release on the site of the Front National Group in the Rhône-Alpes Regional Council, of which Mr Gollnisch was president.
Taking into account established practice in this Parliament and the Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I agree with the rapporteur's position and am voting in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of our fellow Member, Mr Gollnisch.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report, because Article 8 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union was not invoked by Bruno Gollnisch in his request for defence of immunity and it is not applicable in this case.
The Committee responsible has found no evidence of a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case has been brought with the intention of causing political damage to the Member.
Having considered all the arguments, the Committee on Legal Affairs recommends that the European Parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of Bruno Gollnisch.
in writing. - After considering the reasons for and against defending the Member's parliamentary immunity, I agree with the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs that Parliament should not defend the immunity of Bruno Gollnisch.
Mr Gollnisch has requested that the European Parliament defend his parliamentary immunity in connection with measures which he claims restrict his freedom applied by the French authorities as part of the judicial investigation of an action and claim for compensation (plainte avec constitution de partie civile) brought by the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism on 26 January 2009 against an unnamed person for incitement to racial hatred.
It was concluded that the case does not fall within the scope of Mr Gollnisch's political activities as Member of the European Parliament, concerning instead activities of a purely regional and local nature as a Rhône-Alpes regional councillor, a mandate to which Mr Gollnisch was elected by direct universal suffrage and which is distinct from that of Member of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (BG) I defend the privileges and immunity of Bruno Gollnisch and I think that the persecution he is being subjected to is of a purely political nature.
His immunity must be defended so that he can continue to carry out his duties as a fully-fledged Member of the European Parliament.
No debate was allowed before these most important votes (dealing with the fundamental rights of an MEP) were taken. 3.
If the European Parliament wants to be taken seriously by the voters in the future, then it must, unambiguously and without any compromise, stand up for the right of its own members and of all of Europe's citizens to freedom of expression.
This report is on the request to waive the privileges and immunity of our fellow Member, Mr Gollnisch, submitted to the European Parliament by the Prosecutor at the Court of Appeal of Lyon concerning the investigation carried out as a result of an action and claim for compensation brought, on 26 January 2009, by the International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism (LICRA) regarding the publication of a press release on the site of the Front National Group in the Rhône-Alpes Regional Council, of which Mr Gollnisch was president.
Taking into account established practice in this Parliament, given that the application for parliamentary immunity is misused in this case, and in the light of the Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I agree with the rapporteur's position and am voting in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of our fellow Member, Mr Gollnisch.
in writing. - I voted to oppose the removal of the Parliamentary immunity of Bruno Gollnisch because: 1.
No debate was allowed before the votes on this issue, which affect the fundamental rights of an MEP. 3.
The proposal to lift Bruno Gollnisch's immunity (and the politically motivated decision to lift it) were inconsistent with the proposal to allow the German MEP Elmar Brok to retain his immunity from prosecution for an (alleged) greed offence of tax evasion.
It is equally clear that, in the increasingly intolerant atmosphere of Political Correctness that is permeating the Parliament, some MEPs are more equal than others.
Thirdly, Bruno Gollnisch has given an explanation of the publication of the incriminated press release by his political group in the Rhône-Alpes Regional Council.
Having considered all the arguments, the Committee on Legal Affairs recommends that the European Parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of Bruno Gollnisch.
Using a judicial procedure to try to prevent Members of Parliament from expressing their point of view on matters of legitimate public interest and concern and from criticising their political opponents is unacceptable in a democratic society and constitutes a breach of Article 8 of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Union, which aims to protect its members' freedom of expression.
in writing. - I support the waiver of Bruno Gollnisch's immunity so that he can stand trial for the offence of incitement to racial hatred.
If Mr Gollnisch is charged over a press release written by the political office of the Front National, then of course this activity should be seen as falling within the scope of his EU mandate.
Had Mr Gollnisch made the same statement in a part-session of the European Parliament or in one of his committees, would the same argument be being made?
The Prespa Lakes basin (Prespa Park) is shared between Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) and Albania.
The first is a Member State of the European Union, the second is a candidate for EU accession and the third is a potential candidate for EU accession.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, I am voting for this draft agreement.
I am in favour of consenting to the European Union's participation in the Agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area entered into by Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania.
I also support the objectives and the principles outlined in the agreement, which are based on the sustainable use of natural resources, a focus on the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, and the prevention, control and reduction of water pollution in the Prespa Lakes.
I also believe this park is important for the environment, for natural conservation and for a whole series of positive knock-on effects that could arise from this type of collaboration, not least the strengthening of good relations in the Balkans region.
I welcome the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union, Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), which aims to establish cooperation between all those sharing the Prespa Lakes basin, so as to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and the park's sustainable development.
in writing. - (PT) The Prespa Lakes basin (Prespa Park) is shared between Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania.
It is extremely important to establish a living habitat for the conservation of many rare and/or endemic species of flora and fauna, also as a nesting place for birds threatened at global level, and as a place with a wealth of important cultural and heritage assets.
in writing. - (PT) Prespa Park, or the Prespa hydrographic basin, shared between Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania, is extremely important for establishing a living habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic flora and fauna species, also as a nesting place for birds threatened at global level, and as a place with a wealth of important cultural and heritage assets.
Therefore, we vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - On February 2010, in the presence and with the participation of the European Union, Greece, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania signed the Agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the Prespa Park Area.
It is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare fauna and flora species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage.
The agreement to be signed by the European Union will contribute towards reaching some of the important objectives for protecting this area, defending the ecosystem and introducing the sustainable use of renewable energy.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report, because the purpose of this agreement is to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the Prespa Park Area, including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans, in accordance with international and EU standards.
The Prespa Lakes Basin (Prespa Park Area) is shared between Greece, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania.
The first is a Member State of the European Union, the second a candidate country for EU membership and the third a potential candidate country for EU membership.
The Prespa Park Area is a natural area of international importance owing to its biodiversity and geomorphologic, ecological, and cultural significance.
It is vitally important as a habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic flora and fauna species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage.
For these reasons, on 2 February 2010 these three countries signed the Agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area, with the participation of the EU, which also requires the consent of the European Parliament.
in writing. - I welcome this agreement on the protection and sustainable development of Prespa Park.
The Prespa Park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
in writing. - (PT) The basis of this report is the draft decision of the Council relating to the signing of the agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area; the Prespa hydrographic basin.
The European Union has longstanding legislation protecting its waters, namely the 2000 Water Framework Directive, which establishes the objective of protecting all waters - rivers, lakes, ground-waters and coastal waters - and which, in the case of shared hydrographic basins extending beyond administrative and political borders, provides for the coordination of efforts in order to achieve this objective.
The Prespa hydrographic basin is shared between Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) and Albania.
The FYROM is a candidate for EU accession and Albania is a potential candidate.
in writing. - (PT) The Prespa hydrographic basin is shared between Greece, Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Pursuant to this directive, in the case of a hydrographic basin that extends beyond the territorial limits of the Union, it is necessary to implement coordination efforts between the countries involved and for this reason, on 2 February 2010 the Agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area was concluded; the Commission was also involved, representing the EU.
For the above reasons, I voted to adopt this agreement.
in writing. - The Prespa Park area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
It is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare and/or endemic fauna and flora species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage.
For these reasons, the three countries concerned signed the Agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area on 2 February 2010, with the participation of the EU.
The purpose of the agreement is to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the Prespa Park area, including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans, in accordance with international and EU standards.
The European Union is equipped with long-standing legislation protecting its waters, of which the most important part is the Water Framework Directive.
The Prespa Park Area is a natural area of international importance owing to its geomorphology, ecology, biodiversity and cultural significance.
The text adopted today aims to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the Prespa Park Area, including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans, in accordance with international and EU standards.
The Agreement will contribute to the successful implementation of the Water Framework Directive, to protecting the environment, improving the living standards of local inhabitants and strengthening good neighbourly relations in a particularly sensitive area of the Balkans.
in writing. - Last year the Commission and the other EU institutions reflected on the fact that we have not met our biodiversity targets.
This is a deeply regrettable situation which must be changed, quickly and effectively, in order to protect biodiversity and the invaluable eco-services it provides us with.
in writing. - (PT) I am voting for Mrs Fraga Estévez's recommendation welcoming the European Commission's efforts toward the approval of the resolutions based on the Port State Measures Agreement by the Regional Fisheries Management Organisations (RFMOs).
I supported the recommendation because the European Union must send out a strong message against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing.
Mrs Fraga Estévez has welcomed the efforts made by the European Commission for the adoption of resolutions based on the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation's Port State Measures Agreement.
This is why we believe that Europe should set an example to all other countries operating in this sector, which end up gaining an advantage on international markets because they do not have to respect any of the limits imposed on our fishermen.
It is therefore important that all levels of government - from the regions and central governments right up to the European Union - should do everything in their power to bring in regulatory measures and legislative instruments that will help protect fish stocks, which is the only guarantee of the long-term sustainability of fishing activities.
I voted in favour of this parliamentary recommendation to the Council so that the Council may proceed, on behalf of the EU, to adopt the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing.
If implemented correctly by national bodies, this international agreement will be an important tool for ensuring the long-term protection of marine life and the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
This agreement provides for specific instruments to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing in EU territorial waters more effectively.
The instruments in this agreement could be applied not only to fishing vessels, but also vessels used for fishing related activities, such as transport vessels which may be used to carry fisheries products.
The fight against IUU fishing constitutes an essential component of the common fisheries policy and the EU should be able to foster international cooperation on this matter by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures.
Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is considered as one of the main threats to the resources of the fishing market where the European Union enjoys an important global position.
The agreement being proposed to the Council for adoption has been drafted precisely to meet these international requirements on preventing, deterring and eliminating illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing through the implementation of effective measures by the state where the port is located.
The global overview of this practice of IUU fishing can result in better monitoring of fishing activities overall.
It is more cost-effective in terms of organisation and implementation.
I voted in favour of the text presented by Mrs Fraga Estévez, to whom I should like to express my appreciation for the work carried out.
Indeed, I believe that the European Union should use every instrument at its disposal to prevent and combat illegal trade while at the same time preserving the fishing market, which has always been a robust pillar of the common fisheries policy.
It is therefore high time for stringent rules to be adopted and, above all, respected.
Let us not forget that Europe - which is ranked third among the world's fishing powers - has been working for years to ensure that Member States and third countries respect the rules, in order to guarantee a sustainable fishing market and protect the marine environment from possible damage.
in writing. - (PT) I agree with the draft Council decision on the approval, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing.
To guarantee this effectiveness, it is necessary for these measures to be applied harmoniously by the Member States by controlling the unloading of boats, transhipments and other operations performed at their ports.
in writing. - (PT) Illegal fishing is a phenomenon that endangers all the measures that the international community and the European Union in particular have taken to allow robust and dynamic fishing activity to be balanced with the necessary replenishment of fish stocks.
In 2007, the Committee for Fisheries of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) agreed to draw up a legally binding international instrument on port state measures to deter illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
In 2001, the United Nations Organisation for Food and Agriculture (FAO) created an International Plan of Action to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing (IPOA-IUU).
The preservation of natural resources, particularly marine resources, is a constant concern of the European Union, which seeks to prevent illegal fishing with all the means at its disposal.
It has therefore closely followed all the measures approved by the FAO, playing an active and constructive role, not least in drawing up the agreement adopted at the 36th session of the FAO Conference held in Rome 18-23 November 2009.
This agreement was approved at the 36th session of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Conference held in Rome in November 2009, rounding off a debate process that had been preceded by a set of other agreements and codes of conduct adopted over the last two decades under the umbrella of the FAO.
Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing constitutes a global threat to the sustainable exploitation of live aquatic resources.
Therefore, the fight against IUU fishing must be a central concern of any fisheries policy, as well as an essential element of international fisheries management of at the competent forums.
Experience proves the good cost-effective relationship and the crucial role played by port state measures, in conjunction with other instruments, in the fight against IUU fishing.
Therefore, we voted in favour of this report.
This agreement was approved at the 36th session of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Conference held in Rome in November 2009, rounding off a debate process that had been preceded by a set of other agreements and codes of conduct adopted over the last two decades under the umbrella of the FAO.
Therefore, the fight against IUU fishing must be a central concern of any fisheries policy, as well as an essential element of international fisheries management of at the competent forums.
Experience proves the good cost-effective relationship and the crucial role played by port state measures, in conjunction with other instruments, in the fight against IUU fishing.
Therefore, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - In November 2009, the FAO Conference approved the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing that may help to minimize this type of fishing and ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems, as well.
As the European Union is one of the main representatives of international fisheries and one of the main global markets for fishery products, it is suitable and appropriate to promote the adoption of such proposals by the European institutions, too.
It covers not only fishing vessels, but also vessels used for fishing related activities, such as transport vessels which may be used to carry fisheries products.
I voted for this report on the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, because I believe that this type of fishing implies a serious global threat to living aquatic resources.
I am therefore voting for this report on an agreement whose established goals are to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing by applying effective measures in the port state and, in this way, to enable long-term conservation, and the rational and sustainable exploitation of marine ecosystems.
As of 31 January 2011, 23 FAO Members had signed the Agreement and two instruments of accession had been deposited.
As the European Union is a major player in international fisheries and one of the main global markets for fishery products, the rapporteur proposes that Parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the Agreement and firmly supports and encourages the European Commission to continue to push for the adoption of these proposals.
It also supports an expanded definition of IUU fishing to include a wide range of unregulated fishing operations.
I therefore voted for this report.
The Agreement is a vital tool in ensuring that the EU is well equipped to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing in our waters.
Ireland, and in particular Ireland South, has a thriving fishing industry and this Agreement will help to fight against IUU fishing as one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
It is incredibly important that the EU has participated in this process from the start and has played an active and constructive role in the drafting of the Agreement, as the fight against IUU fishing constitutes an essential component of the common fisheries policy.
Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing constitutes a serious obstacle to sustainable development in so far as it may affect 'living aquatic resources'.
The Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing has been concluded, under the aegis of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), and it requires European Parliament approval to be permanently binding for the Union, so I voted in favour of concluding this agreement, as it is a central point of the common fisheries policy.
It is worth reminding ourselves that illegal fishing is still one of the greatest threats to sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and is as great a threat as intensive fishing.
in writing. - Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
The fight against IUU fishing is an essential component of the common fisheries policy, and the EU should be able to foster international cooperation on this matter by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures.
The EU is a member of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and of 13 regional fisheries management organisations (RFMOs).
Port state mechanisms adopted within RFMOs have been implemented through EU law, which also provides for comprehensive rules on access to port services, landings and transhipments of fisheries products by third-country vessels in EU ports, and cooperation and assistance mechanisms between the EU and third countries.
Illegal fishing represents one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
The fight against this form of exploitation constitutes an essential component of the common fisheries policy and the EU should be able to foster international cooperation on this matter by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures.
in writing. - Port State Measures are an important tool in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing.
IUU fishing is an international criminal activity which is damaging our marine ecosystems, threatening our food security, and ruining the livelihoods of those in the legitimate fishing industry.
in writing. - (PT) Preventing, deterring and eliminating illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing is a fundamental priority for the success of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
The objective of the agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate IUU fishing through the use of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
IUU fishing continues to be one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources, and the EU has had an active and constructive role in the preparation of the present draft agreement.
In view of these considerations, I regard the agreement mentioned as an important contribution to the current international fight against IUU fishing and I am voting in favour of its approval.
in writing. - (LT) Although Lithuania is small, the fishing sector plays an important economic and social role for small communities in my country.
Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing poses a major threat to the sustainability of fishing in Lithuania.
According to the Pew Environment Group, unreported fishing costs Lithuanian fishermen more than EUR 1.1 million every year.
This is a huge sum of money given the size of my country and the fact that these problems can be avoided.
The Internal Market is without doubt the most important instrument that the European Union has to foster growth in the wake in the recent financial crisis.
This is why they must also have access to effective remedies if they intend to make a claim against another citizen or business that endangers these rights.
Today, the European Union has instruments in place to enable cross-border claims and the mutual recognition of judgments of national courts.
Establishing an effective system for the freezing and disclosure of debtors' assets, and stepping up cooperation between enforcement authorities in the Member States, are the best ways of filling these gaps.
That is why I voted in favour of Mrs McCarthy's report.
This report is important in terms of extending the Single Market to the area of cross-border pre-financing.
The reason for a bank refusing to give mortgages to anyone other than residents of the same Member State (even when the relevant bank is a multinational and is represented in a number of Member States by subsidiaries or branches) is that, in the event of a default on the loan, the bank is obliged to proceed with a forced execution procedure in accordance with lex rei sitae (the law of the state where the property for which the mortgage has been arranged by the lending bank is located) and not with the law of the state where the creditor has its registered office.
If a 28th regime procedure is going to be instituted, in keeping with this report, this would facilitate cross-border credit-based transactions.
A regulation providing for free-standing remedies that would allow interim measures to be ordered before, during and after the main proceedings will represent significant progress for European citizens in the fight against these dishonest debtors.
The burden of proof should also rest with the applicant, who should submit proper evidence of the legal plausibility (fumus boni juris) and urgency (periculum in mora) of a case.
We must strike a balance between protecting creditors and protecting the rights of debtors to avoid any arbitrary situation.
Even when the courts have delivered a judgment, in practice it is often difficult for creditors to recover debts if no information is available on the whereabouts of the debtor and his assets.
It is even more difficult when the debtor is domiciled in another Member State.
At present the number of cross-border debts successfully recovered is particularly low, and the cost of cross-border debt recovery can be prohibitive and can deter parties from engaging in legal proceedings.
In order to improve debt recovery within the European Union and thereby protect consumers more effectively and encourage trade between Member States, the Commission must propose new legislation on the freezing and transparency of debtors' assets.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report, because it tables a range of measures that will help to prevent rogue traders and other debtors from evading their responsibilities by transferring their assets to other jurisdictions, thereby denying the creditor effective enforcement of the judgment in the Single Market.
Therefore, I congratulate the rapporteur and believe that these are necessary measures, ensuring greater legal certainty and security, and also defending a better functioning of the Internal Market.
However, obtaining a legal judgment is only part of the process.
In the Internal Market created by the European Union, it is becoming increasingly necessary to defend the rights of consumers, particular those lacking adequate resources.
However, obtaining a judgment is only one part of the process.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because the EU has legislation in place to enable cross-border claims and the mutual recognition of judgments of national courts, including the Brussels I Regulation, the European Enforcement Order, the Small Claims Procedure and the Order for Payment Procedure.
The European Institutions have drawn attention to the need for an effective regime for freezing and disclosure of debtors' assets.
in writing. - (CS) I am personally in favour of the European Order for the Preservation of Assets and the European Order for the Disclosure of Assets becoming part of EU law.
in writing. - I welcome this report which, if followed through by the Commission, should help victims of fraud.
European legislation allows for cross-border claims, as well as the mutual recognition of the decisions of national courts, but the current procedure for cross-border debt recovery is arduous and prohibitively expensive.
Freedom of trade and the smooth operation of the Internal Market in the EU come with rights and obligations attached.
Therefore, I voted in favour of this report, in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission to table legislative proposals on measures for the freezing and disclosure of the assets of debtors and alleged debtors in cross-border cases.
Therefore, I voted for this report.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report because millions of citizens of the European Internal Market need effective legal means of asserting their claims against other citizens or against enterprises.
Moreover, to guarantee effective enforcement the courts must be able to order the disclosure and freezing of the debtor's assets within the context of measures to provide interim legal protection.
This report signifies an important step against swindlers and in favour of the citizens and enterprises of the European Internal Market.
The more than 500 million European citizens and their businesses must have the right to effective enforcement of judgments.
in writing. - I support this own-initiative report because it supports the creation of a European Order for the Preservation of Assets and a European Order for the Disclosure of Assets.
in writing. - (NL) I cannot support discharge being granted to the European Commission or to the other institutions and bodies.
That impact assessment must be carried out independently, not by the European Commission itself.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge to the European Commission because, despite the difficulties in managing these funds, the result obtained by the Court of Auditors shows objective improvements.
The greater audit transparency and the improved performance shown by all those involved in the management of European funds are the two main reasons that lead me to support this discharge.
This was therefore an opportunity for Parliament to give new impetus and vitality to a procedure that is not always taken seriously.
The financial crisis that is currently shaking Europe also has implications for the EU budget.
We cannot tolerate any scandal or mismanagement of expenditure.
I welcome the continuous improvements made in the last few years by the Court of Auditors with regard to the performance of all those in charge of funds.
The transparency, sound management and responsibility of all the entities involved must always be a priority and example of the European Union.
However, there is still a need to create real Member State responsibility with regard to their role in the shared management of Union cohesion funds, whilst it remains essential to introduce a system for analysing the viability of data submitted by national agencies and a mandatory national management declarations system.
It is crucial that the Member States take responsibility for the proper use of EU funds, and develop serious and transparent control and simplification policies.
By adopting this decision the European Parliament grants the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 and sets out its comments in related documents.
I feel that it is necessary to simplify and reduce public procurement rules in order to reduce the overall incidence of errors.
Governance problems between the Financial Regulation and the cohesion regulations can be avoided by better alignment of eligibility rules across various policies.
Simplification, in particular in connection with the revision of the Financial Regulation, needs to ensure stable rules and management schemes in the long term.
I regret that in considering the implementation of the budget for the 2009 financial year, the Court of Auditors has again chosen to focus on energy and research policies rather than on transport policy.
in writing. - I strongly believe this report indicates the need for the Commission to undertake a thorough spending review in order to identify possible savings which would reduce pressure on the budget during this period of austerity.
in writing. - I voted against the proposals to discharge the Commission of its obligation to report on its expenditure because the report was unclear.
However, this may not be at the expense of rank-and-file workers in the Commission, as was suggested in Paragraph 81.
in writing. - This grants the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009, and sets out its observations in the resolution that forms an integral part of the Decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009, Section III - Commission and executive agencies, and in its resolution on conclusions concerning the special reports issued by the Court of Auditors.
Under Article 17(1) of the Treaty on European Union, the Commission shall execute the budget and shall do so, under Article 317 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in cooperation with the Member States, on its own responsibility, having regard to the principles of sound financial management.
in writing. - (SK) The Court of Auditors estimates that financial irregularities or even possible embezzlement of resources in 2009 account for 2-5% of all payments.
We are expected to approve the accounts of the 27 European agencies, although I suspect that Europe would be better off without these agencies.
That report drew attention to the significant problems evident in the sugar sector since it was reformed in 2006 and to the problems that former sugar producers now face.
The sugar plants played an important role in the agricultural sector, particularly in Ireland, where there were processing plants in Cork and in Carlow, and it could be argued that the reform put an end to the sugar sector in Ireland.
As stated in the report, insufficient information was provided about the impact on the processing regions, the impact of quota refusals on local economies, the jobs that would be lost and the distribution of compensation.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report.
These special reports are of great importance when reflecting on and changing and adapting programmes and projects because they can result in a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources.
On the basis of these reports, the Commission can take prompt action to remedy most of the shortcomings noted by the Court of Auditors.
I voted in favour of granting 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the European Union because I take the view that the funds have been managed in a transparent and, overall, efficient way, including in the light of the particular circumstances that the European economy encountered in the period in question.
These special reports are of great importance when reflecting on and changing and/or adapting programmes and projects, because they can result in a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources.
I appreciate the positive attitude of the Commission to these processes and its willingness to take prompt action to remedy most of the shortcomings noted by the Court of Auditors in these reports.
Unfortunately these reports do not always receive the political attention they deserve, even though they are of great importance when reflecting on, changing and adapting programmes and projects because they can result in a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources.
Today's text underscores once again our appreciation of the positive attitude of the Commission and its willingness to take prompt action to remedy most of the shortcomings noted by the Court of Auditors in the reports in question.
The Secretary-General of the European Parliament certified his reasonable assurance that Parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework put in place provides the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying operations.
I agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary for Parliament, along with all Union institutions, to find the most cost effective ways of using financial and staff resources, including possible savings, as well as electronic tools and methods, to provide efficient services.
I believe that the Secretary-General of the European Parliament must propose arrangements to ensure that use of the general expenditure allowance is transparent in all cases and that it is used for the purposes intended.
I also agree that Parliament should only have one workplace in the same location as the other Union institutions.
Currently the decision to change this situation - and to make some EUR 160 000 000 of savings annually, as well as to considerably lessen Parliament's carbon footprint - lies exclusively with the European Council.
I voted in favour of granting Parliament discharge in respect of its 2009 budget because I take the view that, overall, the resources have been managed wisely.
In view of the current economic situation, the European Parliament has a duty to set an example in terms of cutting costs.
The resolution also calls for a long-term review of Parliament's budget with a view to reducing costs.
There is no question of choosing between Strasbourg and Brussels in this instance, since according to the Treaties that founded our Union in the beginning, Strasbourg is the rule and Brussels the exception.
The report of the Secretary-General on Parliament's preliminary draft estimates for 2011 itself draws attention to the huge annual costs arising from the geographical split of Parliament, estimated at some EUR 160 000 000, which accounts for 9% of Parliament's total budget.
It is true that at present the decision to change this situation, and in doing so to make some EUR 160 000 000 of savings per year, whilst at the same time considerably lessening Parliament's carbon footprint, lies solely with the Council.
I voted for the report on discharge of the European Parliament budget 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
I believe that it would be useful to review the European Parliament budget in the long term, in order to reduce costs and create resources for the efficient functioning of the Parliament in the context of its increased competences arising from the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - (SV) I would like to emphasise that, as a public institution, the European Parliament must strive to demonstrate as much openness and transparency as possible.
I also believe, particularly in view of the current economic situation, that Parliament must review its expenditure and identify savings and ways to increase efficiency.
Parliament ought to have a more in-depth debate on these issues, which is why I would like to provide more room for the discharge debate.
I also have a positive view of the principle that the European Parliament should have a common air miles system to provide the benefit of cheaper air travel.
Finally, I do not believe it is wrong for Parliament to award cultural prizes.
I therefore believe that this prize should be abolished.
in writing. - On the discharge Report of the European Parliament for 2009, I voted in line with my political Group against paragraph 143 on airmiles.
Paragraph 119 is more comprehensive and more practical for implementation purposes.
We would like to emphasise that, as a public institution, the European Parliament must strive to demonstrate as much openness and transparency as possible.
We also believe, particularly in view of the current economic situation, that Parliament must review its expenditure and identify savings and ways to increase efficiency.
Parliament ought to have a more in-depth debate on these issues, which is why we would also like to provide more room for the discharge debate.
We also have a positive view of the principle that the European Parliament should have a common air miles system to provide the benefit of cheaper air travel, even though we find it difficult to see how this could be implemented in practice.
Finally, we do not believe it is wrong for Parliament to award cultural prizes.
We therefore believe that this prize should be abolished.
in writing. - (LT) I abstained from the vote on this document, although the audit of the Court of Auditors states that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2009, all the institutions satisfactorily operated the supervisory and control systems required by the Financial Regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error.
The Secretary-General also certified, on 2 July 2010, his reasonable assurance that Parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework put in place provides the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying operations.
I believe that the current financial situation necessitates that the Parliament, along with all Union institutions, finds the most cost effective ways of using financial and staff resources, including possible savings, as well as electronic tools and methods, to provide efficient services.
We need to carry out a long-term review of the European Parliament budget and determine the money that can be saved in the future, in order to reduce costs and find the funds to enable Parliament to operate efficiently as one of the legislative bodies.
I would also point out that citizens have the right to know how the money they pay in taxes is spent and how the Union's institutions and political bodies use the powers they are given.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Liberal Party is opposed to paragraph 112.
in writing. - (DE) As regards paragraph 129 of the report on the '2009 discharge: EU general budget - European Parliament', which concerns the 'voluntary pension fund', I wish to state that I am categorically voting against this because it involves using taxpayers' money to finance pension funds for Members of the European Parliament (paragraph 129(i)).
It is a good thing for the managers of the Fund to be called upon to adopt a more prudent and balanced investment strategy (paragraph 129(iii)).
It was a good thing for the managers of the Fund to be called upon to adopt a more prudent and balanced investment strategy (paragraph 129(iii)).
On the other hand, the ICT department should propose specific measures for replacing hard copy administrative documents with environmentally-friendly, electronic versions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as the general idea of cost efficiency in the EU is brought up.
in writing. - (DE) I cannot vote for the discharge of the European Parliament budget on the basis that the wandering circus between Brussels and Strasbourg alone is unsustainable for taxpayers.
in writing. - Among other things, the adopted text establishes that the EP takes note of the budgetary constraints many Member States face as a result of the financial and economic crisis and the need to critically review potential savings at all levels including at Union level; and, in light of this situation, stresses that real savings could be achieved if Parliament only had one workplace in the same location.
The audit carried out by the Court of Auditors indicates that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2009, all the institutions satisfactorily operated the supervisory and control systems required by the Financial Regulation, and the transactions tested were free from material error.
On 2 July 2010, the Secretary-General certified with reasonable confidence that Parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework put in place provides the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying operations.
I totally disagree with this recital, which proposes a new system for interpretation services for 'working groups'.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and agreed that the European Parliament should postpone its decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Council for the financial year 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Council must provide Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control with comprehensive written answers, as well as all the required documents, by 15 June 2011 at the latest.
Therefore, I agree with the rapporteur regarding his decision to postpone the decision on discharge of the Council's accounts until the latter supplies the information and documents requested by the rapporteur and also a complete list of budget carryovers.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because it postpones its decision on granting the Secretary-General of the Council discharge in respect of the implementation of the Council budget for the financial year 2009.
Secondly, the Council refused to provide a written answer providing Parliament with the information and documents requested from the Council in the annex to a letter of 14 December 2010 signed by the rapporteur.
Thirdly, Parliament has not received fundamental documents from the Council, such as the full list of budgetary transfers.
As required each year, the European Parliament has delivered its opinion on whether or not the Union budget has been properly implemented by the various agencies and institutions who are responsible for it.
This is an important prerogative of Parliament, as illustrated for example by its influence on the resignation of the Santer Commission in 1999.
The institutions whose activities are audited by Parliament through the Committee on Budgetary Control, of which I am a member, are obliged to cooperate with that committee, for example by providing it with all the documents that are needed to ascertain that public money is being properly used.
Postpones its decision on granting the Secretary-General of the Council discharge in respect of the implementation of the Council budget for the financial year 2009; 2.
in writing. - I supported Parliament's decision to postpone granting discharge to the Council as I believe the Council has not provided Parliament with sufficient information regarding its accounts.
The decision to grant discharge will be taken at a later date, when sufficient information has been provided.
In its conclusions it did not make any significant observations relating to the Court of Auditors.
I welcome the audit strategy of the Court of Auditors for the period 2009-2012 and support its priority goals - maximising the overall impact from its audits and increasing efficiency by making best use of resources.
I expect the Court of Auditors to demonstrate the progress in this direction.
I agree with the rapporteur that in future the Court of Auditors must include more complete information in its reports on the agencies, in particular as regards the conclusions of internal auditors' reports.
I welcome the measures the Court of Auditors is taking to reform and continuously improve its role in line with Parliament's call for its assessments and audits to have a broader and deeper impact, and for its data to be more reliable.
I welcome the exhaustive analysis carried out by an external consultant, confirming that the financial statements of the European Court of Auditors give a true and fair picture of its financial situation, and also that funds were correctly used for their intended purposes.
I therefore congratulate the Court of Auditors on its excellent performance in 2009 and agree with the rapporteur with regard to all his conclusions.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because the Secretary-General of the Court of Auditors is granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Auditors budget for the financial year 2009.
It is also important that the Court of Auditors is urged to consider the possibility of reorganisation, so that some members would be responsible for certain policy areas and other members for groups of Member States, if national audit authorities are unable to control expenditure from the Union budget effectively.
I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2009, Section V - Court of Auditors.
in writing. - I voted for this report and in doing so welcome the audit strategy of the Court of Auditors for the period 2009-2012 and support its priority goals (maximising the overall impact from its audits and increasing efficiency by making best use of resources).
I expect the Court of Auditors to report on the steps taken to implement this audit strategy as well as to demonstrate the progress in this direction using the Key Performance Indicators (KPI), in particular with the introduction of KPI 1 to 4 in 2010.
in writing. - This grants the Secretary-General of the Court of Auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Auditors budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Secretary-General of the Court of Auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Auditors budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament is concerned by the decrease of detailed information in the Court of Auditors' specific annual reports on the agencies and encourages the Court of Auditors in the future to include more complete information in its reports on the agencies, in particular as regards the conclusions of internal auditors' reports.
in writing. - (LT) I voted against the decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of budget of the European Economic and Social Committee for the financial year 2009.
On 11 March 2011, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) decided to open an investigation into dubious practices by the EESC's secretariat.
The EESC and must cooperate fully with OLAF and provide all necessary assistance to OLAF agents to carry out their investigation.
I believe that the European Parliament Committee on Budgetary Control, responsible for the discharge procedure, must follow up the issue closely in order to obtain additional information on the impact of the OLAF investigation and to take into account the outcome in the 2010 discharge.
in writing. - (BG) I did not support the discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2009, Section VI - European Economic and Social Committee.
I voted in favour of granting the European Economic and Social Committee discharge in respect of its 2009 budget because, despite the issues raised by the recent European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) investigation, I am confident that it is possible to clarify the aspects that were not transparent and to improve reporting procedures for the future.
It is with considerable concern that I note the whistle-blowing in the case of possible mismanagement of the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC), and that it is now the subject of a pending action of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
I agree with the rapporteur when he insists that both the EESC and OLAF keep the discharge authority informed about the progress and outcome of the case in question.
The European Economic and Social Committee is urged to carry out a comprehensive review of expenditure in 2011 in all areas of activity, in order to ensure that all expenditure pays off and it is possible to ascertain areas where savings might be made, which would reduce pressure on the budget in this period of austerity.
I am pleased that the Court of Auditors indicated in its Annual Report that the audit did not give rise to any significant observations as regards the EESC.
In 2009, the EESC had commitment appropriations available amounting to a total of EUR 122 000 000 (EUR 118 000 000 in 2008), with a utilisation rate of 98.02 %, which is above the average of the other institutions (97.69 %).
in writing. - In voting on this report I call on the EESC, and in particular on its Secretary-General, to cooperate fully with OLAF and to provide all necessary assistance to OLAF agents in carrying out their investigation in relation to allegations of maladministration.
in writing. - This grants the Secretary-General of the European Economic and Social Committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Economic and Social Committee budget for the financial year 2009.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants the Secretary-General of the European Economic and Social Committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament considers that the allegations presented to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) clearly affect the reputation of the Union as they refer to the internal functioning of one its institutions, the EESC, and relate to a serious malfunctioning by its secretariat.
I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Committee of the Regions (CoR) for the financial year 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur that CoR members must declare their financial interests, disclosing relevant information on declarable professional activities.
in writing. - (BG) I do not support the discharge in respect of the implementation of the Committee of the Regions' budget because this institution is only a consultative body.
I welcome the conclusions of the audit of the Court of Auditors, whose annual report states that the audit did not give rise to any significant findings.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Regions (CoR) is granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the CoR budget for the financial year 2009.
The CoR is urged to carry out a comprehensive review of expenditure in 2011 in all areas of activity, in order to ensure that all expenditure is beneficial and to ascertain possible savings, because this would reduce pressure on the budget in this period of austerity.
In 2009, the CoR had commitment appropriations available amounting to a total of EUR 88 000 000 (EUR 93 000 000 in 2008), with a utilisation rate of 98.37 %, which is above the average of the other institutions (97.69 %).
I would highlight, moreover, that in 2009 the Committee of the Regions had a total of EUR 88 million of available commitment appropriations (2008: EUR 93 million), with a utilisation rate of 98.37%, which is higher than the average of other institutions (97.69%).
in writing. - I voted for this report giving discharge to the Committee of the Regions (CoR), and I am pleased that, in our resolution, Parliament 'reconfirms its position that, in the interests of transparency, declarations of financial interests of members of all Union institutions should be accessible on the Internet via a public register; reminds the CoR of its request that CoR members declare their financial interests, disclosing relevant information on declarable professional activities and remunerated posts or activities; notes with satisfaction the CoR response on the matter, in particular the letter of the president of the CoR of 11 February 2011; [and] requests the CoR to follow up this issue in its Annual Activity Report'.
in writing. - This grants the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the Committee of the Regions budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (IT) With today's resolution, Parliament grants discharge to the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Regions for the implementation of the budget of the Committee of the Regions for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and endorsed the European Parliament's decision to grant the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2009.
I also agree with the rapporteur that there should be EDF budgetisation, which will strengthen the democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding and will provide more coherence in Union policy concerning ACP countries.
I also believe that, within the scope of the revision of the guidelines on budgetary support by the Commission, particular attention must be given to supervisory and control systems.
The Commission must strengthen monitoring and annual reporting on compliance.
in writing. - (BG) During a financial crisis, the European Union needs to focus its expenditure on dealing with the crisis.
I am not against the European Development Funds, but I think that, in order to support the other countries, the European Union needs to deal with its own problems first.
It therefore urgently needs to be integrated with the EU budget to enable increased democratic control, accountability and transparency of financing.
This report makes an exhaustive analysis of the budgetary situation of the eighth, ninth and tenth EDF, drawing attention to some important questions that urgently require the review and implementation of ex ante controls in the delegations and internal control systems of the partner countries, particularly with regard to public tender procedures.
Finally, this report shows once more that there is still a long way to go with regard to management of the EDF and their proper use, which is why I agree with all the rapporteur's conclusions and congratulate him on his work.
This is even more important now, when these countries are faced with enormous pressures - and even blackmail - from the EU to accept impositions in the form of the 'Economic Partnership Agreements' that threaten their interests and compromise the effectiveness of the support provided under instruments such as the European Development Funds (EDF).
The rapporteur maintains that the incorporation of the EDF into the Union budget will strengthen democratic control, accountability and transparency of financing.
We would stress the warning that this incorporation of the EDF into the EU general budget must not lead to an overall reduction in development spending with regard to the two current finance instruments.
As the rapporteur mentioned it, we would also stress the need to study and assess the best ways to increase destination countries' capacities for absorbing EDF aid, which immediately means the profound involvement of both governments and peoples in outlining and implementing programmes, and in setting priorities.
The report maintains that the incorporation of the EDF into the Union budget will strengthen democratic control, accountability and transparency of financing.
We would stress the warning that this incorporation of the EDF into the EU general budget must not lead to an overall reduction in development spending with regard to the two current finance instruments.
As the rapporteur mentioned it, we would also stress the need to study and assess the best ways to increase destination countries' capacities for absorbing EDF aid, which immediately means the profound involvement of both governments and peoples in outlining and implementing programmes, and in setting priorities.
I welcome the fact that Parliament, in its report, reiterates its support for EDF budgetisation, which will strengthen the democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding and will provide more coherence in Union policy in relation to the ACP countries.
The report refers to the Commission's statement to the effect that it wants to propose to incorporate the EDF into the Union budget during discussions on the next financial framework, and that it will keep Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control fully informed of this initiative.
It urges the Council and the Member States to respond positively to the Commission's proposal and to agree that the EDF will be fully incorporated in the Union budget from 2014 onwards, as part of the next financial framework.
in writing. - This grants the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth European Development Funds for the financial year 2009.
With today's resolution, Parliament grants the Commission discharge for the execution of the budget of the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2009.
I stress that Parliament notes that the EDF is not integrated in the EU budget, despite being the main instrument for providing Union development aid to the populations of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries as well as the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT).
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report and agree that the European Parliament should postpone its decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of budget of the European Medicines Agency for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors found errors in the procurement procedures corresponding to a significant amount of the Agency's total budget for the financial year 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency must improve the quality of its procurement procedures in order to put an end to the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors.
I agree that the Agency must inform the European Parliament of the steps it has taken since its inception to ensure the independence of its experts.
I voted against the authorisation to discharge the 2009 general budget of the European Medicines Agency.
I am therefore in favour of postponing the closure of accounts for the financial year 2009 so that further management checks can be carried out.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on discharge of the budget of the European Medicines Agency for the financial year 2009, since it contributes to scrutiny of how funds are used by the European institutions.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because it postpones the decision on granting the Executive Director of the European Medicines Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009 and postpones the closure of the accounts of the European Medicines Agency for the financial year 2009.
The shortcomings indicated in the report also need to be remedied, because the Agency is a source of important scientific advice, science-based recommendations, and best practice for medicine evaluation and supervision in the Union.
With today's vote Parliament has decided to postpone the closure of the accounts of the European Medicines Agency for the financial year 2009.
I therefore add my voice to the request for information made to the Agency, in which the Agency is also urged to inform the discharge authority, by 30 June 2011, of the measures taken and improvements achieved regarding all these worrying issues.
This is an important prerogative of Parliament, as illustrated for example by its influence on the resignation of the Santer Commission in 1999.
The agency's procurement procedures and criteria for recruiting staff have also attracted criticism.
in writing. - The report on the 2009 discharge for the European Medicines Agency provided for postponement of the discharge.
I voted in favour of postponing the decision on discharge for the 2009 financial year, as the Court of Auditors qualified its opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts for the 2009 financial year.
The Court of Auditors highlighted weaknesses in the management of fees, with significant delays in issuing recovery orders (up to 21 months), as well as weaknesses in the Agency's treasury policy and failings in its management of procurement procedures.
in writing. - This postpones Parliament's decision on granting the Executive Director of the European Medicines Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the 2009 financial year.
With today's resolution, Parliament postpones the decision to grant discharge to the Executive Director of the European Medicines Agency for the execution of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
I voted in favour of the Stavrakakis report proposing to postpone the decision on discharge for the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in respect of the 2009 financial year.
The Court of Auditors qualified its opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying its accounts for the 2009 financial year.
I consider that Members of Parliament need further evidence before they can propose to grant or refuse discharge to this agency.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Agency must improve its budgetary and recruitment planning in order to redress the lack of consistency between its budgetary and staff forecasting, and to make progress in ensuring, as far as possible, a realistic evaluation of tenders.
The Agency must inform the European Parliament of the actions taken to improve the programming and monitoring of its contracts, in order to avoid, in future, the deficiencies reported by the Court of Auditors.
The Agency must take all the measures necessary to implement the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors.
The agency's main tasks are to collect, analyse and publish objective, reliable and comparable information on the fundamental rights situation in the EU; to improve the comparability and reliability of data using new methods and rules; to carry out and/or promote research work and studies in the field of fundamental rights; to formulate and publish conclusions and opinions on specific issues, either on its own initiative or at the request of the European Parliament, Council or Commission; and to promote dialogue with civil society in order to make the general public more aware of fundamental rights.
I voted in favour of this document, because the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights is granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
The Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Court of Auditors has been able to obtain reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the financial year 2009 are in all material respects reliable and that the underlying transactions, taken as a whole, are legal and regular.
The Agency must take all necessary steps to improve the situation.
The resolution notes that the Court of Auditors reported on this issue in respect of the award of three framework contracts of a total amount of EUR 2 575 000, and stresses, in particular, that in these three cases the financial offers differed considerably both in unit prices and in the tenderers' estimates of the number of man-days necessary for implementation of the same scenario.
in writing. - This grants the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
With today's resolution Parliament grants discharge to the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the implementation of the Agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - (LT) I endorsed this report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy for the financial year 2009.
According to information provided by the Court of Auditors, the Joint Undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The Joint Undertaking is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
The Joint Undertaking's utilisation rate for payment appropriations was 65.3%.
I agree with the rapporteur that it is important to provide for the conditions under which unspent funds are transferred to the following year.
In view of the size of its budget, the Joint Undertaking should establish an audit committee.
I voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge in respect of budget of the Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy because the report shows that the accounts and the pertinent transactions are held to be reliable.
I therefore believe that, under the careful guidance of the Commission, the auditing system and budgetary management could be improved and that the Joint Undertaking could finish implementing its internal controls and financial reporting systems.
In addition to its other activities, the main tasks of the joint undertaking are to oversee the preparation of the site for the ITER project, to provide the ITER organisation with material, financial and human resources, to coordinate scientific and technological research and development activities in the field of fusion, and to act as an interface with the ITER organisation.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because the Court of Auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy is in a start-up phase and had not yet fully established its internal control and financial reporting systems by the end of 2009.
The Joint Undertaking must amend its Financial Regulation in order to integrate the Court of Auditors' recommendations made in its Opinion No 4/2008 on that Regulation.
I believe that further improvement is necessary in relation to the exceptions to budgetary principles, the role of the Internal Audit Service, the establishment of an audit committee, late payment of members' contributions, the rules on the award of grants and the transitional provisions set out in Article 133 of the ITER Financial Regulation.
in writing. - I voted to give discharge to the Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy.
I am of the opinion that, in view of the size of its budget and the complexity of its tasks, the Joint Undertaking should establish an audit committee, reporting directly to the Governing Board.
in writing. - I have voted AGAINST granting the Director of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the 2009 financial year.
Through today's resolution Parliament grants discharge to the Director of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy for the implementation of the Joint Undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009.
Parliament urges the Joint Venture to amend its Financial Regulation in order to integrate the Court of Auditors' recommendations.
I am voting for this proposal, because I agree with the discharge procedures, with suitable appropriations being proposed for each heading.
The priorities set out by Parliament must be fully respected in order to increase savings by exercising increasingly rigorous financial management.
Since the Committee on Budgetary Control proposes the adoption of this discharge, I agree with the rapporteur's recommendations and am voting for this report.
This type of support is illogical and prejudicial, as some people in Europe, in particular those working in the textiles industry in several of the southern countries, will end up paying for support for Pakistan that we should all be paying for collectively.
Presented after the unprecedented floods that devastated last summer a vast portion of Pakistan's territory, the Commission's proposal seeks to extend autonomous trade preferences to this country concerning 75 product lines of interest to Pakistan (mostly textile and clothing) in the form of exemption from custom duties, with the exception of one product (ethanol) for which a tariff-rate quota would apply.
in writing. - (BG) I fully support the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council introducing emergency autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan.
One of the most serious results of these measures could be in Portugal, where the textile and clothing industry represents 11% of exports and 160 000 jobs, and would be hit hard by subsidised competition from Pakistan.
The Commission's trade-based aid plan must go through a specific procedure: it must obtain Parliament's approval but also that of the WTO, since these trade preferences deviate from basic international trade rules.
I am also in favour of the idea that a quarterly report should be submitted on the application and implementation of the monitoring.
This report is on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council introducing emergency autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan.
In terms of humanitarian aid, the European Union always leads the way.
However, we have to ensure protection against aspects that could damage some European trade sectors, namely textiles.
These preferences may even give rise to a dangerous precedent.
We cannot forget that the current economic and financial crisis has placed those companies most exposed to globalisation in a vulnerable situation, and it is not acceptable that 'trade preferences' could have a detrimental effect on them.
We Swedish Social Democrats support the Commission's proposal to suspend all duties on certain imports from Pakistan for a limited time following the floods there last year.
As the purpose of these trade preferences is to try to support Pakistan's recovery and future development, we believe that they should be offensive and far-reaching without safeguard measures for the EU, particularly as they are to be for a limited time only.
As we have already said more than once, the tragedy Pakistan has suffered requires European solidarity.
However, this cannot be a pretext for putting the textile industry of several Member States, such as Portugal, at risk.
There are other ways of showing solidarity: more effective forms of aid, aimed at re-establishing the affected areas and improving the living conditions of the affected people; based on a policy of effective and lasting development cooperation and aid, which supports the integrated and sustainable development of local communities.
On the other hand, they damage the textile industry and the countries and regions most dependent on it.
While it is true that there is no way the measures proposed by the Commission can be a pretext for new job losses and increased exploitation in European industry, at the same time, we cannot ignore the objective difficulties that they will create.
in writing. - (PT) This is just another example of defending the interests of European Union's large companies and financial institutions, at the expense of industry in the countries with the most fragile economies.
It is a serious blow for a sector that has been hit hard by the liberalisation of world trade; that is concentrated in regions with high levels of unemployment and poverty, and little economic diversification, such as several regions in northern and central Portugal.
Presented after the unprecedented floods that devastated last summer a vast portion of Pakistan's territory, the Commission's proposal seeks to extend autonomous trade preferences to this country concerning 75 product lines of interest to Pakistan (mostly textile and clothing) in the form of exemption from custom duties, with the exception of one product (ethanol) for which a tariff-rate quota would apply.
However, although the autonomous trade preferences would be extended to Pakistan for 3 years, a full impact assessment of the proposed measures has not been carried out by the Commission prior to the adoption of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - I very much regret that, during the vote on autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan, Parliament agreed to reduce the length of the benefits to one year, thus reducing significantly any gain to Pakistan.
in writing. - As is known, after the unprecedented and devastating floods in Pakistan in July and August 2010, the European Council at its meeting on 16 September mandated Ministers to agree urgently a comprehensive package of short-, medium- and longer-term measures which will help underpin Pakistan's recovery and future development.
The draft regulation extends autonomous trade preferences to Pakistan by suspending for a limited period of time all tariffs for certain products of export interest to Pakistan.
A list of 75 dutiable product lines of importance for Pakistan's exports has been established (mainly textile and clothing).
in addition to promising over EUR 415 million in immediate aid, the EU is also responding to the flood disaster in Pakistan by means of exceptional trade measures to boost Pakistan's exports.
The European Commission proposed a package of 75 tariff lines relating to Pakistan's main export sectors in the areas worst affected by the floods.
In the EU's assessment, granting these trade preferences should only cause limited adverse effects on the Internal Market and should not affect negatively the least developed members of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The European Union has never done this before and nor have other countries.
Even if the advantages given to Pakistan were a kind of 'prize' for its role in Afghanistan, I believe using trade preferences as a political instrument establishes a dangerous precedent.
Moreover, the trade advantages given to Pakistan will be paid for by the European industries most affected, namely the textile industry of southern Europe, and also by the poor countries that export the same products to Europe, which will suffer from the diversion of European imports to Pakistan, for example Bangladesh or the countries of North Africa.
Fundamentalism is widespread in Pakistan across all levels of society - all the more so since the death of Osama Bin Laden - including among the students at the famous International Islamic University.
The period could potentially be extended following a thorough assessment of the impact on European textiles, to be presented by the Commission.
in writing. - The Greens welcomed from the start the idea of supporting Pakistan's efforts to overcome the hunger and misery following the floods.
However, our main criticism was that it was a measure focusing on a country affected by terrorism without naming this political agenda, and without embedding the measures in a set of measures concerning the political context.
The text has finally been referred back to the committee.
The proposal adopted today came about after the unprecedented floods that last summer devastated a vast portion of Pakistan's territory.
The final document intends to grant autonomous trade preferences to the country in relation to 75 product lines of interest (mainly textiles and clothing) in the form of exemption from customs duties, with the exception of one product (ethanol) for which a tariff rate quota applies.
The proposed measures should be welcomed as a perfect example of the synergies that the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has made possible.
The European Union and its Member States have already generously provided Pakistan with humanitarian aid, but the extension of trade preferences in this country is part of a larger package of measures that would address the medium and long-term economic consequences of the catastrophic floods.
Ensuring the recovery and future sustainable development of Pakistan is extremely important, not only for its citizens, but also for the security and stability of the region.
A stable and prosperous Pakistan that is not subject to extremist or fundamentalist tendencies is obviously in the interests of the European Union.
The natural disaster suffered by the people of Pakistan last August touched all of us and deserves the solidarity of the European Union.
The European Union must show its support for Pakistan and help to minimise the devastating effects of the floods, as it has done through its policy of humanitarian aid and international cooperation when other tragic events have occurred.
However, trying to use common trade policy to express this solidarity might have undesirable repercussions for the future, both in this specific case and in others that could arise.
At Internal Market level, the effects are negative for the production of European countries like Portugal.
Therefore, and also bearing in mind that an impact assessment must be encouraged to assess the repercussions of the agreement inside the EU, I voted in favour of Amendment 43, which rejects the European Commission proposal to grant preferences to Pakistan.
If Pakistan is granted trade preferences for textiles, as proposed in this report, Lithuania would find itself in a vulnerable position, as textiles account for almost 6% of all our exports.
Respect for human rights and democratic principles must be a fundamental element of EU trade policy.
As events in the last few weeks have shown, Pakistan remains a hotbed of terrorism and extremism.
The EU should be careful not to send out the wrong message.
The current system of foreign direct investment, governed by a myriad of overlapping and sometimes conflicting bilateral investment treaties (BITs) of the Member States has to be replaced - in a reasonable time span - by a new framework of modern EU investment treaties consistent with cross-cutting EU policy goals.
It is undoubtedly essential that, by way of an authorisation process, the Member States' existing BITs remain in place and that, under clear conditions, Member States be allowed to renegotiate existing BITs, finalise pending ones, and enter into negotiations for new ones.
Legal certainty will, however, remain a relative term as long as the transition of the investment protection regime is not completed, and given validity terms of existing BITs of Member States under international public law.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, foreign direct investment fell within the exclusive competence of the EU and became an integral part of the EU's common commercial policy.
I endorsed this report, which provides for a transitional period for this competence to be transferred to EU level, which in future will help ensure a high level of protection for investors against arbitrary actions by third countries.
Currently Member States comply with partly overlapping but often conflicting bilateral investment agreements with third countries, and this hampers the objectives of the EU's common commercial policy, and the formation of the image of the EU as a single trade area in transnational and global trade.
This report's most important objective is the smooth transition from investment policies pursued by Member States individually to a common EU investment policy, ensuring legal certainty for all parties, and agreements already concluded for participants in the transitional period, when the old legal framework is being replaced by the new regulation.
I supported this report by voting in favour because I believe that we need rules during the transitional period to ensure legal certainty and avoid conflicts and gaps in the law.
in writing. - (CS) The adoption of the approved regulation is necessary, for the current system, which is created through a large number of mutually overlapping and sometimes even conflicting bilateral agreements on investments concluded by Member States, must be replaced within a reasonable period of time by a new system of modern investment agreements concluded by the EU, which will be in line with the general goals of EU policy.
The policy has the important role of ensuring a high level of legal certainty in a period of transition.
I therefore wholly agree with the Commission proposal, which counts on coexisting agreements.
It is essential for existing Member State agreements on investment to remain in force on the basis of the approval procedure, and for Member States to be able to negotiate changes to them under clear conditions, to complete the ongoing negotiations and to begin negotiations on new agreements.
I also requested that the Commission should present a report to Parliament and the Council, no later than five years after this regulation enters into force, on the situation regarding re-examination of existing bilateral agreements, relating in particular to the number of bilateral agreements that the different Member States may have renegotiated.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, pursuant to Articles 206 and 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), foreign direct investment becomes the exclusive competence of the European Union.
At the moment, many bilateral agreements are in force and they now urgently need to be replaced by a new framework of EU investment treaties consistent with its cross-cutting political objectives.
This report is on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries.
Without questioning the need for the Member States' existing bilateral treaties to remain in force, I agree with the rapporteur's position in the sense of ensuring a high degree of legal certainty during the transition period, and also with the three reasons for withdrawing authorisation for a bilateral treaty: 'conflicts with the law of the Union', 'overlap, in part or in full, with an agreement in force with that third country and this specific overlap is not addressed in the latter agreement' and treaties that might 'constitute an obstacle to the development and the implementation of the Union's policies relating to investment'.
This is the foundation for this proposal for a regulation: in other words, applying Article 207(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provides for the exclusive competence of the EU in matters of foreign direct investment as part of the common commercial policy.
The importance of trade policy and, of course, of investment policy as instruments for promoting the interests of a country and its people according to its specific characteristics and conditions are all too clear.
Among other serious aspects, this regulation intends to give the Commission the power to withdraw authorisations, to ask Member States to negotiate or reject bilateral investment treaties (BITs) and to approve new BITs.
It is well known that the European Union has exclusive competence in matters of external trade policy, which is the basis for this proposal for a regulation.
It is founded on Article 207(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provides for the exclusive competence of the EU in matters of foreign direct investment as part of the common commercial policy.
However, in general, the European Commission's positions do not respect the interests of all the Member States equally.
The importance of trade policy and, of course, of investment policy as instruments for promoting the interests of a country and its people according to its specific characteristics and conditions are all too clear.
Among other serious aspects, this regulation intends to give the Commission the power to withdraw authorisations, to ask Member States to negotiate or reject bilateral investment treaties (BITs) and to approve new BITs.
in writing. - This report deals with international investment treaties with third countries.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because it is proposed that the Regulation should provide the faculty for the Commission to withhold an authorisation, to request Member States to renegotiate or terminate a Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT), and to have the Commission's approval for newly negotiated BITs.
That relationship will develop further as the Union exercises its competence in common investment policy with the main goal of creating the best possible investment protection system for all Member States' investors equally and equal investing conditions on third country markets.
As the new investment policy will be developed in view of the transitional validity of bilateral investment agreements concluded by Member States, it should acknowledge the rights of investors whose investments fall into the scope of those agreements and should ensure their legal certainty.
in writing. - (DE) Since the Treaty of Lisbon the Commission has had the exclusive power to negotiate and conclude bilateral investment agreements with third countries.
In order that this transfer of competence does not result in a hard landing for the EU, the Member States should continue to be able to guarantee legal certainty for investors during a transitional period.
in writing. - (RO) Investment agreements are still mandatory for Member States following the entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and they must be dealt with under the EU's exclusive competence in the area of direct foreign investments.
This proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council will authorise for all the investment agreements currently in force between Member States and third countries to remain in place.
Furthermore, the proposal also sets out the conditions under which Member States will be able to negotiate and conclude new bilateral investment agreements with third countries, regarded as an exceptional transitional measure.
in writing. - I voted for this report and welcome the fact that bilateral investment treaties are now part of the common commercial policy.
The Treaty of Lisbon has brought us to this point of banning any form of bilateral investment in support of another country and putting all the power in the hands of the Commission, an unelected body.
Certain developing countries have had to learn that the hard way.
For these reasons I decided to vote in favour of the report.
I voted for this report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries.
It is a case of applying Article 207(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provides for the exclusive competence of the EU in matters of foreign direct investment as part of the common commercial policy.
The transition to an EU investment policy, bearing in mind the risky and long-term nature of foreign direct investment, is a long and complicated process.
It is extremely important to ensure a high level of legal certainty during the transition period.
Since, by virtue of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the area of foreign direct investment is an exclusive EU competence, there is a need to provide the European Union with the necessary means to move from a disparate perspective to a harmonised approach.
As such, there is a need to find solutions enabling us to prevent legal uncertainty during the transitional period, but without risking the objectives guiding Union action.
in writing. - As we feared, the tight vote against us in the Committee on International Trade on the crucial Article 5 (review of Member States' existing bilateral investment treaties (BITs)) and Article 6 (the possibility of withdrawing authorisation for a BIT) of Carl Schlyter's report on 'Transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries' has been confirmed by the vote in plenary.
We had a roll-call vote on this and we will analyse whether we nonetheless captured some support in the ALDE Group.
However, we chose to reject the report (which was approved by 345 to 246 votes).
Pursuant to Article 207(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the EU has competences in respect of foreign direct investment (FDI), as this type of investment is directly related to the new common commercial policy.
The Treaty of Lisbon came into force at a time when many bilateral investment agreements with third countries were coming to an end and no transitional arrangements had been established to ensure an integrated move towards future agreements within the exclusive competence of the European Union.
I think it is a good idea to undertake a reliable evaluation of all the bilateral agreements currently in force with third countries, and to adopt a strategy common to all Member States.
The Georgian economy is beginning to recover following the double shock caused by the military conflict with Russia of August 2008 and the global financial crisis.
I endorse the allocation of EUR 46 million in financial assistance to Georgia, which will help reduce the short-term financial vulnerability still faced by the economy, while supporting reform measures aimed at achieving a more sustainable balance of payments and a more stable budgetary situation.
There is a fundamental contradiction in the European Commission's proposal to grant further financial assistance to Georgia: it was the Commission itself that pointed out that Georgia's economy was recovering after the conflict with Russia three years ago, thereby insinuating that there was no need to 'assist' the Georgian Government with further funds to help the national economy in addition to those already provided in recent years.
There are many economic, financial and employment-related problems in Europe and there are many areas which are forced to deal with crisis situations for which the institutions could do much more.
The Commission should move first of all to focus all possible efforts on solving the problems of our citizens.
Prior to adopting the decision, the Commission assessed Georgia's economic situation and the country's financial prospects in 2010-2011, focusing on the balance of payments and budgetary needs.
The Commission considers that the activation of the second part of the macro-financial assistance (MFA) pledged in 2008 is warranted.
in writing. - (CS) As a member of the European Parliament's delegation to the EU-Armenia, EU-Azerbaijan and EU-Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committees, I welcome the decision to provide Georgia with macro-financial assistance of EUR 46 million, in order to help stabilise the Georgian economy and cover needs in respect of the balance of payments stipulated in the existing IMF programme.
I consider it right and proper that EUR 23 million of this sum will be provided in the form of grants, and EUR 23 million in the form of loans.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome efforts to promote prosperity beyond the EU's borders, because I consider our aid important in order for some third countries to be able to tackle their balance of payments crisis and restore the sustainability of foreign debt.
Therefore, and bearing in mind the economic and social problems suffered as a result of the August 2008 armed conflict and the global financial crisis, I agree with the tabled proposal of additional macro-economic financial assistance for Georgia, with a view to supporting its process of economic stabilisation and covering the needs of its balance of payments.
I also believe that this macro-economic assistance will have a positive effect on Georgia's relations with Member States, in addition to the critical role it will play in the country's government properly applying reforms.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this report, because I believe that the mobilisation of the second part of the macro-financial assistance to Georgia is justified and relevant.
This is a European Commission proposal that provides for EUR 46 million in aid to this country and is the result of the armed conflict with Russia, a situation exacerbated by the global crisis.
As this is the second part of aid guaranteed in 2008, which is intended to enable Georgia to meet the financial agreements with global and European financial institutions, as well as to support the economic reforms in progress in this country, I agree with this aid and am voting for it.
It is important to bear in mind that the proposed financial assistance is intended above all to finance the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and its policy of structural adjustment: in other words, persisting with the same neoliberal policies that led to the economic and financial crisis that this country is facing.
The global financial crisis which broke out in autumn 2008 made the situation in Georgia even more complicated.
The proposed assistance - part of a comprehensive EU package of up to EUR 500 million - aims to support Georgia's recovery following the armed conflict with Russia, and also helps Georgia address the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis.
It is the duty of the European Union to continue helping Georgia, so that that country can develop and become a modern democracy, which could serve as an example to other countries in the region.
Only three European Union Member States are ranked above Georgia in this index.
This country has had notable successes in fighting corruption, which is a significant problem in all post-Soviet countries.
I am convinced that Georgia is an example to Caucasian region countries, and I have no fear in saying that this country can serve as an example to some EU Member States that currently lack the political courage to carry out reforms that would pave the way to growth and modernisation.
In solving problems associated with Georgia, we must not forget that 20% of Georgia's territory is still under occupation.
This country stands out from the other countries involved in the Eastern Partnership on account of the reforms it has carried out in every area.
Restrictions have been placed on the formalities necessary to start up in business.
It is in the European Union's vital interest to ensure stability at its eastern borders, which can be achieved through economic growth and political security.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council providing further macro-financial assistance to Georgia.
Georgia faces series financial problems following the armed conflict with Russia in 2008 and the impact of the global financial crisis.
Back in January of this year, the EU approved a EUR 46 million aid package for Georgia, of which EUR 23 million is to be paid as a loan and a further EUR 23 million in the form of a grant to the country.
The EUR 46 million forms part of an EU financial aid package worth around EUR 500 million which was approved by the EU back in October 2008.
This is significant support for a country loyal to European integration which will help mitigate two negative repercussions on the Georgian economy - the military conflict with Russia and the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - (PT) This European Union macro-financial assistance is intended to help cover Georgia's external finance needs, identified in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the context of the IMF stand-by arrangement for the sum of USD 1.17 billion, which has been in force since October 2008.
I voted for this report, because I agree with the financial assistance concerned and also with the need - in spite of financial assistance being controversial - to guarantee a model for supervising the implementation of this assistance that enables Parliament and other institutions to find out about how these funds are being spent.
in writing. - In line with our voting on macro-financial assistance (MFA) in the last parliamentary term, the suggestion was made that we abstain in this case because we do not think that MFA is very helpful so long as it is tied to whatever programme the International Monetary fund (IMF) is operating in the countries concerned.
The Greens/EFA Group has, in the end, voted in favour.
The adoption of today's report follows the position adopted at the first reading and confirms the view expressed by the Commission.
Bearing in mind that this financial assistance is one-off assistance of limited duration, I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council to grant additional macro-financial assistance to Georgia.
