The ESA regulations, which we adopted less than three months ago, give no specific role to the Council in the appointments of the chair and executive director of each ESA, which are made by the respective board of supervisors.
Well, the Council, as co-legislator, has agreed with Parliament to insert in these regulations provisions that aim to ensure that members of the board of supervisors - the management board - the chairperson and the executive director of each ESA are protected by, and bound to, strict independence so as to act solely in the interests of the Union.
I will not quote in full the provisions of those regulations, and more particularly Articles 42, 46, 49 and 52, but their spirit is clear.
The ESA regulations are subject to the staff regulations adopted by the EU institutions.
They also contain a number of key provisions that aim to ensure that the chair and executive director of each authority are selected in the most objective way, on the strict basis of the criteria set out in Articles 48 and 51 of the regulations.
As the honourable Members will be aware, the Commission is also entrusted, in recital 55 of the regulations, with the responsibility of drawing up a shortlist of candidates to steer the process of selecting the first chairperson of each authority.
Ladies and gentlemen, these appointment procedures were conducted with complete transparency and in full compliance with the regulations that created the authorities as well as other rules governing the appointment of the heads of the regulatory agencies of the Union.
Approximately 275 applications were received for the six posts I have just spoken about.
In addition, since Parliament and the Council decided, in Article 68 of the regulations creating these authorities, that the chairpersons and executive directors would be subject to the rules applicable to the staff of the institutions of the Union, the Commission has ensured that that is what is happening and that, in this area as in others, the regulations are being complied with.
I also endorse the intention of this Parliament to achieve the optimal gender balance at the head of these authorities.
I note in this regard that, in the latest process for the appointment of the executive directors, which is ongoing and has not yet been completed, two very able women are in contention for a post as executive director.
Parliament and the Council have enshrined this principle in the regulations creating the authorities, in particular in Articles 42, 46, 49 and 52, which Minister Győri referred to just now.
The composition of the boards of the authorities must fully respect your wishes and those of the legislator in general, and I will personally see to it that the heads of the national authorities are actually present at least, and I repeat, at least twice a year in accordance with Article 40 of the regulations that created these authorities.
I wish to reaffirm here that, for its part, the Commission will ensure that the intention of the legislator is fully respected and that these authorities work exclusively and solely in the interest of the European Union.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Győri, Mr Barnier, this debate right now is not a legal debate; it is a true political debate.
The statement made by the Commissioner is precise.
The Council will understand - it will have to understand - and the Commission will, too - possibly even of its own accord - why we are concerned.
These are clearly good people who have already shown in their jobs that they can do their work well, but the people that have been presented to us are not people who, on the basis of any authority that they may have demonstrated in their past work, can actually say to the national supervisory authorities where they would stand in the event of a conflict.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, thank you for being with us this evening.
Mrs Győri, you tell us that the Council has no say in the appointment of these officials, which is legally correct, but some Member States are lying in ambush.
Therefore, this Parliament is doing its work, in trying to ensure independence, resources and the resolve to move forward.
However, the simple fact is that, as has been pointed out, we will be demanding, we are going to sleep on the issue and take the necessary time to look in detail at what you have told us, each of you in turn, and we will take a decision with a clear conscience.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this is a question of making the best possible use of the possibilities provided by the law to actually provide strong financial supervision in Europe, and we have our doubts about whether these possibilities are in fact being utilised to the best possible extent in the institutions.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, the ECR welcomes the opportunity to discuss these issues in the Chamber this evening.
Moreover, we have been presented with only one candidate for each post - a totally undemocratic exercise.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, honourable Members, first let me answer the question which came up very often in this debate: will the Council agree to review the appointment procedure in the regulation?
I also know that Article 81 of the regulation also makes provision for the review by the Commission to be sent to the European Parliament and the Council by 2 January 2014 and every three years thereafter.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Madam President, the speeches delivered by the Commissioner and me were framed by our respective competences.
I tried to convince you that there are guarantees of independence and, in the creation of the budget, the task of the Council and Parliament, as the two institutions having financial responsibility, is to ensure that these institutions are in operating condition.
