As provided in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, a referendum took place in January 2011 which represented the final stage of the process leading to the independence of South Sudan from North Sudan.
South Sudan is an area with approximately 10 million inhabitants, covering almost a quarter of the land area of Sudan as currently constituted and possessing about three-quarters of its oil reserves.
Therefore, in 2010, the Council accorded Sudan a special allocation of EUR 150 million for the period 2011-2013.
The European Union must mobilise the entire panoply of instruments at its disposal to support South Sudan in the delicate post-referendum phase.
European Union aid to South Sudan should be commensurate with what the new state can effectively absorb.
We must avoid the situation in which future funding flows to Juba end up being improperly deployed or, even worse, feeding the existing high level of corruption. (SV) Mr President, Sudan is currently in a very sensitive phase ahead of independence day on 9 July this year, when Sudan will be divided into two states.
In this context, I would also like to emphasise how important it is that people are able to exercise their human rights and are able to talk and demonstrate freely.
The whole region is in need of democratic development and support from the European Union. (FI) Mr President, I would like to say here that it is very important that the European Union ensures that it promotes peace and the independence of these two states.
North Africa and the Middle East require a joint approach and we are convinced that Russia can play a fundamental role in this context.
Meanwhile, Russia must play its full part, especially in the field of fundamental rights. (FI) Mr President, an extremely important document has now been adopted and I think that it is vital that we continue dialogue with Russia.
It is sufficient to mention the questions of human rights and the right of association, or the ruthless use of natural resources to exert political pressure on other countries, such as those of the European Union.
The forthcoming EU-Russia Summit should be used to draw attention to the situation in Belarus.
However, we must warn Russia, at the highest level, that it is unacceptable to strengthen influence in a neighbouring country by exploiting a situation and negotiating with an authoritarian regime that does not represent the people.
Only the Belarusian people themselves can reach a decision on the country's integration processes and only under conditions of democratic self-determination. (DE) Mr President, I think we can argue for a long time about the extent of Russia's progress on the road to democracy.
However, on the other hand, it is always better to develop our cooperation with Russia, in particular, when we are calling on Russia to respect human rights or to improve environmental rights, if only because of its size.
If we can ensure that the cooperation is friendly, but also serious, and if we do not forget to make legitimate demands and highlight legitimate failings, we will be making a step in the right direction, not only in terms of the cooperation between Europe and Russia, but, most importantly, in terms of human rights.
This time, I think we have been too mild in our assessment of relations with Russia.
We know that the human rights situation in Russia is beneath contempt and we know that it is almost impossible for people to express their political opinions freely.
We also know that there are many people in prison precisely because they have tried to exercise their human rights.
Russia's WTO membership and free trade are in the interests of both the EU and Russia.
The EU needs to strengthen its Arctic policy.
My vote in favour this morning was therefore intended principally to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, which are great contributors to our economic system. (DE) Mr President, I am very pleased that we have discussed directory companies and their practices today.
This is a very important topic in the European Union.
Therefore, I would like to urge the Commission, once again, to consider an EU-wide ban on these misleading business directories. (SV) Mr President, in general, we devote far too little time in this Parliament to the problems experienced by small businesses.
I have voted in favour of the resolution because it is important for us in the European Union to make our opinion clear on this.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on Sudan and South Sudan: The situation after the 2011 referendum.
The Southern Sudan Referendum took place on 9-15 January 2011, with an overwhelming majority voting to establish an independent state of South Sudan, which is expected formally to declare its independence on 9 July 2011, which coincides with the end date of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA).
This will be a very important day for South Sudan, as the creation of the new state will raise many difficult challenges.
I welcome the resolution's call on the South Sudan authorities to promote the development of South Sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law and respecting human rights, in particular, women's and children's rights, and the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through regular free elections.
I therefore call on the future government of South Sudan to immediately take the necessary measures to help guarantee at least a minimum subsistence income, social guarantees and, above all, security for the populations of South Sudan.
I am sure that the European Union will have to play an important role in the fight against poverty and in the revitalisation of Sudan's economy.
I would therefore like to stress the importance of maintaining the Union's humanitarian aid to Sudan and to South Sudan.
The Southern Sudan Referendum took place on 9-15 January 2011, with an overwhelming majority voting to establish an independent state of South Sudan.
South Sudan is expected formally to declare its independence on 9 July 2011.
The European Parliament fully respects the outcome of the referendum as the expression of the democratic will of the people of South Sudan.
I welcome the European Parliament's call for the government of South Sudan to enact policies on foreign investment in the interest of the population, so that foreign investment in natural resources benefits the development of the domestic economy in order to combat poverty.
Money earmarked by the European Union for development aid should be used to support basic services, notably education and health, agriculture, food security and institutional capacity building, in order to ensure the development of South Sudan as a modern, pluralistic and democratic state, based on the principles of the rule of law and respect for human rights.
I warmly welcome Parliament's resolution on Sudan and South Sudan, which reiterates full respect for the referendum of January 2011, sanctioning the independence of South Sudan.
My group has been monitoring this issue and, in particular, that of Darfur, over the course of several parliamentary sessions, and successfully sponsored the candidacy of the Sudanese lawyer, Salih Mahmoud Osman, for the 2007 Sakharov Prize.
The awarding of the prize aimed to make the unconcealed outrage of the genocide in that country even more visible and to acknowledge the peaceful work of those who, against all odds, had not given up fighting for peace, solidarity and human rights.
The final results of the referendum of 9 January 2011 on the self-determination of South Sudan have confirmed, by an overwhelming majority, that the voters were determined to create an independent state.
As we warned at the time, the independence of Kosovo set a dangerous precedent in relation to imperialist intervention in the creation of artificial states, in line with its geostrategic interests of accessing and controlling markets, natural resources and workforces.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document because it calls on the South Sudan authorities to promote the development of South Sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law and respecting human rights, in particular, women's and children's rights, and the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through regular free elections, with protection of freedom of movement, freedom of association and freedom to express one's political views enshrined in both the constitution and law.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which calls on both sides in Sudan, in the run-up to independence day on 9 July 2011, to present concrete plans on the setting-up and/or reform of their institutions in order for the two states to be viable as of that date.
We respect the outcome of the referendum on the independence of South Sudan, scheduled to take effect on 9 July 2011, as an expression of the democratic will of the Sudanese people.
We agree, furthermore, that all the parties should engage in continued and constructive dialogue to address post-referendum issues, including common borders, citizenship arrangements for citizens both north and south, and the sharing of oil revenues.
The EU must maintain its humanitarian aid for Sudan and South Sudan even after 9 July 2011, and all political parties must work together to represent all the people of the country fully and to help build stable and democratic political institutions.
The conflicts in Sudan, specifically in the Darfur region, have claimed many victims over the years, particularly amongst the most disadvantaged people.
The EU is going to play an important role in future developments in that region and it cannot renounce its important role in bringing peace to the region.
in writing. - The southern Sudan referendum took place on 9-15 January 2011, with an overwhelming majority voting to establish an independent state of South Sudan.
In a referendum in January of this year, the people of South Sudan voted with an overwhelming majority in favour of independence and breaking away from the northern part of Sudan.
It is important for the EU to respect the right of self-determination of these people without any restrictions and to recognise the results of the referendum as an expression of the democratic will of the people of South Sudan.
As this motion for a resolution clearly meets these requirements, I have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on Sudan and South Sudan because the referendum that took place in South Sudan, in which the majority of residents voted in favour of the creation of an independent South Sudan state, is proof of the democratic will of its citizens.
I therefore welcome the EU decision to allocate EUR 200 million in aid to South Sudan in order to help the most vulnerable segments of the population.
It is important to carry out a constitutional review in South Sudan so that all political parties work together to represent all the people of the new country and help to build stable, democratic political institutions.
The results of the referendum in Sudan are an unequivocal indication of the desire of the people of South Sudan for independence, as they have been demanding for many years.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has been monitoring this issue and, in particular, that of Darfur, over the course of several parliamentary sessions, and successfully sponsored the candidacy of the Sudanese lawyer, Salih Mahmoud Osman, for the 2007 Sakharov Prize.
These plans will also have to deal with the difficult issue of borders in order to ensure that a peaceful and viable coexistence of the two states can be maintained.
Between 9 and 15 January 2011, the majority of South Sudan's population declared itself to be in favour of creating an independent state.
Faced with this new information, Parliament calls on the authorities of South Sudan - whose independence will be declared, starting from 9 July 2011 - to make efforts towards bringing together the essential foundations for establishing a democratic state anchored in human dignity.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - I am glad the EP welcomes the peaceful and credible conduct of both Sudan and South Sudan in the 2011 Southern Sudan Referendum, the efforts by all parties to the CPA and the commitment they have demonstrated to it; views this as a crucial step in implementing the CPA and as a positive sign for the peaceful coexistence of both countries; reiterates its full respect for the outcome of the referendum as the expression of the democratic will of the people of South Sudan; calls on both North and South Sudan actively to pursue the promotion of democratic governance and the establishment of long-term peace, security and prosperity for both countries, with respect for human, social and economic rights; calls on the South Sudan authorities to promote the development of South Sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law and respecting human rights, in particular, women's and children's rights, and the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through regular free elections, with protection of freedom of movement, freedom of association and freedom to express one's political views enshrined in both constitution and law.
The UN recently announced that at least 20 000 people have abandoned the town of Abyei and fled to the south, following the withdrawal of the North Sudanese army from the area.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on Sudan and South Sudan because I support all development efforts being made by the EU in order to restore peace and reconstruct this long-suffering area.
I consider that both proposals are necessary and will help in establishing South Sudan as an independent state and in any emergency that may arise.
I think that the European Union and Russia must intensify their negotiations on establishing a partnership and on introducing a comprehensive agreement concerning the political, economic and social system and also taking account of all the issues associated with democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the EU and Russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of Europe and beyond.
Russia's energy policy vis-à-vis Member States and countries in the common neighbourhood will show Russia's true readiness to follow the path of modernisation and democratisation.
I welcome the European Parliament's requirement that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political tool and that the principles of interdependence and transparency should be the basis of cooperation on energy security, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment.
In the case of EU-Russia relations, I welcome the achievements already made in respect of not just a common economic and cooperative space, but also of shared values.
I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on the EU-Russia Summit as I think that relations with Russia need to be strengthened, especially in the area of energy security.
The new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement must be comprehensive and legally binding and also include provisions on respect for human rights and the rule of law.
In the run up to the next EU-Russia Summit, which will take place on 9-10 June in Nizhny Novgorod, we are sending a clear message to the Member States: we must prioritise guarantees of respect for human rights over more ambitious agreements on trade, visas and cooperation.
The European Union must make it clearer to Russia that it should respect its international obligations and commitments.
The Russian Federation and the European Union have developed a close partnership, and the common fight against international terrorism stands as one of the many examples of this.
In this context, I supported the resolution adopted today on EU-Russia relations before the summit on 9 and 10 June which will seek to establish a new strategic agreement.
With this resolution, MEPs are sending a strong political signal to Russia: whilst greater economic, energetic, strategic and international cooperation between the EU and Russia is desirable, it should nonetheless be conditional upon efforts towards protecting human rights and civil liberties.
Nevertheless, there is no doubt that much remains to be done in this respect, and that the European Union and the Russian Federation not only share a historical, cultural and religious heritage, but that they also have common interests and challenges which warrant a closer relationship on many levels.
The European Union should continue to work to make this convergence possible and fruitful.
However, three years after the conflict with Georgia, Russia is still not respecting the agreements of 12 August and 8 September 2008 relating to the withdrawal of its forces from the occupied Georgian provinces of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and does not provide the European Union Monitoring Mission with free and total access to its territories.
I therefore advocate that the EU and Russia must step up negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on the mutual interdependence of the EU and Russia.
This agreement should be legally binding and comprehensive, and should encompass all areas related to democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human and fundamental rights.
As usual, the interests of the large economic and financial groups in Europe are at the fore in this resolution.
It is in this context that we must view the pressure put on Russia (which also occurs with several other countries) to join the World Trade Organisation, in order to promote 'a level playing field for business communities on both sides' and 'liberalise trade in the global economy', while facilitating foreign investment and renouncing any 'protectionist measures'.
The majority of the European Parliament is once again expressing its now standard neoliberal and meddling position on relations between the EU and Russia.
in writing. - (SK) The resolution deals with the preparations for the EU-Russia Summit to be held on 9 and 10 June 2011 in Nizhny Novgorod.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document because Russia, which is a permanent member of the UN Security Council, shares responsibility with the EU for maintaining global stability, and because enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the EU and Russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of Europe and beyond.
The conclusion of a Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Russian Federation remains of the utmost importance for the further development and intensification of cooperation between the two partners.
I voted for this resolution and I should like to emphasise that Russia's energy policy towards the EU Member States and the countries of Eastern Europe will be a litmus test of whether and how genuinely Russia will be able to go down the path of modernisation and democracy.
Of course, we must not forget and we cannot ignore various important issues, which continue to hinder the development of valuable relations between the EU and Russia, and especially, moreover, the fact that nearly three years after the war in Georgia, Russia continues to occupy a large part of the sovereign territory of Georgia, continues to ignore the agreement concluded in 2008, and fails to ensure proper access to these territories by the European Union Observer Mission.
The Union needs a new openness in relations with Russia because many new challenges have arisen since the last EU-Russia Summit which we cannot overcome without improved cooperation.
Enhanced cooperation and good-neighbourly relations between the European Union and Russia are of major importance for stability, security and prosperity for Europe and beyond.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which reaffirms the urgent need for Russia to implement fundamental principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and media freedom as a basis for cooperation, and calls on Russia to take concrete action to improve its human rights record and to protect journalists, human rights activists, minorities and opposition representatives from violence and intimidation.
Enhanced cooperation and good-neighbourly relations between the European Union and Russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of Europe and beyond.
As far as energy security is concerned, we are of the belief that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a means of applying political pressure, but must be based on the principles of interdependence and transparency, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, so as to establish a legally binding energy framework.
I am voting against this report, despite its calls for the democratic rights of Russian citizens to be respected, something which I support.
Another important aspect to bear in mind is the dialogue on the further liberalisation of the visa system, in view of the commitment to abolish these in the long run for travel between the EU and Russia.
in writing. - 9 June marked the opening of the 27th EU-Russia Summit in Nizhny Novgorod.
The European delegation was led by the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy and the President of European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso.
The document also draws attention to important challenges which should be the subject of cooperation between Russia and the European Union.
In addition, both parties are dependent on each other in both economic and political terms.
It is also necessary to raise the question of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Russia, which is, after all, a member State of the Council of Europe.
in writing. - (LT) Russia and the EU are linked both economically and politically.
Consequently, Russia and the EU must continue to enhance cooperation and develop good neighbourly relations.
I voted for this resolution and would like to emphasise that Russia will always be a very important partner of the European Union.
It is therefore necessary to establish strategic cooperation, sharing not only economic and commercial interests, but also the goal of close cooperation in Europe and internationally.
Enhanced cooperation and good-neighbourly relations between the European Union and Russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of Europe and beyond.
Dialogue between Russia and the EU should be extended to all sectors and we should move towards a strategic partnership for our common future.
I consider that we have common interests with Russia, which we should utilise constructively in order to reach specific agreements on trade, on energy, in order to move towards a transparent and reliable energy policy, and on facilitating the movement of people between Russia and the EU, by making it easier to obtain a visa.
I endorse the principles of the resolution on the EU-Russia Summit.
I do not agree, however, with paragraph 17 of the resolution, which attacks Russia for not giving gay and lesbian people the right to marry or adopt children, and neither do I agree with the condemnation of Russia for blocking the gay pride march.
Ways of life, traditions and models which are socially acceptable in some EU Member States are foreign to Russia.
In the last few years, the European Parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning misleading business practices by certain business directory companies.
As the current directive on misleading practices has turned out to be insufficient, I voted in favour of this resolution calling on the European Commission to speed up the revision of this directive so that such misleading practices can no longer take place.
I have often spoken on the matter in Parliament and I recently contacted the Commission to discuss all the complaints coming from my own constituency about Internet directory fraud schemes based in other countries.
The fraud scheme people pretend that they are genuine directories and then they charge the businesses - which did not seek the service in the first place or realise that there would be a charge.
Even though Directive 2006/114/EC is in place, not enough is being done by the Commission or the Member States to aid businesses affected by the fraud schemes or to eliminate the fraud schemes entirely.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution.
The European Parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory companies that are having a significant financial impact on thousands of mostly small businesses in the European Union.
As the business directory companies are often established in a different EU Member State from that of their victims, it is difficult for the latter to seek protection and/or redress from national authorities.
Although the European Commission cannot demand that an individual or a company implement the provisions of the directive on misleading and comparative advertising, as Guardian of the Treaties, it must ensure that the directive is properly implemented in the Member States.
I welcome the call for the Commission to take action, verifying the transposition of the provisions of the directive into Member States' national law and their proper implementation, and to take corrective action, where necessary, in order to stop misleading activities.
I have supported this initiative as the Commission must ensure that Member States comply with Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions.
My vote in favour of this resolution on the misleading practices of business directory companies represents a new phase in the long campaign conducted by the Lega Nord in defence of our entrepreneurs.
The resolution denounces the exceedingly high number of scams carried out to the detriment of thousands of small businesses across the entire European Union and highlights the defective transposition by Member States of the 2006 directive on misleading advertising.
in writing. - (CS) More than 400 petitions delivered to the European Parliament draw attention to the widespread misleading commercial practices employed by certain 'business directory companies', consisting of persuading businesses and also non-profit entities to register free of charge in a directory, only to discover that they have signed a contract that also entails a fee.
However, directory companies are often established in a Member State other than the one in which their victims are based, making it difficult for the latter to seek protection or redress from national authorities.
Regrettably, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions, fails to provide a sufficiently effective remedy or is inadequately enforced by Member States.
The production of some sort of blacklist of the misleading practices employed by these companies could be of at least some assistance here.
in writing. - I voted against the motion for a resolution on misleading business directories as the UK operates its own misleading marketing regulations via the Office of Fair Trading, which controls the regulation of open and honest trade and contracts within the UK.
In the UK, the Chambers of Commerce and UK Trade and Investments offer access to secure business directories and networking opportunities through programmes such as the Overseas Market Introduction Service, Passport to Export and even the European Enterprise Network.
The misleading business practices in question typically consist in luring businesses, as well as professionals and non-profit entities, into being listed in a business directory free of charge only for the signatories to later discover that they have signed a contract with a fee.
The directive on misleading and comparative advertising (2006/114/EC), which applies to business-to-business transactions, is insufficient in providing an effective remedy and is also inadequately enforced by Member States.
The resolution urges the Commission to verify Member States' correct transposition, implementation and national enforcement of the directive and to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically blacklisting misleading practices by business directories.
It is therefore vital that European legislation should protect consumers and businesses against this kind of practice.
As regards misleading practices in business directories, which are common and have a disastrous effect on businesses, I consider it a good sign that the relevant legislation is being overhauled so as to put an end to the misleading practices used by publishers of business directories, namely through the creation of a blacklist of misleading practices used by business directories.
The present motion for a resolution analyses the conduct of certain directory companies that behave unacceptably when they trick thousands of citizens and companies in the European Union.
Regrettably, not only is Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising failing to obtain the hoped-for results, but the victims are, in particular, elderly individuals, small and medium-sized businesses and even charitable organisations.
The victims are waiting for practical results, and I hope that the Commission will take the measures necessary to bring this state of affairs to an end.
As is mentioned in the resolution, the European Parliament has received more than 400 petitions on the subject of widespread misleading trading practices by publishers of business directories which affect thousands of businesses, mostly small ones.
Furthermore, the publishers of business directories are often located in a different Member State from their victims, making it difficult for the latter to appeal to their national authorities for protection and/or justice.
In the resolution that has now been adopted, the European Parliament calls on the European Commission to analyse the problem and work towards a solution, a request that has gained our support.
I fully support this resolution, which calls on the European Commission to properly implement the directive on misleading and comparative advertising.
I have seen some improvement, but I still believe that much has to be done in order to stop unfair misleading practices.
Businesses in Europe are still victims of abusive misleading behaviour leading to significant financial losses mostly for small business and start-up business.
With the adoption of today's resolution, the European Parliament has once again called for protection for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This type of practice has been the subject of complaints made to the European Parliament by businesses.
This is why we also want the European Commission to check how the Member States have implemented the provisions of Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising.
The European Parliament is also demanding that the question of misleading business directories be included in a review of that directive.
In the resolution which has been adopted today, we return, too, to a proposal which has already been made in the resolution adopted by Parliament in 2008 on the same matter, namely, the idea of creating a blacklist of dishonest practices employed by businesses which operate business directories.
in writing. - (LT) I welcomed this document because Parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory companies that are having a significant financial impact on thousands of mostly small businesses in the European Union, and Parliament continues to receive petitions and complaints about business directory companies.
The business directory companies are often established in a different Member State from that of their victims, making it difficult for the latter to seek protection and/or redress from national authorities.
The Commission is urged to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving Directive 2006/114/EC and other relevant legislation in order to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically blacklisting misleading practices by business directories.
The first area is the support of small and medium-sized enterprises by EU bodies and institutions, in the context here of protection from misleading commercial practices; the second area is the protection of competition by preventing widespread unfair competition, which includes misleading and comparative advertising.
We should welcome the anticipated efforts of the Commission, which, under the resolution, is urged not only to revise and improve Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, but also to take corrective measures against the patchy enforcement of this directive by EU Member States.
in writing. - Parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory companies, affecting thousands of mostly small businesses in the European Union, with a significant financial impact.
The business directory companies are often established in a different Member State from that of their victims, making it difficult for the latter to seek protection and/or redress from national authorities.
The European Parliament urges the Commission to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving Directive 2006/114/EC and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically blacklisting misleading practices by business directories.
I see this petition as a step in the right direction, which should be followed by further measures, and, therefore, I have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - (LT) I welcome this resolution because we must encourage honest business practices and halt the spread of misleading business practices.
Currently, most companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, suffer significant financial losses as a result of such misleading activities.
In order to stop such dishonest activities as soon as possible, the Commission must compile a blacklist of misleading practices by business directories and adopt relevant legislation, focusing, in particular, on the provisions of the directive on misleading and comparative advertising and the implementation of these.
in writing. - I voted for this motion for a resolution because it has clearly pointed out the current situation of misleading business practices, which are already against EU law, and that the international dimension of the fraud makes it difficult for the victims to pursue and fight against the fraudsters.
Therefore, I fully support this resolution that calls on the Commission to proactively verify Member States' transposition, implementation and national enforcement of Directive 2006/114/EC and take corrective action where needed.
The Commission should also speed up revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation to end the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible.
This European Parliament resolution of 9 June 2011 on misleading business directories warns the Commission of the need to step up its activities regarding the revision and improvement of the directive and other relevant legislation in order to put an end, as soon as possible, to the misleading practices used by publishers of business directories, namely, through the compilation of a specific blacklist of misleading practices used in business directories.
According to the rapporteur, Parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning misleading trading practices.
Regrets that Directive 2006/114/EC(2) on misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions, appears to be either insufficient in providing an effective remedy or inadequately enforced by Member States; 2.
Recalls that, although the Commission has no power to enforce the directive directly against individuals or companies, it does have a duty to ensure that the directive is adequately implemented by Member States; 3.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution as part of a sensible reaction by European politicians from 27 countries to this fraudulent behaviour.
This practice heralds from Spain but could happen elsewhere.
The number of complaints which Parliament has received concerning misleading business directories and the fact that they are often cross-border in nature demonstrate that there is a need to improve EU regulations in this area.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and the call for an improvement to the legal situation that it contains.
However, action needs to be taken in the meantime in order to prevent the number of businesses affected rising still higher.
It is important that offers for inclusion in directories be examined extremely thoroughly and carefully, particularly if they are allegedly free of charge.
