Effects of the Xynthia storm in Europe (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the effects of storm Xynthia in Europe.
I wish to express my personal sympathy to all those that are suffering as a consequence of the disaster.
I am referring in particular to the dams, to the railway lines, to the sewage networks, to the electricity networks, to the telecommunication networks and to the entire system of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular in the maritime sector, in the aquaculture sector and in the agricultural sector, with 45 000 hectares submerged by salt water, since this was a flood that originated in the sea.
Mr President, I would also like to express my deepest sympathy - my own and that of my Group - and my solidarity with the affected regions, while regretting the serious economic consequences of these disasters and offering in particular our condolences to the families of the victims.
Mr President, our first words can only be of condolence and solidarity for the families of the victims of this catastrophe.
In the past years, the Member States have been hit by a considerable number of catastrophes, as demonstrated by the 62 requests to mobilise the Solidarity Fund, made by a total of 21 countries, in only its first six years of existence.
As it has already been said here, the sensible utilisation of land, economic and social development that is in harmony with nature, and strengthened cohesion in the European Union are also vital factors for the prevention of catastrophes. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several European regions have been hit by some exceptional natural meteorological phenomena, which have resulted in huge material, economic, agricultural and environmental damage, and have sadly claimed too many human lives.
I dare to hope, Commissioner, that beyond your due condolences, the European Solidarity Fund, a European activity that in this case is useful, will be able to be implemented quickly and flexibly in both France and Madeira, just as it has been - as someone said - in other European countries, to help my compatriots in Vendée and Charente-Maritime restore their vital infrastructure and services.
As the spring flooding of 1953 is still very vivid in our memories, we know that it is vital to look ahead.
We in the Netherlands have now come up with a plan, a delta plan, to reinforce our coastal defences and we are also looking into other matters where it is imperative that we link safety with economic development.
Well, we have to conclude that it could have been made more flexible if the Council had not incomprehensibly blocked the review of the operation of this fund as adopted by a very large majority of MEPs in May 2006.
On the other hand, given the exceptional nature of the disaster that has hit these regions, the European Union, in cooperation with the Member States, must take action on a much greater scale and more quickly, not least by harnessing the European Solidarity Fund, and it must do so in a more flexible manner than the one you have certainly just described, Commissioner.
Lastly, there must be an opportunity to establish a common prevention, monitoring and warning system by which swift, solidarity-based assistance can be provided to the populations. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague Mrs Morin-Chartier and the other Members have said, on 27 and 28 February the violent storm Xynthia battered several French regions, claiming 53 lives and causing huge material damage.
A state of natural disaster has thus been declared in three French regions: Brittany, Poitou-Charentes and Pays de la Loire.
I therefore call on the European Commission - and my colleague Mr Béchu supports my request - to swiftly release the EU Solidarity Fund so as to help the disaster areas cope with the damage.
Europeans must take action together, since more and more disasters are occurring and they are affecting our European territories and, in particular, our most isolated and vulnerable regions, such as the islands in the Indian Ocean and the Caribbean islands. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express my solidarity to the families of the victims affected by storm Xynthia.
Commissioner, this is an extraordinary situation that requires extraordinary measures. (RO) The incidence and extent of the calamities and natural disasters which we have been facing recently are alarming.
The time has come for the proposal made in 2006 by Michel Barnier about creating a European civil protection force to be put into practice.
At this time in particular, the European Union is under the microscope, and the Solidarity Fund was set up for precisely this kind of difficult situation, as the people of Madeira and France now need not only our sympathy but also, more than anything, our financial assistance.
The disaster in France and on Madeira has also been intensified by the fact that people have perhaps been too ambitious in their attempts to control the natural world and have attempted to lead their lives by overruling the laws of nature.
We have faith in the Spanish Presidency and we therefore call on it to provide the impetus needed to reform the Solidarity Fund. (PT) Mr President, I will start by expressing my most heartfelt condolences to all the families of the victims of Xynthia, especially in France and Spain.
It is essential that Parliament be able to commit itself to working quickly to review the structure of the Solidarity Fund, simplifying it and sending aid faster so that we can quickly provide relief to people from whom we cannot request more time. (RO) I welcome the initiative supporting the European Parliament's resolution on the major natural disasters which have taken place in the autonomous region of Madeira and the effects of the storm Xynthia in Europe.
I am thinking at the moment, even though it is not specifically referred to in this resolution, of the EU's Danube Strategy, given that this river has been a source of natural disasters in the recent past, in 2002 and 2004.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I come from a small village, with approximately 500 inhabitants, which was severely hit by floods just two years ago.
As you know, the Commission proposal for an amendment to the European Union Solidarity Fund Regulation dates back to 2005.
There are also other possibilities which can be explored.
I would like to thank you for your support and I would also like to thank you in the name of my colleague, Johannes Hahn, who has responsibility for this area.
Written Statements (Rule 149) On 27 and 28 February, the violent storm Xynthia battered several French regions.
It claimed 53 lives and caused huge material damage, including, in particular, serious flooding.
My region, Brittany, has been severely affected, and a state of natural disaster has been declared in three departments, just as it has in the Poitou-Charentes and Pays de la Loire regions.
I should like to express my full solidarity with the families affected and with the victims of the disaster.
The European Union as a whole must show its responsiveness and its solidarity by means of a financial aid package and support measures aimed at reconstruction.
Mr Béchu joins me in requesting emergency aid.
This must be done not only by mobilising the European Union Solidarity Fund as urgently and flexibly as possible and with the greatest possible funding, but also by utilising all the instruments and mechanisms made available by the Cohesion Fund to assist the affected regions in overcoming this terrible tragedy.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all the efforts made by Madeira's local authorities and its people.
Nowadays, the European Union is confronted too often with such natural disasters to make do with its existing policies, and I believe that it should strengthen three areas of intervention in order to better protect its citizens: prevention, which is addressed in the 2009 White Paper on adapting to climate change, for which I was rapporteur for the opinion and which specifically emphasises the vulnerability of coastal and mountain areas; rapid intervention, by finally creating this European civil protection force, about which we have done nothing but talk and which only needs a proposal to become a reality; and repair, by permitting the emergency mobilisation of the Structural Funds - if necessary outside the regional framework of the planned areas of intervention - and of the Solidarity Fund, the regulation of which must be amended so as to speed up and simplify its mobilisation.
