I do not accept the need to wait until 2033 for the European Driving Licence to be put into effect.
These were also avowed by Count János Eszterházy, a Slovakian Hungarian politician, who was condemned on trumped up charges by the Communists in 1947 and died a martyr's death in Mírov prison in 1957.
The Hungarian celebration on 15 March jeopardises from one year to the next the good understanding between Romanians and Hungarians.
In this situation, provocative gestures, such as the recent action by a Hungarian extremist who symbolically hanged the hero of the Transylvanian Romanians' struggle in 1848 for their national rights, only serve to threaten peaceful coexistence.
Finally, Catherine Day was also wrong when she said that this is not a crisis of the euro.
There are people in the local community who have information about Constable Kerr's brutal murder.
I am also appalled at the lack of respect that this speech has been given by some Members of this House. (EL) Madam President, in ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the 27 Member States have committed to equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportunities, thereby ensuring that these citizens can participate fully in society.
The last incident happened just a few weeks ago, when French pickets stopped another lorry full of meat from Catalonia, assaulted the driver and then sprayed diesel over 20 000 kilos of fresh meat.
I have tabled a parliamentary written question to the Commission in the hope that the European Union will stop this unacceptable aggression. (HU) Madam President, in Europe, cultural diversity is a value which all of us must take action to defend.
If the European Union takes the principle of honouring cultural and linguistic diversity seriously, which Article 3 of the EU Treaty also advocates, everything must be done to ensure that this principle is enforced in actual cases.
Strangely, this strategy does not make any reference to disabled people, and this is why I would like to use this minute to make an appeal, since the education ministers of all the Member States will be meeting in Brussels on 2 and 4 May to discuss the global strategies around this issue.
