Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulation (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission on the protection of consumer interests in competition rules for the motor vehicle sector in the internal market, by Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab, Evelyne Gebhardt, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Adam Bielan, Heide Rühle and Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection (O-0044/201 - B7-0209/2010); and the oral question to the Commission on the Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulation, by Sharon Bowles, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - B7-0210/2010).
This Regulation will expire on 31 May 2010.
There is also a need to ensure that the small and medium-sized players in this market enjoy favourable conditions.
The Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee held a very important hearing where we heard from both dealers and consumer representatives about their very real concerns that the safeguards which have been put in place to ensure competition in the sales market, which were put there clearly in 2002 - many of them, I have to say, in response to concerns raised by this Parliament - have simply been swept away by what seems to us to be rather excessive zeal on your part to simplify issues and make life rather easier for you, as an administration, to deal with it.
There were clear safeguards built in back in 2002 - not that long ago in the cycle of car distribution - to redress the balance of power between independent dealers and manufacturers.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the current Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulation expires on 1 June this year, and we need to adopt a new regulation before that date.
The College of Commissioners has placed this issue on the agenda of our meeting of 26 May.
The latest took place on 12 April this year at the ECON Committee.
Mr President, Mr Almunia, 80% of the components of every new car are manufactured by independent producers.
Without a clearly defined guarantee in the new regulation, the right of choice for European clients, which is fundamental for the market, will continue to be a fiction. (DE) Mr President, in the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, it is, of course, also important to protect small and medium-sized enterprises.
Competition would increase between car manufacturers and not between dealers or between dealers and manufacturers.
In addition, the new provisions of the regulations concerning the general block exemption regime in the automotive sector should be extended and include the definition of end users in order to take into account leasing as well. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, it is very clear from previous speeches that Parliament is very worried specifically about the balance between car dealers and car manufacturers, which is also inevitably reflected in the services that consumers receive.
There are large dealers, who have a strong presence in the market in some of the Member States, and there are also many small dealers who are happier with what we are currently proposing than with what has been in place since 2002, because they have seen that certain aspects, not intended by the legislator in 2002, have not been in their interest, but rather have made it difficult for them to withstand competition from the major dealers.
In resolution B7 0245/2010, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to clarify the matters which I raised in a written question to the Commission of 16 April this year, such as access to technical information for independent producers, and to explain precisely the concepts 'parts of comparable quality', 'original parts' and 'technical information'.
