The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Gabriele Albertini, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the report from the Council to the European Parliament on the main aspects and the basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in 2008, presented to the European Parliament in application of Part II, Section G, paragraph 43 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006, the report by Arnaud Danjean, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the implementation of the European Security Strategy and the Common Security and Defence Policy, the oral question to the Council by Gabriele Albertini and Arnaud Danjean, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Non-proliferation Treaty - B7-0009/2010), and the oral question to the Commission by Gabriele Albertini and Arnaud Danjean, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Non-proliferation Treaty - B7-0010/2010).
The powers recently obtained due to the entry into force of the treaty mean that Parliament engages in frequent, cooperative and effective discussions with our primary interlocutor, Baroness Ashton, who has the honour of acting as the new Vice-President/High Representative for the first time.
As the report itself confirms, the High Representative is therefore called upon to appear before the European Parliament and to consult it frequently and regularly.
The European Parliament has a key role to play in its capacity as custodian of the democratic legitimacy of external action.
The creation of a European External Action Service will give a diplomatic body and system to the European Union which, until now, has only been able to rely on national representation.
After an initial introductory section on strategy, the report addresses the issue of European foreign policy by theme and geographical area.
The European Union must make its presence felt with the international organisations to which it is allied, especially the United Nations, the chief custodian of global security.
We call on the Vice-President/High Representative to let Europe fulfil its ambition to become an active, strategic and independent partner of a great ally such as the United States in order to respond to the global challenges of terrorism, finance, and the often fraught relationships with industrial giants such as Russia, China and Japan.
The report continues with a geographical analysis of what we can hope to achieve.
In the Balkans, the theme of enlargement is introduced: the report praises the gradual achievement of the stabilisation process in Kosovo, where the European Union is present with the EULEX mission, but efforts must still be made to ensure that accession standards are respected for many countries close to candidacy for accession - Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Latin America: need to create a stable and enduring partnership for relationships between the European Union and Latin America.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the report on the implementation of the European Security Strategy that we are presenting today is an annual document by Parliament that provides a kind of interim assessment of the European Security and Defence Policy and submits proposals aimed at improving the effectiveness and visibility of that policy.
The first concerns the 10 years of the European Security and Defence Policy, which we celebrated at the end of 2009.
The change in terms of security and defence goes far beyond a strict semantic adjustment.
Indeed, the ESDP becomes the Common Security and Defence Policy, the CSDP, and it must take on a new dimension.
The Treaty has enriched the range of tools and the scope of security and defence policy, particularly with the inclusion of assistance clauses, of solidarity clauses, with permanent structured cooperation and, above all, with the creation of the European External Action Service and of your role as High Representative, Vice-President of the Commission.
Lastly, the third major event that characterises the context in which this report was drafted is that NATO which, for 21 of the 27 members of the Union, is still the main reference point where the collective security of the European continent is concerned, is currently revising its strategic concept and that this assessment by NATO should also lead us, the Union, to define more clearly the conditions of this partnership, which remains fundamental.
It corresponds to a need for our continent to strive to ensure its own security but also to contribute to the stability of the world around us, to tackle the crises and the threats that are developing in our environment.
Beyond the traditional armed conflicts that continue to take place in our immediate environment, Europe must be able to express its interests and defend them in the face of the new threats - I am thinking in particular of piracy and cybercrime.
I sincerely believe in the complementary nature of the civil and military instruments that the Union possesses, and the recent crisis in Haiti, where you went - and I believe that you were able to observe this good cooperation - testifies to the need to link our civil and military resources so that we can cope with natural disasters and major crises.
The Europe of industry and defence has begun to organise itself on our continent through the defence package.
Parliament is ready to play its full role, its full positive and constructive role, to help you realise this ambition, which is a common ambition.
Moreover, I wish to take advantage of this opportunity to thank all the political groups that have worked hard to enrich this report.
We therefore welcome the commitment made by Presidents Medvedev and Obama to conclude a new reduction agreement in the near future.
Moreover, the Union has a role to play in promoting cooperation relating to the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
From strengthening the rule of law in Kosovo to working with the emerging powers to share responsibility for global governance, from promoting peace in the Middle East - and may I join Vice-President Biden in condemning the decision to build 1 600 new houses in East Jerusalem - to providing shelter to the surviving victims of Haiti's earthquake, which I visited last week, from dealing with proliferation problems such as Iran, to devising effective answers to 'new' challenges such as energy, climate change and cyber security.
Of course, the European External Action Service will be key to delivering this.
We have to build a system that is robust, that will enable us to deal with the problems of today and the new problems that will arise tomorrow.
At the heart of everything we do lies a simple truth: to protect our interests and promote our values, we must be engaged abroad.
So we have to deal with complex problems and we do so in a new geopolitical landscape.
In the last 60 years, our share of global GDP has shrunk from 28% to 21%.
If we pull together, we can safeguard our interests.
And yes, there is a tendency in Europe to put process ahead of outcomes.
Thirdly, by being both principled and creative because we must be both: principled in the defence of our values and creative in how we forge bespoke solutions to complex problems.
Out of that general picture come several core objectives: firstly, to ensure greater stability and security in our neighbourhood, by promoting political and economic reform.
This is important in itself for reasons which are very self-evident, but our wider international credibility also depends on getting our neighbourhood right.
Secondly, to address global security challenges, the challenges of our time.
I first went to Washington and New York, which was the right way to start our important relationships with the United States and the UN.
In between, I have chaired the Foreign Affairs Council three times, attended the informal European Council and met with the College of Commissioners.
That is also why, because of the interests of this House, I have ensured involvement from the European Parliament in the steering group that I set up.
This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to build something new, something that finally brings together the instruments of our engagement in support of a single political strategy.
If we get it right - and we must - then we will be able to shape a European foreign policy for the 21st century with an external service designed to achieve it: one where we mobilise all our levers of influence - political, economic, development and crisis management tools - in a coordinated way.
Let me illustrate what I have in mind when I say 'comprehensive approach' with a couple of examples.
So our Balkan Strategy is what it should be: strategic in its objectives, multi-faceted in terms of instruments and tailor-made in terms of implementation.
The second example is the Horn of Africa.
So we need stronger structures, more flexibility and better preparedness if we want Georgia to be the benchmark for our action in the future.
Let me turn to our common security and defence policy and say that I agree with the broad thrust of the Danjean report about how important our missions are.
More than 70 000 men and women have been deployed in that period in more than 20 missions.
We do crisis management in a European way with a comprehensive approach in support of international law and agreements and in close cooperation with our key partners.
We work well with NATO together in Bosnia and Herzegovina and along the coast of Somalia.
There are many good examples of EU and UN cooperation on the ground - the Democratic Republic of Congo, Chad and indeed Kosovo.
In the Danjean report, and more widely, people raise the question of whether it is time for the EU to have its own permanent operations headquarters.
We often find ourselves approaching this in terms of structures.
If we use that analysis as the starting point for our discussions, we should be able to establish the necessary common ground and move forward to determine what we should do.
The report also calls for the establishment of a Defence Council, an idea that I know has been around for some time.
I want to mention briefly the two most significant items: first, the Non-proliferation Treaty review conference scheduled for May in New York.
To respond, we need to be ready to make our contribution: on access to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in particular, for developing countries, while avoiding proliferation risks, and that includes work on the multilateral nuclear fuel cycle approaches - I think 84 countries have benefited from EU assistance programmes; with progress on nuclear disarmament - politically, this is fundamental to create a constructive atmosphere; and by addressing regional proliferation crises, in particular with Iran, which has the potential to derail the conference.
The Lisbon Treaty gives us that chance.
I think the reason was clear: to build a stronger, more assertive and self-confident European foreign policy at the service of the citizens of the European Union.
I know many in this House share that goal, and I count on your support to make sure it happens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - Mr President, I want to congratulate Mrs Ashton on her encouraging statement.
Nuclear proliferation is at such a critical point that it has led personalities like Henry Kissinger to argue that only the move towards total elimination will ensure non-proliferation and global security.
So we support an international treaty for the progressive elimination of nuclear weapons, a halt to the production of fissile material, bringing forward the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty, the reduction of nuclear warheads, START, etc., bringing all treatment of nuclear fuel under the control of the IAEA and strengthening its mandate and its verification powers.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I hope we are agreed that we need a proactive foreign policy guided by our European common goals and based on our common values.
Thus, the priorities are clear and I am happy to see that these priorities I am going to mention are the same as those of Mrs Ashton.
As far as the External Action Service is concerned, we need an institution which should be built not only on the principle of political and budgetary accountability but also on the principle of effectiveness.
We have to promote our values in the world but in a secular way and not as new crusaders.
I think that these and many others are our priorities which circumscribe a Herculean task.
However, we have also witnessed a series of events which have clearly illustrated it: the natural disasters that keep on happening, the horrific attacks that keep on happening, the fact that some governments in the Middle East, despite being democratic, have nonetheless taken decisions which have severely hampered the peace process, or the little that remains of it, and so forth.
Both you and we knew that you were taking on a well-nigh impossible task.
We are pleased to have heard you speak today and to have been witness to your powerful statement about the European External Action Service, which we all need so desperately.
If there is anyone who still has the will to put an end to what the English call turf wars - one side fighting with gloves on and the other without - then I am sure that, if we all work together, we will be able to prepare ourselves well for what lies ahead.
Thank you for your attention.
Anyone who is in favour of leaving numerous policy areas to the Commission or the Council Secretariat should be honest and admit that he or she is in favour of the status quo, of the system under the Treaty of Nice.
It is thus absolutely clear that we believe the rights of women must be firmly anchored in this service and that women must participate in it.
Baroness Ashton, a number of female MEPs have written to you to ask that you ensure that, from the very beginning, UN Resolutions 1325 and 1820 are implemented in the institutional structures of the service.
As I said, you have our support en route to a sound common External Action Service.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the Lisbon Treaty is now a legal reality in the international order, even if it lacks popular democratic legitimacy because most EU citizens, including Britain's, were denied a vote in a referendum.
We would like to see a similar approach from the Member States and the Commission.
Undoubtedly, the creation of the EAS must be subject to debate and consensus about who does what and does it best, but the CFSP foreign policy elements must remain firmly within the Council.
But we also need strong leadership, in theory enabled by the Lisbon Treaty, to forge a lasting vision for Europe's diplomacy in the world.
The EU has had many years to think about this Service, so this muddling through and hesitation that we currently see does no credit to the EU's ambitions to play a global role in foreign policy through the CFSP.
We are basically doing so, Baroness Ashton, because we have reached a conclusion.
In the countries surrounding us, in the European Union, security and defence policies now have nothing to do with defending territory: security policy is now a projection of foreign policy.
We do not want this for any state, we do not want any powerful state to deploy military force in the world, and we therefore believe that respect for international law is very important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Baroness Ashton, Mr Albertini's truly excellent report contains a passage that I consider to be of great political importance: the part connecting the phenomenon of immigration to the policy of cooperation with developing countries.
Ensuring local governance and the collaboration of governments is the goal of foreign policy, and cooperation must become an important instrument of European foreign policy: this is my personal message to Baroness Ashton within a sector that I hold very dear, in other words, cooperation. (DE) Mr President, the fact that only very unspecific foreign policy goals were defined in the Treaty of Lisbon is coming back to haunt us now.
There will probably also be a price to pay for the fact that, in Baroness Ashton, we have a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy without any real foreign policy experience who was foisted on the Union as the lowest common denominator that the Member States were able to find.
If we keep silent on all the important foreign policy issues, we, as Europeans, will be able to achieve just as little as a bunch of diplomats, who shake hands all over the world whilst professing different courses of foreign policy.
It is also time that the new High Representative acted in a more sensitive way in respect of these matters, including, for example, in using all three working languages of the Union - thus including German - in the European External Action Service.
In so doing, it must be clear that Europe's security is defended not in the Hindu Kush but on the external borders of the EU in the Balkans.
Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, if I might just give some comments directly on the issues and questions that have been raised.
Mr Severin, on the External Action Service and the priorities that you gave, well, we are in the same place - exactly so.
So I would agree wholeheartedly with the priorities that you set out and thank you for those.
That is a challenge we need to make sure that we address.
We must use the Service as we build it to be able to be your servant in helping you address those issues on the ground.
It is why we spend a lot of time in discussion with the United States and why I personally spend a lot of time in discussion and dialogue with them and, of course, Ukraine.
Mr Meyer, you talked about the issues of foreign policy and disarmament and the issues of whether it is appropriate to think in military terms.
What I am trying to say is that I think you have to think about the comprehensive strategy and approach that we can offer that involves using the means that we have and using them to greatest effect.
Most people want to be able to live in the country in which they have grown up.
So the important thing about development, in my view, has always been to be able to support the economic livelihoods of people in order to enable them to be able to stay and live where they wish to live in order to be able to get the educational support, the health support and so on.
We are building something different that is about long-term security and stability, economic growth on the ground that we can contribute to that is in our interest but that actually is also about the values that we hold dear.
And, as for my languages, oui, je peux parler français, mais je ne suis pas très bien en français.
I look forward to getting to the point where I can have a real conversation with you in much better German than I can do today. (DE) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Albertini and Danjean reports, as well as the motion for a resolution on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, show that important decisions will soon have to be taken and that we need to prepare for that.
I believe that the European Union now has an important role to play in a crucial phase in which the aim must be to prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and that there needs to be a real flurry of activity in the 5+1 group, specifically in connection with the preparation of a UN resolution and the possible extension of sanctions, in order to prevent the advent of a new nuclear State by non-military means.
Baroness Ashton, I would like to thank you for travelling to Kiev to talk to President Yanukovich.
We need to build in safeguards to this effect so as to secure the efficiency of the unitary service but, at the same time, also the Community policy and the rights of the European Parliament that that involves - in respect of the budget, budgetary control and the granting of discharge - as well as political supervision rights on the part of the European Parliament.
We hope for positive collaboration. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, I address you, Baroness Ashton, as Vice-President of the Commission, but also as High Representative - as, in contrast to the foreign ministers, I assume that, as High Representative, you also have some degree of political responsibility to this House.
One of them - as you, too, said at the beginning - is to expand foreign policy because the climate, energy and other matters are part of foreign policy, and the other is creating a dynamic and effective External Action Service.
Many do give you their support, but many are making problems.
For that reason, we also say clearly from here that we will use our parliamentary capabilities to the full not to prevent something, but to build something constructive.
It needs to be said once again, specifically to the Council of Foreign Ministers, that this Parliament will exercise its rights - no more, but also no less - in connection with the budget and the Staff Regulations because we have a goal, which is an effective and efficient External Action Service. (Applause) Mr President, I think we all expected that there were going to be teething troubles in bringing the treaty into force and we might apologise for failing to include a clause on time travel in the treaty, but the thing we failed to expect and cannot accept is a breakdown of trust between the Commission and Council in setting up the External Service.
Article 40 protects the respective functions of the Commission and the Council.
If Parliament adopts this report, it will have come further than the Commission and the Council, in a few specific points, as this report, for example, once again makes express and positive reference to the Barnier report on European civil protection.
Lady Ashton, I regret that one of the few points in your presentation where you said 'no' was to this idea of Mr Barnier's, whereas on most topics, you seem to be at the same place as everybody else. (DE) The new report, like the Albertini report, supports a Union training mission in Somalia.
This report talks of the goal of achieving Europe's strategic autonomy in the field of security and defence policy.
As it happens, I also think that this would be a strategic mistake in any case.
It would therefore be better for us to agree, very rationally and realistically, to enhance those capacities and structures that give us the capability of acting more autonomously. (PL) Mrs Ashton, Mr President, an influential Russian military officer has stated that if Russia had possessed Mistral-class amphibious assault ships, the invasion of Georgia would have lasted about half an hour.
It is difficult to talk about security in Europe if we run away from discussion about the situation on the European Union's eastern border, but this is what happened throughout the work on the report, and I am speaking now, with great regret, to the Chair of the Subcommittee on Security and Defence.
A great deal was said about what is happening a long way away on the other side of the world, and about what is happening in almost every part of the globe, but at all costs - this approach was also adopted by many Members - attempts were made to run away from substantial problems on the eastern border of the Union.
It was an exceptional muddle of a kind of European megalomania and a disregard for the interests of some Member States.
This is the reason why we are not going to endorse this report, but it is also a request I would like to make to Mrs Ashton. (The President cut off the speaker) Excuse me Mr Kowal, but you have spoken for one minute and 44 seconds instead of your allotted minute. (DE) Mr President, on behalf of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I would like to make clear at this point that we are deeply concerned about the development of EU foreign policy towards militarisation and an increasingly interventionist policy.
I want to say, in all clarity, that we believe that a military approach to conflict resolution or to the supposed stabilisation of countries or regions is absolutely the wrong way to go to achieve greater security for the EU and the world.
The Danjean report lists what are referred to as key threats that constitute a challenge for the EU's future security policy.
The European External Action Service, the European Defence Agency, the creation of a crisis management and planning directorate and the planned start-up fund to fund military operations are designed to make the EU a global player in military terms.
The EU should assume a leading role in relation to demilitarisation and disarmament, especially in the field of nuclear disarmament.
There needs to be a push for the obligation incumbent upon nuclear States under Article 6 of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, which is to say, complete nuclear disarmament, to be honoured at long last.
If nothing else, I would like, in this context, and in particular with regard to Iran, to point out and to warn that military operations or military activities of any kind to prevent proliferation are completely counter-productive and highly dangerous.
Finally, Madam High Representative, you will be making a trip to the Middle East.
Noam Shalit, the father of Gilad Shalit, an Israeli soldier who was abducted nearly four years ago, is counting on your full support to obtain Gilad's release.
You are participating in the debate on the Arctic, and you will see that Cuba libre goes down better with a bit of ice. (BG) The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Council's annual report was drafted in a spirit of cooperation and dialogue, which is indicative of our approach to all strategic issues.
On this point, I would like to focus attention on one important aspect of our joint cooperation.
The success of the common foreign policy and the actual results from the institutional reforms implemented are becoming a fundamental factor which will determine the attitude of European citizens towards the European Union's ability to defend their interests, to change and to develop.
Unfortunately, in recent weeks, the European press has, not without justification, been casting foreign policy in an extremely negative light, portraying it as a contest between Member States for posts in the new External Action Service, as a competition between the institutions in terms of which hat Baroness Ashton will wear more often - that of the Commission or the Council - and as an unfair struggle by the European Parliament to achieve greater influence.
Furthermore, it is also particularly damaging as a message to our external partners.
This is why I am taking the opportunity in this debate to make an appeal.
The resolution is holistic because it encompasses all the disarmament matters, from the NPT review conference to the issue of nuclear weapon-free zones.
Our resolution is the European answer to President Obama's proposal of the abolition of nuclear weapons.
I am confident this Parliament will continue in this direction with even more drive and more vision. (DE) Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative, as this Parliament's rapporteur on Kosovo, I am very pleased to have heard you say that you consider the Western Balkans to be a focus of European foreign policy and that the European Union cannot afford to fail.
Baroness Ashton, in the current state in which Bosnia finds itself, stability and stabilisation are actually dangerous.
The report before us on EU security and defence policy is a manifesto for EU military integration, deliberately confusing military and civil crisis management in order to justify an EU role.
Baroness Ashton, when I asked you about this on 11 January, you said you agreed with the position I took then.
I would be very interested to know what you really think now. (EL) Mr President, the report by Mr Albertini is indeed outstanding and I congratulate him on it.
I believe that numerous foreign policy issues are covered, but I consider that everything referred to in the two reports in terms of the proper exercising of foreign policy and security policy is inextricably linked to two things: firstly, a clear definition of the borders of the European Union, so that the European Union is treated with uniform respect and, secondly: resources, in other words money; I have read nothing about resources in either report, even though they are the most basic requirement for an effective foreign policy.
What I want, therefore, is for Lady Ashton to coordinate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so that we can discuss the resources to support the policy adopted. (NL) Mr President, Madam High Representative, I fear that what you have brought us today is a catalogue of areas for consideration or a catalogue of commonplaces.
Your office, Baroness Ashton, was meant to be a new era, so I will refer to the new era.
That would solve the problem that the day only has 24 hours, the problem which cannot be otherwise solved.
You are needed everywhere and we would like you to multiply your possibilities to act on our behalf and on behalf of the Union. (EL) Mr President, Lady Ashton, we socialists and democrats believe in a European Union with a strong presence on the international stage, a Union with a common foreign policy which can speak with one voice in what is becoming a more and more complex world, a Union with a separate defence identity, which gives it independence of choice and action and a particular role in the international sphere.
However, we would emphasise that this cooperation should not obstruct the independent development of the defence capability of the European Union.
Disarmament and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons can be achieved if each and every one of us takes a step towards attaining this ultimate objective. (RO) I would like to pay tribute to the quality of the two reports from Mr Albertini and Mr Danjean.
However, I want to continue to mention, Mrs Ashton, the need to expect a much more coherent strategy from you on security policy.
As far as the External Action Service is concerned, I believe that the staff who will work in this Service and for Europe's citizens must represent proportionally the expertise of the Member States because, unfortunately, very many institutions have achieved a hidden level of incompetence and bureaucracy, which could damage a global, coherent vision of the European Union.
But, Baroness Ashton, you are the highest-paid female politician in the world.
To top it all, yesterday it was reported that you are being provided with a Learjet.
I particularly welcome the insertion of paragraph 47 in the text, which underlines the importance of regional cooperation within the framework of the Eastern Partnership and Black Sea Synergy, because I believe that this area is one where the European Union's involvement may lead to real change from both an economic and political perspective.
I believe that, at the time of the tenth anniversary of the launch of this policy, the proposals made in the Danjean report are extremely important in terms of improving the EU's actions, which will certainly contribute to the security of European citizens and, ultimately, to peace and international security.
I should mention that I supported Amendment 34 submitted in relation to paragraph 87 of the report because I believe that if the anti-missile shield project could help establish a dialogue at European level, the reference to the dialogue with Russia does not make any sense in this context.
Mr President, the reports drawn up by Mr Albertini and Mr Danjean are very important documents coming at a crucial moment: the Lisbon Treaty has just entered into force, the EU has a new Parliament and transatlantic cooperation looks more promising.
At the same time, some of the proposals, such as the introduction of a European preference principle for defence acquisition and a call for the obligatory participation of the European defence industry in the coming US missile defence system, look pretty impossible to reconcile, while answering every need with a new institution is not always practical.
In general, with Europe constantly diminishing its military expenditure since the end of the Cold War and a public disinclined to support military action in general, the approach to CSDP should not only be mechanical but equally political.
Restoring political will in this respect is thus indispensable for a successful CSDP.
Finally, the report is important because it addresses the very topical issue of the role of the European Parliament with respect to CSDP.
I appeal for the establishment of a special European Union defence council and military operations centre.
Even in the mid-term perspective, it will not be possible to maintain membership in both organisations at the same time.
Therefore, voting in favour of this report, today, will, in reality, destroy the civil nature of the Union, will show the red card to NATO and will be the beginning of building an alternative military bloc. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by warmly congratulating my two fellow Members on their reports, which have formed the basis for a very good debate with excellent results.
In the diplomatic field, in the economic field, in security policy and in defence policy, we do need a close partnership with our colleagues in the United States, but as equal partners on an equal footing.
My third point is that it is right that the Western Balkans are an absolutely crucial factor in the European security and foreign policy of the future.
Of course, I also support the German Foreign Minister, who is demanding that German should be one of the working languages of the European External Action Service. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we need a common foreign, security and defence policy, but let us use it to obtain a world free of nuclear weapons.
However, perhaps we can succeed, together with Presidents Obama and Medvedev, in bringing this goal a crucial step closer.
We also welcome the fact that the Secretary General of NATO is to hold a comprehensive debate about bringing the overarching goal of a world free of nuclear weapons closer without having to neglect security interests.
That is, to serve the European Union's primary objectives and the efforts to strengthen its position in the world.
As we can see today, this is not a simple or easy task.
To this we can also add the national interests of individual Member States.
In this situation, it is necessary for all the players and participants in this process to be responsible, broad-minded and objective in order to be able to rise above their own egos and keep in mind mainly the common objective: the establishment of a diplomatic service that will be operating as a homogenous element, serving exclusively the needs of the European Union and its Member States.
Here is the very important leadership role - yours, Baroness Ashton.
The outcome of this effort will bear witness to whether we are really concerned about a stronger European Union or whether it is just another demonstration and contest about whose position within the European Union's structures is the strongest. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam High Representative/Vice-President, I would like to emphasise the fact that we are discussing three excellent documents drawn up by Parliament: ambitious documents that express clear stances, make clear-cut choices and are subject to broad consensus between the groups within this Parliament who care about Europe and its future.
As regards the Danjean report, I would like to highlight that the concept of strategic autonomy is presented in the context of a multilateral approach, and that it is a condition for strengthening the strategic partnership with the United States.
I would also like to highlight the fact that Parliament is united in requesting an Operations Centre, and I am glad that you, High Representative, have declared yourself open to a more exhaustive discussion of this idea.
Mr President, may I congratulate colleagues Albertini and Danjean on their comprehensive and creative reports on foreign and security policy.
The EU is bound to be a global player, as you said, High Representative, but with seven per cent of the world's population and one fifth of GDP, it will be possible only on the basis of strengthened transatlantic cooperation based on common values.
It is still a major handicap for our credibility and efficiency in the world that often we have not been able to form a unified position in these areas.
The principal challenge for you will be to carry into practice your excellent statement about building a single political strategy and taking collective responsibility.
I welcomed paragraph 10 in colleague Danjean's report which urges the Council and the Commission to analyse cyber threats and to coordinate an efficient response to such challenges based on the best practices.
If Parliament means what it says on the CFSP, we have to send a clear message that we will support a strong, comprehensive and inclusive External Action Service and, in observing our own prerogatives, we will not be part of any vested interests seeking to limit the capacity, and therefore the effectiveness, of that service.
Article 21 of the treaty establishes objective principles.
I hope that the Union for the Mediterranean Summit in Barcelona will also be successful in terms of the level of the delegations.
The European Union and the United States should not miss the opportunity to deal at a high level with the bilateral matters, conflicts and global challenges that are now mounting up on the world's agenda.
It would be paradoxical - and I will finish now - if now that we have the Treaty of Lisbon, we ran the risk of becoming irrelevant in this world that some are now calling 'post-Western' or 'post-American'. (CS) Madam High Representative, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I would like to point out the need to create a partnership with Russia.
Neither the European Union nor Russia can solve these problems alone.
Cooperation is necessary and cooperation should be the basis for a new comprehensive agreement between the EU and Russia.
I would therefore like to call on the High Representative to make use of her new powers and to speed up the negotiations with Russia.
Firstly, on the Danjean report, I would like to bring up an issue that has raised a lot of eyebrows in a number of EU Member States.
I am talking specifically about the exclusive talks between Paris and Moscow over the possible sale of four Mistral warships to Russia.
The Mistral warship is clearly offensive in nature and it is indeed very alarming that some EU Member States are engaging in arms sales to third countries which might have very negative consequences for the security of other EU Member States or the EU's neighbours.
The Treaty of Lisbon outlines common defence aspirations and includes a clause about solidarity in the area of security and defence.
Perhaps it might be a good idea to remind our friends in Serbia of one important fact, which is that Serbia and Kosovo will be together again once they both become members of the European Union. (DE) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, today you are sitting on the other side.
We want you to be at the head of an External Action Service in which you - as a fellow Member said earlier - wear both hats at the same time.
When it comes to the Danjean report, I would like to give my full support to the line taken by the rapporteur.
I still believe that, if we are to operate civilian and military mission planning in a fully integrated way in the External Action Service, it makes sense to also run that service from its own operational headquarters.
What is important is for the European Union to be present on the international stage with the capacity to speak out in defence of its positions.
We therefore advocate a broad European Union policy on cooperation relations with all the countries with which we have interests, especially in terms of human rights, from Belarus to Cuba.
We should have this policy for all countries in which we have an interest in terms of human rights, security and global challenges, because the European Union can make the difference, as has been shown with the joint position of the majority of the Member States achieved under the Spanish Presidency in the Human Rights Council in Geneva, and as must be achieved on the Middle East and on Cuba.
We want a strong, genuine European External Action Service that supports the work of the High Representative and also responds to Parliament's aspirations. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, I would like to express satisfaction at the fact that we can, today, discuss the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy with you.
In spite of several voices to the contrary, I would like to say that I am certain that the majority of this House wish you well and would like to see construction of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and a professional External Action Service, a service in which you will be able to make use of the best diplomats from all Member States of the European Union.
The Union must, of course, build the framework of the Common Security and Defence Policy.
The Union must take care of its own security, but must also be active in the face of global challenges.
This cannot be done without good cooperation with our allies from across the Atlantic.
I think that, not just because most EU Member States belong to NATO, but because of those challenges, in fact, everyone expects that you will manage to initiate a good dialogue and build coherent cooperation between the European Union and NATO.
Baroness Ashton, ending on a humorous note, I would like to express the hope that you have already sent your telephone number not only to Henry Kissinger, but also to Hilary Clinton.
The problem that some people have with you, Vice-President Ashton, is that you are not a macho general or, indeed, a narrow nationalist.
You must work closely with the United States and press for the Council statement of 8 December to be central as a framework for progress there.
The interaction between the civilian and military aspects of the Common Foreign and Security Policy must be used to improve our Union's capabilities and effectiveness.
Finally, Mrs Ashton, I wish you every success in setting up the common External Action Service.
There are many countries among the Member States of the European Union, including my homeland, Hungary, which would like to play an active role, as full and equal members, in cooperating on European security and defence policy.
I would say that these documents have been approved at the right time, at the start of Baroness Ashton's term of office, and that we have demonstrated in a detailed way what we want from the European Union's foreign policy.
To conclude, allow me just to add that I think that, on future occasions, we should pay more attention to Japan, our old and trusted friend, and not be so fascinated with China and other fast-growing countries. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, I speak, probably, for everyone present in this Chamber, when I say that foreign policy is one of the most important challenges before the European Union, and we would hope that, under your leadership, Mrs Ashton, the European Union will be a genuine regulator of foreign policy at world level.
The first is the political situation in the Middle East.
We expect a clear position from you on strategy relating to the fight against terrorism.
I would like, here, to suggest the use of all means, including, mainly civilian operations, as part of efforts to modernise a country which is, today, in ruins after 30 years of permanent war.
The second area is Iran which, today, is playing a key role in foreign policy in the region.
I think that engagement in the fight to prevent proliferation of nuclear weapons is a crucial task which also falls to you.
I think the political situation in Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Iran is crucial from the point of view of world security policy.
Therefore, Mrs Ashton, your role in this is invaluable. (ES) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, you have described Operation Atalanta in the Horn of Africa to combat piracy as a success.
The banning of more than 500 secular non-sectarian candidates by the bogus Accountability and Justice Commission, the repeated bomb attacks on polling day, and the deeply sinister delay in announcing the results, are all disturbing signs of dirty tricks.
However, the same article states that she must be a Vice-President of the Commission, from which she operates.
Baroness Ashton, it is clear that your role was designed to undermine continually the influence over foreign policy by Member States, not only individually, but also collectively on the Council.
The European External Action Service appears in the report, and despite the fact that this concerns the year 2008 - it is a pity that it is not, already, about 2009 - it is, here, a kind of marker which will be a measure of how, in fact, we carry out the work which now falls to the service headed by Mrs Ashton.
I think the geographical balance we are demanding, as well as roles in this process for the European Parliament and national parliaments, seem to me to be extremely important, here.
Clear recruitment criteria and a role for the European Parliament in developing the service are matters which are going to be the subject of careful evaluation in this Chamber.
I would remind you of a tragic event which took place in Belgrade on 12 March seven years ago.
This duplication should be rejected - and, of course, I speak from the special position of being a representative of a neutral State.
I also reject the lifting of the visa requirement, an ill-considered lifting of the requirement for Balkan States whereby already, after a few months, around 150 000 Macedonians are en route to central Europe, two thirds of whom have already disappeared into illegality.
This is certainly no way to further the security needs of European citizens - it makes no contribution to security and it also, of course, does nothing to increase our citizens' desire for more Europe. (SK) I am concerned that the previous conferences have not produced tangible results in the area of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
I want to say at the beginning that I agree completely with all honourable Members who spoke of the value and importance of the scrutiny of this House and the role of this House, not only in terms of that scrutiny, but also in terms of the expertise that I know exists within it.
We have to consistently view our approach in the wider world as being about developing those strong political relationships in order to promote security, not only for ourselves but also for third states, for states with whom we are seeking to have that relationship or with whom we are in dialogue because of the concerns that we have.
I take the point about the importance of stability: not only do we have to have it there, but we need to keep it there.
There is concern in the region that we are seen to be moving forward and, on occasions, I feel we have got a bit stuck in what we need to do next.
That is what the European Parliament decided in terms of timing.
If you look at how we are going to operate the External Action Service, it is like an umbrella organisation that takes in clearly the responsibilities under the treaty but which is also your servant and the Commission's servant.
It is a very important mission, but it is a mission that has to be connected to all the other things we are doing in that region.
We have now been looking at this, because, as I have been in the job a little bit longer, I am more engaged in the work that we are doing in terms of our missions abroad, whether in Kosovo, whether in Bosnia or whether in discussing what we are doing in Atalanta or indeed, what we have just been doing in Haiti, and so forth.
The projection of our values and human rights is essential to everything that we do in the European Union and in the wider world.
It is about how we make sure that it is a thread that runs all the way through all our actions in terms of support for the work that we are doing across the world to promote the values of the European Union.
I agree as well about the strong relationship transatlantically with the United States.
I have been talking to the Brazilian Foreign Minister about the potential of again working together on development where the economies of scale and the ability to collaborate enable us to release resources in a much more effective way to certain parts of the world which are in real need.
This is a very important issue.
Just a little bit on the External Action Service.
The geographical breadth of the European Union has to be represented within the External Action Service.
I agree with that completely, but it will take me time to do it.
The question is how to do it, and that is why we are in dialogue with the Council and the Commission at the moment.
If it were very simple, we would have done it by now.
I am going to argue that, if you have a crisis in a particular country or if you realise that you need to be able to move resources, we should deal with it, but deal with it within the context of parliamentary scrutiny.
We have to make sure that this is a cohesive service that runs well, operating as an entity within the European Union, supporting and being supported by the other institutions.
The question that we always have to keep in mind is the value and importance of them.
It does not always require me to be there as well, and they would agree with that.
Finally, honourable Members talked about relationships with countries like Japan, with countries important to us in strategic partnership like Russia, the importance and value of the Middle East, where I will be travelling from Sunday onwards, and the importance and value of the Quartet, because I will travel through the Middle East.
However, despite our refusal to bow to this philosophy and our attempts to prevent this happening, reality compels us to use force even on peace missions.
I also thank the High Representative - and we will discuss this further on 23 April - for agreeing to be present at the hearing of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the subject of the external service, which we will have the chance to discuss in greater depth.
I would like to reassure those who have voiced their doubts and, at times, their suspicions, about the fact that this report might open the door to more competition, with NATO in particular, and even to isolation.
The answer is the ability of the European Union to intervene via civil and military missions in areas in which other organisations, including NATO, cannot.
NATO intervened no earlier than we did in the Horn of Africa to put a stop to events threatening our security interests.
Our strategic autonomy also refers to our ability, where necessary, not to intervene, either in unilateral military campaigns, or - and this has been pointed out by several Austrian Members - because there are neutral countries among us and because we respect their status.
Never forget the origins of this European Security and Defence Policy.
It originates in a tragic, bloody failure: that of the Balkans in the 1990s, where the European Union was incapable of coping with a major security challenge on its own continent.
Efforts must also be stepped up in implementing projects as part of the Black Sea Synergy in order to ensure more effective cooperation in this area.
The European Union must focus particular attention on relations with this country and support it on its journey to EU accession.
Relations with the United States are extremely important in helping consolidate global security and stability.
We are also arguing for a peaceful solution to the dispute over Iran's nuclear programmes and calling for the recommencement of negotiations, reiterating our opposition to any military action or threat of the use of force.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty review conference will be held in April-May 2010.
Member States must take a leading role in applying United Nations Security Council Resolution 1887, adopted in autumn 2009 (on 24 September).
Within the meaning of this resolution, Member States must place great emphasis on developing a comprehensive international agreement regulating the elimination of nuclear weapons under strict international supervision.
In addition, they need to strive to introduce two concrete measures in the aforementioned areas, in order to set an example for the rest of the world.
The EU Member States must promote the comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty and the renewal of the START Agreement between the United States and Russia.
For I hope that in a year's time, we will know what the European External Action Service looks like, and this new service is, in turn, going to have a huge influence on the development of European foreign policy.
We should go back to the fundamental values of the European Union, and use them as a basis on which to build our foreign policy.
Particular national interests should not conflict with our coherence or our community.
Mr President, some previous speakers have pointed out problems relating to the composition of the European External Action Service, which has begun work following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I consider it extremely important to adhere to the principle of geographic equality in making up the EEAS and, as with other European Union bodies, to implement positive discrimination in relation to representatives from the new Member States, which is reflected in the transition period and which makes it possible to speed up career development.
This would obviously be a waste of resources because, for example, the representative from Malta might have much more know-how with respect to the countries of North Africa, Cyprus with respect to the Middle East, Bulgaria with respect to Turkey, Poland with respect to Belarus and Ukraine, the Baltic States with respect to Russia, and so on.
Therefore, what is needed is dialogue at world level and the establishment of new principles for cooperation and for the division of roles.
The Union will not only be perceived as an institution which fights for democracy and human rights, but also as an institution which comes to people's aid in times of difficulty.
The danger from other threats is clearly growing, and so energy and food security are becoming important.
Failure to elaborate the division of roles and competences at the outset could be the cause of misunderstandings between different institutions and leaders in the Union, as well as between the EU and Member States.
Initial experiences with the function of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security, and the general expectation that she should be active and present in different places, demand that we think about appointing deputies, or involving other Commissioners in areas of her work to a greater degree, since we have so many of them.
I welcome the Albertini report outlining the main aspects of the Common Security and Foreign Policy, especially the paragraphs concerning the development of the Eastern Partnership and European policy in the Black Sea region.
I support paragraph 21 of the report which calls on the EU to implement the Nabucco project fully and as quickly as possible.
I would like to make several remarks on the European Security Strategy and the Common Security and Defence Policy.
In the European Parliament's motion for a resolution, the main threats and challenges which Europe faces have been correctly defined.
Only progress in these three areas would make the Common Security and Defence Policy more effective.
