This obsession with harmonisation has led us to a single currency that does not take account of national differences and differences in economic cycles.
This is why countries are suffering; this is partly why Ireland is suffering; and it is time we moved more towards competition, rather than to common tax bases. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report examines the annual report and the activity carried out this year.
Events in Greece and in other countries of the area naturally have complex causes.
We must therefore learn a lesson from the situation.
We need to re-balance the European monetary union, achieve greater transparency and more effective management of the crisis in the financial markets and rebuild public trust from the bottom.
It is crazy, at a time like this, when my own country already owes GBP 850 billion, that we should be borrowing another GBP 7 billion to send to Ireland.
Mr President, I want to explain the reason why I voted against Amendments 30 and 31 to Article 5 of the Gallagher report: for the very simple reason that it would separate the Bay of Biscay TAC from the rest of the area.
The argument I would make is that every coastal community, virtually in every country, could make the same argument in order to protect the interests of their fishermen.
The Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee does not seem to suggest that we can separate the fish stocks in the waters.
If we have a common fisheries policy, it should be common for all, no exceptions, no exemptions, and the long-term consequences of this are quite serious. (ES) Mr President, I voted in favour of Amendments 30 and 31, because both the distribution by area of total allowable catches (TACs) and the establishment of TACs need to take into account the characteristics and objectives of the different fleets - small-scale and industrial fleets - so that the fishing opportunities that they have had until now can be maintained.
TACs need to be differentiated by area, both in the case of horse mackerel, and in the case of other fish populations that are also covered by the common fisheries policy. (PL) Mr President, the problem of declining fish stocks is affecting not only us Europeans, but also fishermen and consumers throughout the world.
This is why it is so important to carry out an appropriate revision of the common fisheries policy, which guarantees sustainable fishing in the waters of our region.
I endorsed the report for these reasons. (FI) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report.
The reduction in fish stocks is currently a major cause for concern.
I am concerned about wild salmon stocks, especially in the Baltic region, and I think that we should ensure that these stocks could also be reestablished there and that we should start to give serious attention to making sure that fishing in the Baltic Sea is practised in a sustainable manner. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal that introductions and translocations involving the use of closed aquaculture facilities should be exempted from the permit requirement was bound to be accompanied by a more rigorous definition of the requirements that these facilities must observe.
I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to emphasise the lack of adequate support for scientific research and technological development in the field of native species rearing.
There is no doubt that, under the same general conditions, enterprises can produce and sell their products and services without public support, but not all sectors and not all areas are operating under conditions of parity.
We must realise that when we speak of coal, we are talking about areas that have no alternative to mines and should be allowed the opportunity to adopt production technologies that are competitive and compatible with the free market and with the environment.
Logically, postponing the deadline to 2018 must represent an imperative to ensure that institutions and companies take immediate action to develop technological, financial and environmental compatibility conditions that are in line with the challenges that await us. (FI) Mr President, when we speak about State aid, we also need to remember that, in some cases, it can distort competition.
For that reason, I hope that we in Europe will achieve a situation where we could gradually reduce the use of coal as a source of energy and switch to renewable energy sources.
We should be supporting the acquisition of renewable energy and its production.
I formally corrected it, but I also wanted to say so here. (PL) Mr President, I am speaking because Poland is one of those countries which have had to face the biggest problems in terms of a sudden reduction in expenditure and extraction potential in the coal industry.
I endorsed this report.
However, I am of the opinion that we do have to maintain a balance.
The objective is not to close mines just for the sake of closing mines; it is to ensure energy security - and we are treating mines as if they were businesses. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in international North-South cooperation due to the quality of its work.
Some time ago, the European Commission introduced the practice of subjecting national and regional strategy papers to parliamentary scrutiny by both the European Parliament and national parliaments.
I voted in favour of this report because I intend to support the work carried out to date by this House, a role that is even more important today as we oversee negotiations over economic partnership agreements.
In 2009, the European Commission submitted, together with the ACP countries, certain proposals for a second review of the partnership agreement and I hope that we can guarantee its survival and development as an essential institution in this process of cooperation and democratisation of the rest of the world. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mrs Joly on her report.
On 1 December, the twentieth ACP-EU plenary session will be held in Kinshasa.
As rapporteur and also deputy chair of the assembly, I will be fully committed to ensuring that the measures adopted are not empty words but become a solid commitment to continuing along the path towards a fairer world and, above all, a world without poverty. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has proved itself an essential tool for building an open and democratic dialogue, successfully involving ACP national parliaments, local authorities and non-governmental organisations.
I give my support to Mrs Joly.
Before we can talk about establishing a tax on international financial transactions, though, we need to carry out a study on its potential impact. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Stockholm Programme adopted by the European Council in December last year, is to create a European space of freedom, safety and justice, to be achieved over the next five years, with the aim of ensuring that citizens can enjoy all their fundamental rights.
The ultimate aim of Union law must therefore be to facilitate mobility and to guarantee that these same citizens can create a European judicial space as quickly as possible.
The action plan proposed by the European Commission envisages a set of measures that stem from the new instruments made available by the Treaty of Lisbon for the purposes of reconciling the needs of citizens of the single market with the different judicial traditions of Member States.
Cooperation between judicial authorities may be necessary in order to prevent crime and bring justice and legal certainty to the European internal market.
Paragraph 40 of the Berlinguer report emphasises mutual recognition of marriage and family law without any reference to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I have declined to endorse this report, both because this European principle has not been explicitly observed and because the European Conservatives and Reformists' amendment in that regard has been rejected. (SK) Mr President, I abstained from the vote because I am not convinced that Member State subsidiarity is respected in the area of family law.
The European Union must fully respect the division of powers between the Union and the Member States when creating legislation.
For this reason, I fully support an approach which consistently takes account of the various legal approaches and constitutional traditions based on the specific conditions of individual states, particularly in areas relating to the fundamental values of a given society, such as the values embodied in family law legislation.
The aim of the EU approach should be to better understand and secure the needs of all citizens in all states, and not to create some kind of monochrome society.
It is therefore essential not to overstep by force the necessary framework of the measure, which might threaten the fundamental values of the Member States in specific areas of civil and family law. (PL) Mr President, I would like to say that coal is a raw material which is very important for the welfare of society and energy security.
It is obvious, therefore, that efforts should be made to ensure permanent access to coal reserves.
However, when a mine becomes unprofitable, keeping it in operation with the use of State aid upsets the market, interferes with competitiveness and destabilises, as a result, the economy of the country concerned.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague, Mr Böge, on the proposal for a decision on mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 13 million in order to help Ireland, which was hit by serious floods in November 2009.
The amount of aid seems derisory to me (2.5% of an estimated EUR 500 million of total damage), and it has come far too late.
I strongly agree with what the report says about supporting the Commission's decision to allocate EUR 13.02 million from the EU Solidarity Fund for the benefit of Ireland in order to restore infrastructure and to implement flood prevention measures in affected areas.
This money from the Commission will help defray some of the costs that arose at the time of the crisis.
With the changing climate in Europe and throughout the world, there is an increasing number of natural disasters resulting in loss of human life and major damage.
The European Union must therefore establish measures to provide the required funding in a timely manner when such disasters occur.
In its March resolution, the European Parliament clearly expressed its position that in order to solve the problems caused by natural disasters more effectively, there needs to be a new Solidarity Fund regulation.
I believe that the review of the regulation must aim to establish a stronger and more flexible measure, the application of which would enable us to react more effectively to the new challenges of climate change and to swiftly deliver aid to the victims of natural disasters.
in writing. - Considering the illegitimacy, undemocratic structure, corruption and megalomaniac ulterior motivation of the European Union in general and the Commission, in particular, we of the UKIP cannot condone the Commission's monopolisation of public funds for any purpose whatever and believe, consequently, that any monies it directs to the repair of last year's flood damage in Ireland will not be properly used and will merely conceal the need for relief funding that is correctly disbursed and directed by democratically elected governments.
The European Union Solidarity Fund, which is intended to help countries forced to cope with natural disasters, has been mobilised 33 times since its creation eight years ago.
in writing. - (BG) I would like to explain why I voted in favour of this proposal.
I am certain that our aid will be spent in the best way possible and will help overcome the consequences of the flooding in Ireland.
I regard Ireland's application for assistance from the Solidarity Fund following the torrential rain which led to major flooding in November 2009 as important and welcome.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Ireland following the floods that caused severe damage to the agricultural sector, homes and businesses, the road network and other infrastructure.
The floods that took place in November 2009 seriously affected Ireland and caused severe damage estimated at more than EUR 520 million.
I therefore believe that the mobilisation of the fund is fully justified in order to help those who have suffered most from this natural disaster, and I congratulate the chair of the Committee on Regional Development for the speed with which she issued its opinion, thereby avoiding undue delays in the parliamentary procedure.
This report allows for the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (ESF) to help Ireland address the disaster caused by heavy rain and flooding in 2009.
The report approves the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (ESF) to help Ireland tackle the disaster caused by rain and floods in 2009.
In recent years, EU Member States have been hit by a considerable number of disasters.
Other disasters did not result in requests to deploy the fund, although they had a considerable and, in many cases, long-lasting impact on the people affected, the environment and the economy.
Yet it is also important to point out that in the first place, there must be a commitment to preventing disasters, putting into practice the recommendations recently approved by Parliament.
Under the EU Solidarity Fund, Ireland will receive EUR 13 million.
This money will be used to cover some of the cost which local authorities had to pay at the time of the crisis at the end of 2009.
The total cost of the damage done is EUR 520.9 million, and - believe it or not - that amount is below the threshold in force under the Solidarity Fund.
in writing. - I was pleased to support this proposal and would like to express my country's appreciation for the solidarity funding allocated to our country as a result of November 2009 flooding.
I believe, in fact, that the fund is a valuable tool for enabling the European Union to show solidarity with the populations of regions affected by natural disasters, by providing financial support to help ensure a swift return to normal living conditions.
The application approved during today's vote was made by Ireland, and it concerns the heavy rain that caused severe flooding in November 2009.
The Irish authorities estimate the total direct damage caused by the disaster at EUR 520.9 million.
Lastly, I would add that the fund has been mobilised for a total amount of EUR 13 022 500.
Ireland applied for assistance from the European Solidarity Fund following heavy rain which led to severe flooding in November 2009.
After evaluation of the application, the Commission has proposed to mobilise the EU Solidarity Fund for a total amount of EUR 13 022 500.
It is worth noting that this is the first agreed proposal to mobilise funds in 2010 and the amount proposed will leave at least 98% of the European Solidarity Fund available for allocation in the rest of 2010.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
In particular, heavy rainfall has frequently caused floods which have devastating consequences for the environment and result in damage that costs huge amounts of money to rectify.
The European Union Solidarity Fund is being mobilised to repair the damage caused by the floods in Ireland in 2009 (to the agricultural sector, housing, businesses, the road network and other infrastructure).
The overall cost of the damage which is a direct result of the disaster is estimated to be around EUR 520 million.
The contribution of EUR 13 million from the EU budget will help with the reconstruction work.
The Commission did well to mobilise EUR 13 022 500 of the Solidarity Fund with the parallel submission of a draft amending budget (DAB No 8/2010) following the application for assistance submitted by Ireland in connection with the flood of November 2009, which caused massive damage to the national infrastructure amounting to some EUR 520.9 million.
I believe that the concept of solidarity is connected to the idea and values underpinning the European Union.
The latter allows the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion.
I support and emphasise the rapporteur's recommendations to the Commission and, given the difficult economic situation in Europe and, in particular, in Ireland, I agree that we must show solidarity.
in writing. - We have supported this resolution based on the fact that the Commission proposes to mobilise the European Solidarity Fund in favour of Ireland on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement (IIA) of 17 May 2006.
The IIA allows the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion.
In parallel to this proposal, the Commission has presented a draft amending budget (DAB No 8/2010 of 24 September 2010) in order to enter in the 2010 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the IIA.
Ireland applied for assistance from the fund following heavy rain leading to severe flooding in November 2009.
The present proposal on mobilisation of the European Solidarity Fund (ESF) states the need to provide aid to Ireland due to the floods of November 2009, which caused huge losses in the agricultural and industrial sector, in infrastructure, particularly roads and water supply, and in residential areas.
In view of this, and recalling the disaster that struck the island of Madeira in February 2010 and the effects of the Xynthia windstorm on Europe, I welcome the Commission's proposal to grant a total of EUR 13 022 500 in aid to Ireland, based on the 'extraordinary regional disaster' criterion.
This criterion is used whenever it is shown that the damage caused has affected the majority of the region's population and that it has had serious and lasting repercussions on living conditions and economic stability in the region in question.
in writing. - I have voted in support of the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund: Ireland - floods in November 2009.
As was the case in my home country of Poland, ravaging floods have torn apart so many communities and families that it is vital to lend support to our friends in Ireland.
As a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I simply had to vote in favour of the six resolutions tabled by Mrs Matera in order to help Dutch workers made redundant as a direct result of the global economic crisis.
During the discussions on the budget, some people wanted the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to be immediately scrapped: we can see in this instance that it is still very useful in certain cases, since the consequences of the global crisis are still being felt today.
Given that the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of 821 redundancies in 70 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Nord Brabant and Zuid Holland, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree with the request to the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (ESF).
This hints at the worrying reduction in the number of printing and publishing companies in the Netherlands and, consequently, the very downturn in the economy as a whole.
The European Commission deemed this request for printing and recorded media reproduction companies justifiable, and was backed overwhelmingly by the relevant parliamentary committee.
I hope that this temporary support will help redundant workers to integrate more successfully into the labour market.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper use of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 821 people made redundant from 70 companies operating in the regions of Nord Brabant and Zuid Holland falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
These are measures that also combat the relocation of companies.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 821 workers made redundant by 70 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Nord Brabant and Zuid Holland, amounting to a sum of EUR 2 890 027 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which backs a Commission proposal to mobilise EUR 2 890 027 from the European Globalisation Fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis.
This application concerns 821 redundancies in 70 enterprises (printing and reproduction of recorded media) over a nine month period.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 821 redundancies in 70 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Nord Brabant and Zuid Holland.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up with the purpose of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to the current process of world market globalisation.
The application examined by the report, which is the nineteenth during the 2010 budget, refers to EGF mobilisation for a sum of EUR 453 632 (we note that the annual fund must not exceed EUR 500 million) requested by the Netherlands for 140 redundancies in the press sector in the Drenthe region.
The economic crisis is putting many companies in difficulty and more and more employees are losing their jobs.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund would benefit 70 different enterprises and save 821 jobs.
In December 2009, the Netherlands submitted a request for assistance to use the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in connection with the redundancies which were made in eight regions, in enterprises operating in the graphics sector.
The application concerns 821 redundancies made in 70 enterprises involved in printing and the reproduction of recorded media.
The redundancies were made in the period between 1 April and 29 December 2009 in the two contiguous regions of Nord Brabant and Zuid Holland.
The economic and financial crisis has also caused a drop in demand in the printing and publishing sector of about 32% for printed advertising material and of between 7.5% and 18.2% for magazines and newspapers.
The printing and publishing industry in the Netherlands went through a major restructuring process in order to be able to continue to compete with similar sectors in Turkey, China and India.
Given that the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of 140 redundancies in two companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Drenthe, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree that EGF aid is not a replacement for actions that are the responsibility of firms under national legislation or collective agreements, nor does it finance the restructuring of firms or sectors.
Despite lending my support to all the requests to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund presented by the Netherlands concerning the severe wave of redundancies which has plagued two areas of the graphics sector - printing and reproduction of recorded media and publishing - I believe that the Dutch authorities could provide more details about the scope of the measures and their accuracy, so as to allow these measures to be assessed more effectively.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper use of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 140 people made redundant from two companies in Drenthe falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 140 workers made redundant by two companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Drenthe, amounting to a sum of EUR 453 632 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which backs an application to mobilise the European Globalisation Fund concerning 140 redundancies in 2 enterprises (printing and reproduction of recorded media) over a nine month period in the Drenthe Division in the Netherlands.
It forms part of a package of six interrelated applications dealing with redundancies in eight different regions of the Netherlands.
There has been a substantial decrease in demand in the printing and publishing sector due to the economic crisis.
I voted for Barbara Matera's draft reports on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for the benefit of the Netherlands, as I think that the European Union must offer support to redundant workers, providing them with dynamic, efficient financial assistance.
Against the backdrop of the current economic and social crisis, our actions must be targeted at granting aid to those who need it.
On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that EU Member States can and must ask for the aid granted by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide this aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 140 redundancies in two companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Drenthe.
in writing. - (DE) Growing numbers of people are being made unemployed as a result of globalisation measures.
In the nine-month reference period from 1 April 2009 to 29 December 2009, there were 140 redundancies in two companies in the Dutch region of Drenthe.
Now, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is being mobilised to provide a contribution of EUR 453 632.
I have voted in favour of the report, because it allows the EGF to fulfil its obligations.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund would benefit two different enterprises and save 140 jobs.
This application is based on Article 2(c) of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) Regulation, and is part of a larger package of six interrelated applications, all of which concern redundancies in eight different NUTS II regions in the Netherlands from companies operating in the graphics sector, which has been hard hit by the global economic and financial crisis.
More specifically, this concerns 140 redundancies from two companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Drenthe, a province which is facing a very difficult situation, both because it has the third highest unemployment rate in the Netherlands (7.5%) and because it has a per capita income that is significantly below the national average.
Given that the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of 129 redundancies in nine companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Limburg, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree with the Commission's proposal of an alternative to unused European Social Fund resources as a source of payment appropriations for mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created separately as a specific instrument, with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget headings for transfers.
The field of printing and reproduction of recorded media, which forms part of the graphics sector, has been particularly eroded in the Netherlands, as shown by the various applications to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
The region of Drenthe, which has the third highest unemployment rate in the country, has not remained immune to this trend.
It is worth emphasising the need for this fund to be mobilised quickly and effectively, without excessive red tape, so as to contribute to better training for the workers made redundant, and thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market in better conditions than those in which they left.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper use of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 129 people made redundant from 9 companies operating in the region of Limburg falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 129 workers made redundant by nine companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Limburg, amounting to a sum of EUR 549 946 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I support this measure of European solidarity with the 129 workers in 9 enterprises (printing and reproduction) who are facing redundancy.
The EUR 549 946 will offer some assistance to them in being reintegrated into the labour market.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 129 redundancies in nine companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Limburg.
Between 1 April 2009 and 29 December 2009, 129 workers were made redundant by a machinery and equipment manufacturer in Limburg in the Netherlands.
Now an application has been made to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for a contribution of EUR 549 946 to help those affected.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund can save 129 jobs in nine different enterprises.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
This application is based on Article 2(c) of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) Regulation, and is part of a larger package of six interrelated applications, all of which concern redundancies in eight different NUTS II regions in the Netherlands from companies operating in the graphics sector, which has been hard hit by the global economic and financial crisis.
More specifically, this concerns 129 redundancies from nine companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the NUTS II region of Limburg, a province which is facing a very difficult situation, both because it has the second highest unemployment rate in the Netherlands (8%) and because it has a per capita income that is significantly below the national average.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper use of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 650 people made redundant from 45 companies operating in the regions of Gelderland and Overijssel falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 650 workers made redundant by 45 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Overijssel, amounting to a sum of EUR 2 013 619 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I welcome the report, which backs plans to release EUR 2 013 619 to help workers in Overijssel made redundant due to the downturn in the printing industry.
This support from the European Globalisation Fund should help reintegrate the workers into the labour market and I am pleased to see European solidarity in operation.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of cases concerning 650 redundancies in 45 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Overijssel.
In the nine-month reference period from 1 April 2009 to 29 December 2009, 650 workers were made redundant by 45 companies in the two Dutch regions of Gelderland and Overijssel.
In order to improve the future prospects of people who have lost their jobs, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created, with annual funding of EUR 500 million, to intervene in cases such as these.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund can save 650 jobs in 45 different enterprises.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
The request submitted by the Netherlands for assistance under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 650 redundancies from 45 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Overijssel fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened to include its intervention in situations like this, in which, as a direct result of the global economic and financial crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
I also agree with the Commission's proposal of an alternative to unused European Social Fund resources as a source of payment appropriations for mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created separately as a specific instrument, with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budget headings for transfers.
The crisis in the graphics sector in the Netherlands has affected a number of the country's regions, including Noord Holland and Utrecht.
This is one of six applications that have been submitted by the Netherlands and have merited the support of the European Commission and the Committee on Budgets.
I, too, support it, and hope that the sector is able to reorganise itself and that the redundant workers can find new jobs, whether in the same area of printing and reproduction of recorded media, or in others to which they are or could become suited.
The awarded support could be a step towards this.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper use of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 720 people made redundant from 79 companies operating in the regions of Noord Holland and Utrecht falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
This is one of the reports on the six applications by the Netherlands for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
There are some specific aspects of these six applications that is important to point out, in addition to the delay in the process of approval by the European Commission, which, however, is now the norm unfortunately.
These specific aspects refer to the content of these six applications, all of which concern redundancies in eight different regions of the Netherlands, in small companies of the graphics sector, specifically, printing and reproduction of recorded media and publishing activities.
This time, a total of EUR 2 266 625 of the EGF has been mobilised for the benefit of the Netherlands.
We have here a case of coincidental timing: Parliament has been asked to give its opinion today on six requests for European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) assistance that have been submitted by the Netherlands while, at the same time, the 2011 budget negotiations are stalling because of the refusal by the Netherlands and by two other Member States to engage in a responsible and constructive dialogue on the future of the European budget.
Today's votes are therefore, in my view, an opportunity to point out that the European budget is not just an accounting tool that everyone finds daunting: it is, first and foremost, the 'power' behind the European Union that enables it to work day in day out to protect its citizens, and particularly through the EGF, to protect unemployed workers.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 720 workers made redundant by 79 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Utrecht, amounting to a sum of EUR 2 266 625 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I am pleased that EUR 2 266 625 has been made available through the European Globalisation Fund in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the printing industry due to the global economic crisis.
This application concerns 720 redundancies in 79 enterprises in the Noord Holland and Utrecht Division of the Netherlands.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 720 redundancies in 79 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Utrecht.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund would benefit 79 different enterprises and save 720 jobs.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
The request submitted by the Netherlands for assistance under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 720 redundancies from 79 companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Utrecht fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened to include its intervention in situations like this, in which, as a direct result of the global economic and financial crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
I also agree with the request to the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (ESF).
In the contiguous regions of Noord Holland and Zuid Holland alone, 598 workers lost their jobs in publishing over a period of just nine months.
Competition with third countries, along with the financial and economic crisis ravaging the whole of Europe, is a crucial factor in what has been happening, making it clear that solutions need to be sought to people's immediate problems: their reintegration into the labour market, and their medium- and long-term subsistence.
The EGF has a palliative role and can serve as a stimulus, but it is manifestly insufficient to solve the serious problems affecting so many families on its own.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, the proper application of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European individuals and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, while, at the same time, developing a new, qualified workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This plan for intervention in the Netherlands to help 598 people made redundant from 8 companies operating in the regions of Noord Holland and Zuid Holland falls within the same framework.
I therefore hope that the European institutions will redouble their effects in implementing measures that speed up and improve the rates of utilisation of such an important resource as the EGF, which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of the Netherlands because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 598 workers made redundant by eight companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 58 (publishing activities) in the two NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Zuid Holland, amounting to a sum of EUR 2 326 459 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I welcome this report and the support the European Globalisation Fund is giving to workers made redundant.
This proposal is for EUR 2 326 459 to assist 598 workers, from 8 enterprises in the printing and reproduction media, who are losing their jobs because of the economic crisis.
This is an important example of European solidarity.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of the relocations that occur in a globalised world.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating their access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is now appropriate to provide aid to the Netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 598 redundancies in eight companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 58 (publishing activities) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Zuid Holland.
During the nine-month reference period from 1 April 2009 to 29 December 2009, there were 598 redundancies in a total of eight companies in Noord Holland and Zuid Holland.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established to cushion the impact of social injustices of this kind.
Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund would benefit eight different enterprises and save 598 jobs.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
The request submitted by the Netherlands for assistance under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 598 redundancies from eight companies operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 58 (publishing activities) in the two contiguous NUTS II regions of Noord Holland and Zuid Holland fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened to include its intervention in situations like this, in which, as a direct result of the global economic and financial crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, and I hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will contribute to the successful integration of these workers into the labour market.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) receives annual funding of EUR 500 million with the aim of providing financial support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns.
Estimates indicate that between 35 000 and 50 000 employees could benefit from this support each year.
Regarding the request submitted by the Netherlands for assistance in relation to 140 redundancies from two companies in NACE Revision 2 Division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the region of Drenthe, I refer to all the arguments set out in my declaration of vote regarding report to justify my vote in favour of this report.
I abstained on all of Mrs Matera's reports on mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to help various Dutch regions, not because I oppose these plans, but to issue a warning to the Dutch Government, which has a populist and anti-European policy.
in writing. - As on several occasions in the past, we have supported this text which: 1.
Recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market; 3.
Stresses that, in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment; reiterates that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
The package of six applications from the Netherlands to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) received the support of Parliament.
Of course, I also voted in favour of the Dutch applications, because it is important for us to provide rapid support for citizens of a Member State who have lost their jobs and this is why the EGF was created.
That is why I am in favour of this proposal.
The report also stresses the importance of these provisions for the rural economy in Germany, particularly with regard to small distilleries.
Given the importance for all small-scale distilleries of their participation in the German Alcohol Monopoly and the need for further transition towards the market, as well as the fact that the reports presented do not demonstrate an infringement of the competition rules in the single market, I think that the monopoly extension period should have ended by 2013 at the latest, the date when the new CAP comes into force.
Nevertheless, I understand the need to extend the period for phasing the monopoly out, given the economic needs of the German rural economy, particularly in some of the country's federal states.
The Commission proposal is accompanied by a schedule of reduction in the quantities of alcohol produced under the monopoly until their total abolition on 1 January 2018.
The total quantity allowed to be granted as State aid is limited to EUR 110 million per year and mainly goes to farmers supplying the raw material and distilleries using it.
However, the actual budget used has been smaller than that amount and has been steadily decreasing since 2003.
Moreover, a large number of distilleries have already made efforts to prepare for their entry into the free market by creating cooperatives, investing in more energy-efficient equipment and increasingly marketing their alcohol directly.
In contrast to the rapporteur's position, we believe that intervention in the markets and regulation instruments should, in fact, be the rule rather than the exception.
The final extension of the German alcohol monopoly which was adopted today represents an important step forward.
It gives our fruit distilleries, in particular, the security to plan for the future beyond 2010.
However, it is now essential to make intensive use of this period of time to put in place the necessary adaptation measures, because there will be no further extensions of the monopoly.
I would like to express my support for this report, principally because the German government aid to the alcohol monopoly goes mainly to farmers and small distilleries.
This type of instrument should be extended to other Member States, so that they, too, will be able to support their economies.
Thus, the aid is no longer fully utilised and measures have been taken, such as the establishment of cooperatives and changes in direct marketing methods, in preparation for this opening up of the market.
For this reason, I support an extension of the arrangement.
Currently, as an exception to State aid rules, the German authorities may grant State aid under the German Alcohol Monopoly for products marketed as alcohol of agricultural origin.
The current derogation ends on 31 December 2010 and the draft regulation extends the application of the derogation and proposes that the production/sales monopoly shall gradually decrease so that the monopoly will finally cease to exist as from 1 January 2018.
However, in line with the recommendations of this report, we have to move towards the total abolition of agricultural bonded distilleries from 2013 and small-scale flat-rate distilleries from 2017.
In this context, we need legal certainty and, therefore, an extension of the monopoly over a longer period.
Of course, the issue of the monopoly could have been combined with the phasing out of the common agricultural policy and the new regulations which will apply from 2013.
The important thing is to ensure that the adaptation process is designed to allow the distilleries to survive after the monopoly has come to an end.
I agree with the rapporteur on this issue.
For this reason, I have abstained from voting.
Firstly, I believe that an impact assessment should have been carried out on a regular basis and that the period of extension of the monopoly should not have surpassed 2013, the date of the entry into force of the new common agricultural policy (CAP).
However, given the importance for the small-scale distilleries of their participation in the monopoly and the need for further transition towards the market, and given the fact that reports presented do not demonstrate an infringement of competition in the single market, I support the extension.
in writing. - Our group has supported this text and the line taken by the rapporteur in the sense that it is in favour of the proposal presented, while considering that several points need to be taken into account for the implementation of the regulation.
The rapporteur thinks a regular impact assessment should have been carried out and that the period of extension of the monopoly should not have surpassed 2013, the date of the entry into force of the new CAP.
However, given the importance for the small-scale distilleries of their participation in the monopoly and the need for further transition towards the market, and given the fact that reports presented do not demonstrate an infringement of competition in the single market, the rapporteur is ready to support the proposal.
I voted in favour of this report which authorises the addition of a further 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the existing list of 8 619 products benefiting from duty-free treatment upon importation into the EU, which is due to be implemented on 1 January 2011, as I believe that it is vital that duty-free treatment begins straight away next year, given that the US will make the implementation of the update conditional upon its entry into force on 1 January.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Moreira, for having highlighted the need to carry out periodic reviews of the list of pharmaceutical and chemical products that enter the European Union duty-free.
I support this measure - in fact, I voted in favour of it - because the manufacturing scenario in which the pharmaceutical industry operates unfolds at a frantic pace and it is therefore essential to update the list, which currently includes more than 8 000 products, on a constant basis.
All the Member States, which were already in favour of the previous adjustments, have given their consent to the proposal to extend this list by including 718 new products.
Lastly, I support the mechanism implemented, which protects the interests and health of European consumers.
The proposal sends out a strong signal to the markets.
It also has the effect of extending the boundaries of the potential market for the results of certain scientific research sectors, thereby encouraging investment in those sectors and, with it, the fight against diseases for which there is still no effective cure.
I voted for this report because I advocate the addition of a further 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the list of products benefiting from bound duty-free treatment upon importation into the EU.
The arrangement is unanimously supported by the pharmaceutical industry because it eliminates tariffs on inputs and intermediaries that have to be paid even in connection with intra-company trade, thereby facilitating international trade in these products and benefiting pharmaceutical companies.
This issue is not controversial, as there is consensus among the stakeholders, and it has the support of the Member States.
Lists are put together by the industry and decided on by consensus by the participants.
This addition of products is necessary to respond to the rapidly changing product environment in the pharmaceutical industry.
The intended date of implementation is 1 January 2011.
in writing. - The WTO duty-free rules for pharmaceutical ingredients are universally supported by the pharmaceutical industry.
The EU as a whole is a key producer and user of pharmaceutical products and I was happy to support this report.
I voted for it.
The trade in pharmaceutical products is an important part of world trade.
The inclusion of a further 718 products on the list for bound duty-free treatment is a beneficial measure, at both an economic and a public health level.
The decision to add these products to the 8 619 already on the list may also have an impact on the final price of medicines, which is beneficial for everyone.
The list of products that benefit from duty-free treatment, which originally contained 6 000 items, and which was created by the industry and reviewed by the states in question, will now be expanded to include more than 8 600 pharmaceutical and chemical products.
Indeed, I voted in favour because I believe it is important to periodically review the list of pharmaceutical products that are exempt from customs duties, in view of the rapidly changing product environment in the pharmaceutical industry.
I therefore commend the work done and confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - This text basically concerns the proposal inviting the Council and Parliament to authorise the addition of a further 718 pharmaceutical and chemical products to the already existing list of 8 619 products benefiting from bound duty-free treatment upon importation into the EU.
This decision was made by agreement with the interested parties and with the unanimous consent of all participants and all Member States.
I agree that the Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Ukraine should be renewed for another five-year period.
This decision will offer both the Community and Ukraine the opportunity to continue, to improve and strengthen cooperation in areas of shared scientific and technological interests.
Both Ukraine and the European Union should obtain mutual benefits from their scientific and technological progress, implementing special research programmes.
By applying this decision, it will be possible to exchange specific knowledge and pass on practical experience for the benefit of the research community, industry and citizens.
I therefore agree strongly that Ukraine and the European Union should continue to cooperate closely in this field.
Scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and other countries is vital for technological development, with all its advantages, including in relation to improving people's quality of life.
I hope that the agreement that has just been renewed continues to prove advantageous to both parties.
The Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Ukraine was concluded in Copenhagen on 4 July 2002 and came into force on 11 February 2003 with the aim of encouraging, developing and facilitating cooperative activities in areas of common interest, such as research and development in science and technology.
I voted in favour of this agreement as I believe that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the common European Research Area, in that it serves as a catalyst for the strategic partnership between the EU and the Ukraine.
I therefore hope that this renewal will bear fruit for both parties.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which concerns the reconsultation of Parliament on previous Council decisions concerning the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Union and Ukraine.
At a summit in Ukraine in November 2008, both parties confirmed their interest in renewal of the agreement for a further five years and I welcome this.
I welcome the approval in the European Parliament of the draft decision sanctioning the renewal of the Agreement for Scientific and Technological Cooperation with Ukraine.
The importance of these sectors to economic and social development in both the European Union and Ukraine is acknowledged through the cooperation in various areas of common interest: the environment and climate change, health, green energy, the information society, industry and agriculture, etc.
Not only access to the research infrastructure but also the exchange of bilateral and multilateral experience between researchers in the EU and Ukraine can help increase the financial efficiency of the projects implemented, thereby reducing the duplication of effort and resources used.
Ukraine's academic community must seriously assess the competitive advantages it gains from collaborating with the EU and use the European funds as a means of developing its strengths and not only as an alternative source of funding.
The Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Ukraine, in force since February 2003, has been a success and has played an important role for both parties.
We must use all available opportunities to help Ukrainian industry integrate with the European Union as soon as possible.
In this context, the Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Ukraine is advantageous to both parties.
In order to promote technical progress in the face of competition in a globalised world and in the light of the benefits which technological developments bring not only to our everyday lives, but also, for example, in the field of medicine, I have supported the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation with Ukraine.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Ukraine will enable the parties to achieve significant progress and mutual benefits.
This agreement should enable Ukraine and the EU to benefit mutually from the scientific and technical progress made through their research programmes, at the same time enabling the transfer of knowledge to benefit the scientific community, industry and Europeans.
in writing. - Very easy vote, this one.
Scientific and technological cooperation between the European Union and other countries is vital for technological development, with all its advantages, including in relation to improving people's quality of life.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement between the EU and the Faroe Islands.
The EU and the Faroes have concluded their negotiations on establishing a scientific and technological cooperation agreement, which was initialled on 13 July 2009.
The agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal opportunities to access the programmes and activities relevant to the purposes of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, and equitable sharing of intellectual property rights.
This scientific and technological association agreement will help to structure and improve cooperation on these matters between the EU and the Faroes, through regular meetings of its Joint Committee, in which specific cooperation activities can be planned.
I hope that the agreement that has just been adopted proves advantageous to both parties.
The EU and the Faroe Islands have concluded their negotiations on the establishment of an agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, with the aim of facilitating free movement and residence for researchers involved in activities covered by this agreement and in order to facilitate the cross-border movement of goods for use in such activities.
I voted in favour of this agreement as I believe that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the common European Research Area.
I therefore hope that the renewal of the agreement will bear fruit for both parties.
I voted against the Agreement between the European Union and the government of the Faroes on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, not because I am against scientific cooperation between the Union and the Faroe Islands, but because I believe that pressure should start to be put on the Faroe Islands so that the repeated slaughter of pilot whales - almost 1 000 of them are killed each year - stops once and for all.
As long as these massacres are perpetrated, I shall, in future, vote against any agreement or financial aid arrangement between the European Union and the Faroe Islands.
in writing. - The Commission negotiated on behalf of the Union an agreement with the government of the Faroes on scientific and technological cooperation in June 2010.
I voted for this report which approves the proposal.
The Agreement between the European Union and the government of the Faroes on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, in force since July 2009, has been a success and has played an important role for both parties.
Its renewal therefore confirms this success and we hope that it will continue to do so in the future.
Furthermore, the agreement will promote the mobility of students and researchers from higher education.
This makes cooperation in science and technology even more important.
Against this background, we should welcome the fact that a series of agreements have been reached with other countries to promote this cooperation by means of workshops, meetings and seminars, for example.
Now we are about to renew our agreement with a group of islands in the North Atlantic, the Faroe Islands.
In order to encourage technological progress, I have voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with the Faroe Islands.
I voted in favour of the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the government of the Faroes on Scientific and Technological Cooperation as I am convinced that aligning our efforts in these strategic areas can be beneficial to both parties.
in writing. - (BG) Innovation and globalisation are the two main sources of economic development across the globe.
They have a direct effect on productivity, employment and the welfare of citizens, and provide an opportunity to resolve some of the challenges facing the world, for example, healthcare and the environment.
As their role is becoming increasingly visible and their characteristics clearer, policies must be adapted to them.
The importance of science and technology to the development of Europe and Japan and the fact that both are confronted by similar challenges regarding economic growth, industrial competitiveness, employment, sustainable development and climate change mean that both the EU and Japan have expressed their desire to improve and intensify their cooperation in areas of shared interest, such as science and technology.
in writing. - The Commission has negotiated an agreement on cooperation in science and technology with Japan, signed on 30 November 2009.
This agreement gives the green light to the European Union to make use of technology from Japan, which is one of the most progressive industrial nations.
This is a great step forward on the part of the European Union.
However, I should like to hope that this cooperation will be two-way, as the experience of working with Japanese companies indicates that the Japanese side does not always abide by this principle.
Japan is a role model in the field of technological development.
The country is not only well-known for exporting its high-tech products; they are also of great importance to its citizens.
The requirements of the Lisbon Strategy and the Europe 2020 strategy, where the European Union has set itself ambitious targets in the field of technology, also play a role here.
The EU and Japan are facing very similar challenges in terms of economic growth and industrial competitiveness.
I voted in favour of the report because I consider it to be right and necessary to mobilise the Solidarity Fund for victims of the floods that occurred in previous years.
In this case, the EU funds will directly benefit those affected.
Scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and other countries is vital for technological development, with all its advantages, including in relation to improving people's quality of life.
Scientific and technological cooperation between the European Union and Jordan is one of the priorities in the collaboration between the EU and Mediterranean countries through the European Neighbourhood Policy and the EU's strategy of strengthening ties with neighbouring countries.
As the President of the Delegation for relations with the Mashreq countries, I am pleased to vote in favour of this report, the aim of which is to strengthen cooperation in science and technology between the European Union and Jordan.
The country is also well integrated into international and regional scientific networks.
I hope that the agreement that has just been adopted proves advantageous to both parties.
Scientific and technological cooperation between the European Union and Jordan has been one of the priorities of the Euro-Mediterranean association agreement, which has been in force since 2002.
I voted in favour of this agreement as I believe that its renewal contributes to strengthening the creation of the common European Research Area, in that it serves as a catalyst for the strategic partnership between the EU and Jordan, which, by virtue of its strategic location in the Middle East, may have an impact on promoting scientific cooperation with countries in that region.
The agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has been under negotiation since 2008, and has only just been concluded.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of renewing the agreement with the Kingdom of Jordan.
I hope that aligning our efforts in these strategic areas will be beneficial for both parties.
I congratulate Mrs Patrão Neves for having brought the attention of this Chamber to the renewal of the partnership agreement with the Solomon Islands.
With the new Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has acquired greater powers over partnership agreements in the fisheries sector, and with the reform of the common fisheries policy, the new agreements involve a commitment to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries in all areas of the world.
I voted in favour because this agreement involves promoting cooperation at sub-regional level, thus respecting the European goal of strengthening the framework of regional fishery management organisations as a means of promoting fishery governance.
In February 2004, the Solomon Islands and the European Community signed a three-year FPA, which entered into force on 9 October 2006.
I agree that this agreement should be repealed and replaced by a new version, which belongs to a set of three agreements with the central and western Pacific region that also comprises partnership agreements with Kiribati and the Federated States of Micronesia.
Under the agreements with African and Pacific countries, part of the EU's financial contribution is aimed at supporting national fisheries policies based on the principle of sustainability.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal on a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the EU and the Solomon Islands, but with serious reservations.
On this particular occasion, there are two problems that must be solved methodically and purposefully.
Bilateral fisheries agreements between the European Union and third countries are of significant economic benefit to the EU.
The disadvantages of the new agreement are an increase in the contribution to be paid by shipowners, a lower level of profitability for the EU than other tuna fisheries agreements and the same financial support from the EU in return for lower catch quotas.
According to the rapporteur, the benefits of the agreement include the fact that the Solomon Islands need foreign exchange reserves to maintain their macro-economic stability, that the agreed reference tonnage of 4 000 tonnes of fish is a relatively large amount for the EU, and that there is a need to pursue cooperation on a regional basis with a view to achieving sustainability beyond EU waters.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a partnership agreement between the European Union and the Solomon Islands because I believe that that agreement essentially serves the interests of both parties.
I congratulate Mrs Patrão Neves on having brought the renewal of the Partnership Agreement with the Solomon Islands to the attention of this House.
I voted in favour because, under the agreement, cooperation is to be promoted at subregional level, thus meeting the European objective of strengthening regional fisheries management organisations and, in that way, fostering fisheries governance.
in writing. - The Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and the Solomon Islands expired last October.
The new Protocol is valid from 9 October 2009 to 8 October 2012 and is already provisionally applied pending the European Parliament consent procedure.
According to Article 43 paragraph 2 and Article 218 paragraph 6(a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament can either consent or decline to consent.
I share the rapporteur's concern that the Commission should examine not just the specific issue of the standard rate and other rates of value added tax (VAT), but also the broader issue of a new VAT strategy, including its scope and derogations.
I welcome the Commission's intention to launch a Green Paper on revising the VAT system with the goal of creating an environment that is more favourable to business, and a system that is simpler and more robust for the Member States.
With its proposal, the Commission proposes to extend by 5 years the current requirement for EU countries to have a minimum standard VAT rate of 15%.
The Commission proposes that the extension should take effect on 1 January 2011 for a period ending on 31 December 2015.
To maintain the degree of harmonisation of rates already achieved, the Commission has twice submitted proposals providing for a standard rate band with a minimum rate of 15% and a maximum rate of 25%.
The band was derived from the rates applied in practice in the Member States, where the standard rates had always varied between 15% and 25%.
In both cases, the proposals to approximate rates were amended by the Council which kept only the principle of the minimum rate.
I agree with the Commission that the purpose of the extension is not only to give businesses the necessary legal certainty, but also to allow further evaluation of the appropriate level of the standard VAT rate at EU level.
I support the rapporteur in his assertion that the current VAT system, partly due to an increase in its complexity, has not kept pace with growth in the internal market and actually places companies and small and medium-sized enterprises at a disadvantage by considerably affecting their competitiveness.
I agree with the Commission's proposal for a five-year extension of the current requirement for EU Member States to have a minimum standard value added tax (VAT) rate of 15%, based on Article 113 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I also think that extending the transitional arrangement for the minimum VAT rate until 31 December 2015 can prevent structural imbalances in the European Union.
The renewal of the minimum standard rate of value added tax (VAT) of 15% in Member States proposed by the Commission is founded on legal certainty.
The Commission proposes that the extension takes effect on 1 January 2011 for a period ending on 31 December 2015.
The purpose of the extension is not only to provide businesses with the necessary legal certainty, but also to allow for a better evaluation of the appropriate level of the standard VAT rate at EU level.
He also takes the opportunity to insist that the Council should move towards a definitive system before 31 December 2015, while the Commission should submit legislative proposals to replace the current transitional rate by 2013.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which examines a Commission proposal to extend by 5 years to 31 December 2015 the requirement for EU countries to have a minimum standard VAT rate of 15%.
We should remember that the current VAT system, with its increasing complexity, and not only in terms of rates, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market.
Furthermore, as Parliament has pointed out in the past, the VAT system, as currently designed and implemented by the Member States, has weaknesses that fraudsters use to their advantage, costing billions of euro in tax revenue.
The new VAT strategy should aim to reduce administrative burdens, removing tax obstacles and improving the business environment, particularly for SMEs and labour-intensive enterprises, whilst ensuring the robustness of the system against fraud.
This is an extremely important issue for the development of European entrepreneurship as a whole.
There must be a harmonised system of VAT rates, applicable to all European Union countries.
On the one hand, they could lead to attempts to introduce tax sovereignty for the EU through the back door and, on the other, regulations of this kind represent an intrusion into the sovereignty of the Member States.
The Member States must retain the power to set their own tax rates, because each country must decide for itself on its own priorities, as this depends on the extent to which the state spends money in different areas.
I strongly oppose the extension of the mandatory levy of a minimum standard VAT rate of 15% for a further five years.
As far as VAT is concerned, this allows us to prevent the increasingly sharp differences between the standard rates applied in Member States from causing structural imbalances and distortions of competition.
The deviation between standard rates applied currently ranges between 15% and 25% and is sufficient to guarantee the correct operation of the internal market.
The postponement will make it possible to give companies the necessary legal certainty but also to carry out further evaluations with regard to a satisfactory level of standard VAT rates throughout the EU.
The aim of the report is to extend by a further five years the current requirement for EU countries to have a minimum standard VAT rate of 15%.
I voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the Commission's proposal for a five-year extension of the current requirement for EU Member States to have a minimum standard value added tax (VAT) rate of 15%.
in writing. - We are in the majority in Parliament voting in favour of this text, which states that the European Parliament, having regard to the Commission proposal to the Council, having regard to Article 113 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union pursuant to which the Council consulted Parliament (C7-0173/2010), having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee, having regard to Rule 55 of its Rules of Procedure, and having regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, approves the Commission proposal as amended; calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, in accordance with Article 293(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; instructs its President to forward its position to the Council, the Commission and the national parliaments.
While the European Commission repeatedly proposed introducing a maximum rate of 25%, the European Council did not support this.
At the same time, the standard rate does not currently exceed 25% in any Member State.
In addition, this report ensures legal certainty for our entrepreneurs, who will know that for the next five years, European legislation will prevent the standard rate of VAT from rising.
The European Commission's proposal provides for a five-year extension of the current requirement for EU Member States to have a minimum standard value added tax (VAT) rate of 15% until 15 December 2015.
Moreover, I agree, not only with the rapporteur's stance on the directive, but also with the tenor of the notes to his report.
As the rapporteur points out, the current VAT system, with its increased complexity, not just in terms of rates, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market.
According to the new VAT strategy, we should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax obstacles and improve the business environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
I voted in favour of the European Central Bank (ECB) annual report because I think that measures to maintain a low inflation rate, close to 2%, while increasing liquidity in the markets, prevented the collapse of many financial institutions.
We have witnessed a contraction of gross domestic product, a drop in economic activity and an increase in budget deficits, resulting in reduced tax receipts and creating unsustainable public debt: it has been difficult to achieve figures comparable with those existing before the crisis.
This situation is a result of the lack of structural reforms within the EU, which is so obvious in the events in Greece and other countries of the euro area.
The report on the European Central Bank annual report shows the European Parliament to be the most consistent champion and supporter of the attack by capital on the workers throughout the European Union.
It welcomes the money package made available at EU and Member State level for the stock exchange and other sectors of capital, in order to ensure that it remains profitable during the capitalist crisis.
It supports all the barbaric measures against the working and grassroots classes applied by the bourgeois governments in all the Member States of the EU.
In order to get the EU out of the capitalist economic crisis, the political representatives of capital propose that the rate of capitalist restructurings in all the Member States be stepped up, so as to maintain the profitability of the monopoly groups, at the expense of the workers, who are being called upon to pay for the crisis.
During the crisis, the ECB adjusted interest rates down to 1% and continued unprecedented non-standard measures to support credit throughout 2009.
I support the idea that lifting these measures needs to be well timed and coordinated with national governments.
In particular, it would be helpful if the ECB were to carry out a global, rather than regional, assessment of inflation in its monetary policy for setting intervention rates to exit the crisis.
In the European Parliament's resolution on the ECB annual report 2009, it is noted that the principles of the Stability and Growth Pact were not always fully respected in the past and therefore, it is necessary to ensure that in future, this pact is applied more coherently and effectively in the Member States.
I supported this resolution and believe that a monetary union needs strong coordination of economic policies and for the current gap in macro-prudential supervision to be closed by establishing a European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB).
It is particularly important to call on the European Commission not to simply limit itself to amending the regulation on credit rating agencies, which would increase the liability of these agencies, but to present a proposal on the establishment of a European Credit Rating Agency which would facilitate an objective assessment of the economic and financial position of the Member States.
I voted in favour of the resolution by Parliament as I agree that the financial crisis in some countries within the euro area is a serious matter and reflects a certain dysfunction of the euro area, and because I believe that this shows the need for reform and for stronger coordination between the various economic policies.
I also agree with the call for the unrestricted and more coherent application of the Stability and Growth Pact, as I believe that the pact should be complemented by the development of an early warning system to detect possible inconsistencies, such as in the form of a 'European semester', in order not only to enhance surveillance and economic policy coordination so as to ensure fiscal consolidation, but - beyond the budgetary dimension - to address other macro-economic imbalances and strengthen enforcement procedures.
I would like to call upon the Commission to put forward proposals to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact by including specific targets for closing the competitiveness gap between European economies in order to stimulate job-creating growth.
However, the very existence of unexpected variations in the key macro-economic indicators should make us stop and think about the intermediate mechanisms at work between monetary policy and the real economy.
The macro-economic performance of that Baltic state aside, in accordance with the standards required by the EU, greater convergence must be achieved among the euro area countries, not least to increase the capacity for action on the part of the institutions, which safeguard its stability and value.
I voted for the annual ECB report for 2009.
As rapporteur for my political group, I also highlighted the limitations of the Stability and Growth Pact in its current form.
The pact should be supplemented by an early warning system which will enhance the coordination of economic policies within the European Union.
I voted for this report because I advocate reform and stronger coordination of the economic policies within the euro area, given the dysfunction that the financial crisis has caused in the current system.
The proposals aiming to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact must take into account the competitiveness gap between European economies in order to stimulate growth that pays particular attention to job creation.
The creation of a European Systemic Risk Board and the replacing of the supervisory committees with three new supervisory authorities are measures that will be beneficial in terms of better economic supervision.
Real GDP in the euro area shrank by 4.1% in 2009, the average general government deficit ratio increased to about 6.3% and the public debt-to-GDP ratio rose from 69.4% in 2008 to 78.7% in 2009.
The ECB acted correctly by adjusting interest rates down to 1% and continuing with substantial and unprecedented non-standard measures to support credit.
This crisis has clearly shown the need for greater transparency and better risk management in financial markets, sound public finances, and the urgent need to regain credibility.
Moreover, the banks that it saved, or their sister banks, are the ones that are today speculating against it.
The Member States that have fared best are those that have retained some flexibility with regard to their currency and their exchange rates.
in writing. - This initiative by the Parliament is of special importance this year as it gives MEPs a chance to give their opinion on how the European Central Bank has reacted to the banking crisis.
Our most important proposal for improvement should be put into practice consistently.
The new Treaty of Lisbon, which came into force on 1 December 2009, made the ECB into a European Union body.
The ECB was, and is, a reliable ally in finding a balance between sound public finances and the necessary reduction of debt in the Member States.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which examined the ECB's annual report for 2009.
The serious economic crisis that has spread across the entire world has made itself very keenly felt in the EU.
The response of the European Central Bank to the crisis has been effective, although it has been guilty at times of acting late or with a lack of assertiveness, particularly in relation to the policy of reducing interest rates, which was more radical and effective in the United Kingdom and the US Federal Reserve.
In reality, it is essential not only to define the state of affairs but also to prevent any symptoms that threaten the development of the economy.
Only then can preparations be made in time and financial debts such as Greece's EUR 110 billion budget deficit, Hungary's EUR 28 billion budget deficit and Latvia's EUR 7.8 million budget deficit be avoided altogether.
The European Central Bank has played an important and fundamental role during the economic crisis of recent years, and its representatives have often been instrumental in pointing out problems in the euro area.
The Member States have not always listened, but the coordination provided by the Frankfurt-based institution can only be regarded in a positive light.
The aid package put together and provided to Greece, just like the rapid responses, would not have been possible without an authority and a body such as the ECB.
On the other hand, in its report, which I voted in favour of, the European Parliament sets particular store by the gradual withdrawal of the ECB emergency measures applied in 2008 as a result of the financial crisis (1% interest rate, quantitative easing and inflation below 2%).
This is especially important to Greece and the other states in the euro area as, in these cases, not only did the recession not end in 2009; on the contrary, it developed into a serious budgetary crisis.
Consequently, any change of stance by the ECB will need to take account of the new situation and be applied in close cooperation with the Member States currently hit by the debt crisis.
It ignores, or at least underestimates, the recessionary effect of a policy to reduce public spending being carried out simultaneously by most of the EU Member States, just as the EU was leaving behind the major recession that began in 2008.
The neoliberal ideology that is dominant in the European Central Bank (ECB), which means that there is an ever-lurking threat of inflation, even when there is considerable untapped productive capacity, is making the euro area a hostage to the financial markets.
The financial crisis in individual Member States of the European Union represents a significant threat to the stability of the euro.
Care should also be taken to develop preventative mechanisms in the event of a worsening of the present crisis or if it should move into a new phase.
I am convinced that the role of the European Central Bank and of the governments of individual EU Member States will be crucial in this process.
The European Central Bank (ECB) annual report is primarily an investigation into the way in which the ECB responded to the financial and economic crisis.
However, now these measures must be dismantled cautiously and gradually, because by definition, 'extraordinary measures' must not become the rule.
The banks and, in the meantime, the Member States which, because of the loss of confidence among the players on the financial markets, came to rely on the intervention of the ECB as an intermediary in order to access funding, must regain their independence.
The European Parliament report on the development of the civilian-military capabilities of the EU highlights the repulsive imperialist face of the EU and of the political representatives of capital.
Without mincing their words, the political representatives of the monopolies propose a series of measures to increase the efficacy of EU military missions, in order to strengthen its position in the battle between the imperialists, which is raging with unprecedented intensity both at global level and within the EU.
Under these circumstances, the development of policies and capabilities for crisis management and conflict prevention is actually an investment in the security of European Union citizens.
The European External Action Service should be a major player in devising a truly comprehensive European approach to civil and military crisis management at European level and to conflict prevention, providing the EU with sufficient structures, human and financial resources to fulfil its global responsibilities.
I voted in favour of this report because I support the need for closer cooperation between civilian and military capabilities in order to provide effective responses to present-day crises and security threats, including natural disasters.
The recent emergency in Haiti also highlighted the need for the European Union to offer improved coordination and faster deployment of military assets in the context of disaster relief, in particular, air transport capabilities.
Given the importance of these missions, I feel it necessary that funding should be considered more quickly and, for the sake of transparency, for one budget line to be created for each mission.
With regard to the development of civilian-military capabilities, the Member States should set objectives that match their resources in terms of personnel deployment.
I voted for this report because I argue that effective responses to present-day crises and security threats, including natural disasters, often need to be able to draw on both civilian and military capabilities and require closer cooperation between them.
Through its civilian crisis management, the EU already makes a clear contribution to global security, reflecting its core values and principles.
The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) should contribute further to the development of a truly comprehensive European approach to civilian and military crisis management, conflict prevention and peacebuilding, and provide the EU with adequate structures, staffing levels and financial resources to meet its global responsibilities.
in writing. - I welcome some aspects of this report dealing with civilian-military cooperation and the development of civilian-military capabilities.
The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) is further contributing to the development of a truly comprehensive European approach to civilian and military crisis management, conflict prevention and peacebuilding, and providing the EU with adequate structures, staffing levels and financial resources to meet its global responsibilities, in line with the UN Charter.
I have voted against the report on civilian-military cooperation and the development of civilian-military capabilities.
The changing nature of conflict calls for more extensive cooperation between civilian and military capabilities.
The highly successful EU-led Aceh Monitoring Mission (AMM) from 2005 to 2006 serves as an important example and reminder of how civilian-military synergies can anchor peace and build confidence in an unstable environment in a timely and effective way.
While the decommissioning team, dominated by military experts, monitored the rapid and successful disarmament process, the civilian team of AMM worked to turn the process into a platform for further political dialogue and for both parties to credibly commit themselves to permanent peace.
The application of civilian and military expertise should not be restricted by the technical labelling of the nature of operations, but should instead be decided on the basis of appropriateness and cost-efficiency.
I voted in favour of this report because I think it plays a critical role in facilitating the further development of a non-aggressive but nevertheless coherent and competent face of EU foreign policies.
Cooperation as envisaged in the report is a typical activity of peacekeeping operations, within the scope of which the military component cooperates with the civilian component (local authorities, national, international and non-governmental organisations and agencies) in order to restore acceptable living conditions and begin reconstruction.
Such activities help to ensure and maintain full cooperation between military forces, civilian populations and local institutions, with the aim of creating the conditions necessary to help achieve the objectives set.
It is therefore important for the European Union to support and promote this type of cooperation.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that, in order for the EU to meet its responsibilities to preserve peace, prevent conflicts, strengthen international security and assist populations facing disasters, it is vital to foster better coordination between civilian and military resources and to ensure that the necessary resources are available to strengthen their global crisis management abilities.
in writing. - While we would clearly support the principle of enhanced civilian-military cooperation in certain activities, this report has an entirely different thrust.
We do not support these objectives.
In particular: the idea of an EU Defence White Paper that would 'explicitly identify opportunities for the pooling of defence resources at EU level'; the demand for increases in staff to man duplicative EU military structures; the establishment of a permanent EU 'operational HQ, responsible for the operational planning and conduct of EU military operations'; and the idea of a vanguard group of nations to take forward defence integration using the Treaty of Lisbon's mechanism of 'Permanent Structured Cooperation'.
The aim is to improve the ability of the European Union to act in a crisis management role by allowing financial, civilian and military resources to be provided and used more efficiently.
For me as an Austrian, clear definitions are of great interest, in particular, with regard to the implementation of the solidarity clause as outlined in Article 222 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the mutual assistance clause as outlined in Article 42(7) of the Treaty on the European Union, which are also called for in the report.
The mutual assistance clause specifically states that it will not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain Member States, which guarantees that neutrality will be maintained.
However, the citizens of Austria have become very concerned following a series of different reports in the media and, therefore, we need definitive information about these new military components of the EU.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a long-term plan for the anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock, because it should contribute to maintaining biomass stocks at levels that will enable their sustainable exploitation, on the basis of scientific advice.
Given the importance of anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay, the damage caused by the closure of the fishery to groups dependent on it (fishers, net menders, the canning industry, etc.) and the fact that the loss of income has not been covered by the compensatory aid granted by the Member States, it is essential to establish a long-term plan for the recovery of the anchovy stock so that fishers can start making use of these resources, without threatening this vital species for the European fishing and canning industries.
With regard to the 10% reduction in fishing quotas and how exploitation is calculated, I believe that such measures are excessive, as they forget the economic and social impact that they could have on the industries and populations involved.
The objective of this proposal for a regulation is to establish a long-term plan for the anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay and the fisheries exploiting that stock.
The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay has been closed since 2005 due to the poor condition of the anchovy stock.
In order to raise the anchovy stock in the Bay of Biscay to a level which allows it to be exploited sustainably, it is necessary to put in place long-term management measures to ensure that the exploitation of this stock is compatible with sustainable exploitation, thus ensuring, as far as possible, the stability of the fishery while maintaining a low risk of stock collapse.
I welcome the approval of a long-term plan in this report rather than annual ad hoc measures for allocating fishing opportunities, so as to ensure the stability of the fisheries sector and strengthen monitoring and enforcement.
Long-term plans constitute an important instrument in fisheries management, enabling the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels to be combined with guaranteed medium-term prospects for exploiting these resources, which is indispensable for giving economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it.
in writing. - The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay has been closed since 2005 due to the poor state of that stock.
This report details the objectives of a plan to maintain the biomass of the stock of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation in accordance with maximum sustainable yield, on the basis of scientific advice, and while ensuring as much stability and profitability for the fishing sector as is practicable.
The suspension of anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay since 2005 has brought great difficulties for economic operators whose livelihoods depended on this economic activity.
The number of fishing vessels in this area has declined from 391 vessels in 2005 to 239 vessels in 2009, which has had a significant influence on the economy of the area.
The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay is of considerable social and economic importance.
This fishery has been closed since 2005, and the fleet has declined from 391 vessels in 2005 to 239 vessels in 2009, directly affecting more than 2 500 families.
The loss of income has not been covered by the compensatory aid granted by the Member States.
The exploitation rule defines the TAC (or total allowable catch) in the fishery for each year (from July to June of the following year), immediately after the assessment of the stock in line with the fishing seasons in May of each year, thus immediately making maximum use of this information.
The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay is of great socio-economic importance.
This closure should therefore be reviewed and a long-term plan established to find a solution that takes the various demands into account.
The anchovy fishery in the Bay of Biscay is of great socio-economic importance, and its closure in 2005 has caused great damage to groups that depend on it (fishermen, net menders, the canning industry, etc.).
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the measures presented by the Commission for the monitoring and surveillance of fishing zones are necessary.
This resolution is an attempt to tackle the lack of information about horse mackerel stocks by establishing a formula for vessels involved in the horse mackerel fishery, regarding an annual ceiling of maximum allowable landings and catches from defined areas.
The principal parts of the sector affected by this plan are the owners, operators and crew of pelagic fishing vessels operating in the distribution area of the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel, namely the North Sea, areas west of the British Isles, the western English Channel, waters west of Brittany, the Bay of Biscay and off north and northwest Spain, with the main objective of ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
It is also important to note that Portugal has managed to preserve its fishing interests and enjoy its historic right to fish in those areas.
Because of this, we must think both in terms of a long-term exploitation of live aquatic resources which will provide the conditions necessary for sustainability and development, and from a social viewpoint - for the owners, operators and crews of fishing vessels.
This proposal, which is of interest to Portugal, also takes into account the specific characteristics and purposes of the fleets involved, not least the artisanal fleet, with a view to supplying high quality fresh fish to the general public.
Defending fishing along with the economic and social interests involved - over and above food interests - is not the same as defending the right to fish without rules or limits.
We know that fishery resources are finite and that intensive fishing means there is no time for the exploited populations to reproduce in sufficient numbers.
It is therefore important to create plans to maintain and conserve fish stocks, seeking to reconcile the economic and social interests at stake with the preservation of the species, which is essential to the long-term maintenance of fishing opportunities.
With the amendments that have been tabled and adopted, this report defends traditional horse mackerel fishing and, in particular, enables 30 Portuguese vessels to continue fishing in the Bay of Biscay, which is crucial to the national interest, as is clearly pointed out by Mrs Patrão Neves, the shadow rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for this report.
This formula is based on the most reliable scientific and biological indicators available at present for the development of the stock.
I would like to highlight the important role that Parliament has played in repealing and amending the Commission's delegated acts on this matter.
Multiannual plans constitute important instruments in fisheries management, enabling the essential conservation of fisheries resources at sustainable levels to be combined with guaranteed medium-term prospects for exploiting these resources, which is indispensable for giving economic and social stability to fishing and the local communities that depend on it.
This report I have provides a long-term management plan for one of the most important fish stocks in Europe.
The long-term horse mackerel plan will ensure that stocks will be able to reach the maximum sustainable level in future.
I succeeded in modifying those amendments in the final vote.
in writing. - Atlantic horse mackerel has grown in importance in my own constituency and last year, some GBP 2 million worth of the fish was landed into Scottish ports by foreign boats alone.
in writing. - This proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
in writing. - The proposal establishes a long-term plan for the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel and the fisheries exploiting that stock.
The Commission laid down a legal management instrument for the stock of horse mackerel according to available conservation reference points and long-term sustainability considerations.
The proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
The establishment of a long-term plan for the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel and the fisheries exploiting that stock is crucial for the efficient and proper use of fisheries resources.
In this way, and provided that the rules are followed, the fish stocks will not collapse and it will be possible to exploit these resources sustainably.
In these circumstances, it is obvious that the plan should provide for the possibility of adapting the reference factors.
It is advisable, in fact, to create a more flexible rule than that suggested by the Commission.
I have therefore supported this report on the proposal establishing a multiannual management plan for the western stock of Atlantic horse mackerel, and I welcome the fact that the amendment put forward by Mrs Patrão Neves has been adopted, as it is essential for ensuring that the artisanal fishery is protected, along with Portugal's interests in this matter.
In economic terms, the western stock of horse mackerel is the most important in EU waters.
The European Commission proposal establishes a long-term plan for this stock as well as the fisheries exploiting it.
This proposal could even serve as a model for future multiannual plans dealing with the regulation of fishing opportunities within European Union waters.
I support the amendments tabled in Parliament's Committee on Fisheries to create greater flexibility when determining the biological reference factors and how the total removal amounts are calculated by setting upper and lower limits, as well as greater coordination with the legislation establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
I am therefore voting in favour of this report.
In order to limit effectively the discard of an excessive number of juvenile and under-sized specimens belonging to target or non-target species, it is important that the fishing industry should be encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas in which there are large numbers of under-sized fish and non-target species.
On account of this, I am voting for the introduction of the sustainable exploitation of live aquatic resources and a review of the protected areas in the Baltic Sea.
I voted for this report because it calls for restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea.
There is a pressing need for industrial fishing in the Baltic Sea to be stopped.
We must take into account the fact that the Baltic Sea is among the most precious marine ecosystems in the world, and that the Baltic Sea region has been classified as a 'particularly sensitive sea area' (PSSA).
Portugal needs fishing and, therefore, needs the sea to remain able to provide us with fish and species to remain able to reproduce.
For this very reason, I agree with the rapporteur when he says that 'in order to prevent by-catches effectively and limit the discard of an excessive number of juvenile and under-sized specimens belonging to target or non-target species, it is absolutely vital that the fishing industry should be encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas in which there are large numbers of under-sized fish and non-target species'.
In order to prevent highgrading and limit the discard of an excessive number of juvenile and under-sized specimens, it is absolutely vital that the fishing industry should be encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas in which there are large numbers of under-sized fish and non-target species.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which backs a proposal designed to simplify administration but does not make substantive changes to the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot in the Baltic Sea.
The concerns raised by the rapporteur are therefore legitimate and take into account the need for species protection and biodiversity conservation.
It is essential to impose quotas in order to allow fish resources in the Baltic Sea to recover.
A clear signal should be sent to all parties engaged in fishing that the irrational exploitation of fish resources could have dire consequences.
One of the major contributory factors to this decline is industrial fishing and the way in which by-catches are handled.
I have abstained, because the report clearly states that no reliable scientific data is available on this subject.
Experience gained via the use of a discard system in the Baltic Sea shows that the system works well and is practicable for certain species of fish.
The foundations are therefore being laid for the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, without any need for marketing standards to be lowered.
In order to prevent by-catches effectively and limit the discard of a number of juvenile and under-sized specimens, it is absolutely vital that the fishing industry should be encouraged to use the most selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas in which there are large numbers of under-sized fish and non-target species.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that it is vital to promote the sustainable management of marine resources, so as to be consistent with the objective of preserving fish stocks in the Baltic, which is one of the most valuable and sensitive ecosystems in the world.
in writing. - The detailed technical rules for fishing in the Baltic Sea (mesh size, closed areas, etc.) are included in Council Regulation 2187/2005.
However, prior to the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, the Council often took short-cut measures to adopt such rules quickly by including them in the regulation on quotas.
For instance, Council Regulation (EC) No 1226/2009 fixing quotas for 2010 has provisions related to technical measures, namely Article 7 on the prohibition of highgrading, and in Annex III on the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot.
Next year, the European Parliament will debate the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
I agree that this process must include measures to improve the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources and the effective management of marine resources.
This places the Baltic Sea among the most sensitive marine ecosystems in the world, but we also must not forget the human side of this issue which is not mentioned in the report.
Regions of Lithuania that are dependent on fishing have suffered significant economic and social difficulties in recent years due to declining fishing levels and stock conservation policy.
Consequently, Lithuania and other EU Member States must continue to implement most of the policies defined under the European Fisheries Fund.
This assistance will help to create new jobs, will increase the value of fishery products and will promote eco-tourism, etc.
in writing. - We abstained on the Bilbao Barandica, Gallagher and Ferreira reports on the grounds that they contained beneficial and harmful proposals in the same instrument.
On the whole, I agree with the proposed amendments, given that the introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and, along with the destruction of natural habitats, one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss, as is acknowledged by the Commission.
In this way, it will be possible to guarantee improved safety, quality and diversification of products offered to consumers and therefore ensure greater environmental protection.
With regard to the introduction of exotic species in closed aquaculture systems which, according to the Commission, primarily concerns 'aquaculture and restocking practices', I believe that this practice must be accompanied by strict monitoring of these facilities, of the systems and the activities for transport of these animals in order to prevent any escapes that could create disturbances in native ecosystems and natural habitats, representing one of the major factors in terms of making a significant contribution to biodiversity loss on a global scale.
The European aquaculture sector has more than 16 500 companies, a global annual turnover in excess of EUR 3.5 billion and employs approximately 64 000 people, both directly and indirectly.
Relaxing the introduction procedure for alien and locally absent species in aquaculture, as is being proposed, must be balanced by strictly defining the requirements with which closed aquaculture facilities will have to comply, as well as by the necessary supervision of the facilities, the aim being to ensure that the technical requirements proposed by specialists will all be properly taken into account and observed.
Regarding the report's fundamental issue, as we stated during the debate - the relaxation in the introduction procedure for alien species in aquaculture, in 'closed facilities' - must go hand in hand with the most precise possible definition of the requirements with which such facilities will have to comply, in keeping with up-to-date technical and scientific information.
The sustainable development of aquaculture demands substantial support for scientific research and technological development in the area of farming native species.
As regards the process of drawing up the report, I welcome the fact that the Commission has incorporated the proposals adopted by the Committee on Fisheries in its proposal for a regulation.
Accordingly, I supported this report.
The proportion of aquaculture facilities established inland, such as pond fish culture or flow-through systems, show higher growth rates than other food production sectors, and production in these facilities already exceeds that of maritime facilities.
in writing. - The Ferreira report deals with the amendment of Council Regulation No 708/2007, which established a framework governing aquaculture practices in relation to alien and locally absent species.
The transportation of target and non-target species should also be subject to strict rules and supervision.
For these reasons, I voted for this report.
I believe, however, that research and development for the purpose of farming native species should be strengthened so as to reduce the risks associated with introducing exotic species and promote more sustainable production.
The introduction of alien species is one of the main factors in the disturbance of ecosystems, along with the destruction of natural habitats, and one of the main reasons for global biodiversity loss.
Relaxing the introduction procedure for alien species in aquaculture must be balanced by a strict definition of the rules with which closed aquaculture facilities will have to comply, in accordance with the outcome of the IMPASSE project, as well as being subject to supervision, the aim being to ensure that the technical requirements proposed by specialists will all be properly taken into account and observed.
The sustainable development of European aquaculture demands substantial support for scientific research and technological development in the area of farming native species, so as to enable the production and supply of foodstuffs to be diversified and quality to be improved, while also guaranteeing greater environmental security.
Alongside the destruction of natural habitats, the introduction of alien species into our ecosystems is one reason for the global loss of biodiversity.
The introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and, along with the destruction of natural habitats, one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss.
The relaxation in the introduction procedure for alien species in aquaculture must go hand in hand with an exact definition of the requirements with which closed aquaculture facilities will have to comply and with the necessary supervision of the facilities, the aim being to ensure that the technical requirements proposed by specialists will all be properly taken into account and observed.
The sustainable development of European aquaculture demands substantial support for scientific research and technological development for the purpose of farming native species, so as to enable production and the supply of foodstuffs to be diversified and their quality improved, while also making for greater environmental security.
I voted in favour of this report in view of the fact that the results of the IMPASSE project have revealed that 'the degree of risk associated with alien species could be reduced considerably, possibly to an acceptable level, if the potential for escape of target and non-target organisms is addressed during transportation and by well-defined protocols at the receiving facility'.
in writing. - The Commission's proposal deals with amendments to a regulation on the use of alien species in aquaculture based on the IMPASSE project, which focused on the environmental impact of alien species.
As the rapporteur notes, the introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and, along with the destruction of natural habitats, one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss.
The use of alien and locally absent species in aquaculture damages natural ecosystems that deserve protection from the EU, causing global biodiversity loss in particular.
The IMPASSE project is concerted action on the environmental impact of alien species in aquaculture, which has demonstrated the need to prevent the escape of these species and of biological material during transportation.
Clearly and rigorously defining 'closed aquaculture facility', as well as the regularly updated listing of all such facilities by Member States, will lead to the sustainable development of this sector.
I also support the commitment to scientific research and technological development as a means of reducing this sector's harmful effects on natural ecosystems.
in writing. - UKIP opposes any EU management of our industries, as it should be up to national elected governments to decide on the future and any potential subsidy of coal mines.
UKIP has abstained on these two amendments and the final vote because although we do not support any EU State aid laws (as it should be up to national governments to decide subsidy levels), giving greater flexibility to Member States and lengthening this period is beneficial and much more democratically accountable, putting power back into the hands of governments to make these decisions.
Although it still only represents a small part of the EU energy market, the coal mining industry ensures jobs for those EU citizens working in it and economic development in the sparsely populated and remote regions where most coal mining companies are located.
When uncompetitive mines are closed, it is important to guarantee that the necessary long-term funding is allocated to ensure environmental protection and rehabilitate former mining sites.
in writing. - UKIP opposes any EU management of our industries, as it should be up to national elected governments to decide on the future and any potential subsidy of coal mines.
UKIP has abstained on these two amendments and the final vote because, although we do not support any EU State aid laws because it should be up to national governments to decide on subsidy levels, giving greater flexibility to Member States and lengthening this period is beneficial and much more democratically accountable, putting power back in to the hands of governments to make these decisions.
Having been consulted by the Commission, the European Parliament was called on to give its verdict, this Tuesday 23 November, on the issue of State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines.
The Commission proposed 1 October 2014.
The majority of the European Parliament has therefore decided to extend the provision of State aid until 31 December 2018.
I decided to abstain from this final vote because I believe that the most important thing is to give priority to sustainable energy sources but, at the same time, it is also important to bear in mind the economic and social consequences of mine closures.
This report proposes putting back the deadline for closing uncompetitive coal mines by four years: from 2014, as originally provided for in the European Commission's proposal, until 2018.
The mining sector provides 100 000 jobs in the European Union.
When taking into account the competitive and comparative advantages and disadvantages between regions, especially at international level, we must not forget that the mining industry is present in areas in which the development of sound economic and occupational alternatives should be encouraged as a preliminary step and in which welfare support provisions should be enhanced to prevent painful increases in unemployed workers whom it is difficult to redeploy.
I voted for this report as I believe that uncompetitive coal mines must be able to benefit from the State aid contribution, given that without this, the mines would close, resulting therefore in a huge wave of redundancies and very serious social problems.
The transition period granted for making these mines profitable or closing them is important.
Its role is, on the one hand, to ensure the provision of professional retraining for the population involved in the coal industry and, on the other, to ensure a gradual transition to cleaner energy sources.
With regard to the exact year in which the closure aid is to end, we have no strong preferences, but we nevertheless believe that the Commission's proposal of 2014 is more appropriate than the rapporteur's proposal of 2018.
In the absence of a specific regulation on granting State aid to the coal industry, as the applicable regulation expires on 31 December 2010, rules need to be set out enabling some Member States that have been forced to close their coal mines to minimise the social and economic impact of that closure.
As coal mines are concentrated in certain regions (in Germany, Spain and Romania), the social impact of simultaneous mine closures could be significant.
In employment terms, the jobs of around 100 000 miners could be at stake; they may be unable to find jobs in other sectors as quickly as is necessary and they run the risk of becoming long-term unemployed.
For this very reason, this proposal aims to provide the Member States with a legal framework enabling them to more effectively resolve the potential negative effects of mine closures that could occur as a result of the gradual withdrawal of subsidies, in particular, the social and environmental effects.
Aid to the European coal industry is regulated by Council Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002 of 23 July 2002, which expires on 31 December 2010.
In the absence of a new legal framework allowing for specific types of State aid to the coal industry, Member States will be able to grant aid only within the limits provided for in the general State aid rules applicable to all sectors.
I understand that due to the regional concentration of coal mines, the social impact of simultaneous closure could be significant.
I agree, therefore, that the closure plan should be extended to 31 December 2018, along with the final closure of production units, if they do not become competitive by this date, and provided that the EU's energy needs do not require them to exist.
This report assesses and makes positive changes to the European Commission's proposal for amending this regulation, which itself changed the period for awarding State aid to the coal industry.
Without this amendment, the period would have expired on 31 December 2010.
Now, the European Commission's new proposal is suggesting extending aid until 2014.
However, the European Parliament has adopted a proposal, for which we voted, extending aid until 2018.
The period from now until 2018 will be used to put in place the necessary restructuring measures.
This will enable the difficult but necessary adaptation processes to be implemented in Europe and in Germany, in particular, in a balanced way and on a sound political footing.
In my opinion, the vote in Parliament is based on a nationalist reflex and short-term thinking.
I oppose the subsidies because I believe that the use of coal and the accompanying CO2 emissions in principle run counter to all our efforts to combat climate change.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as I agree with the fundamental point that there should be 'transition' regulation in this sector.
However, I do not believe that this justifies indefinite support for coal mines that prove uncompetitive.
However, in order to minimise the distortion of competition in the internal market resulting from aid, the Commission will have to ensure that precise and effective conditions of competition are established, maintained and observed.
As for environmental protection, the Member States will have to provide a programme of measures aimed at mitigating the environmental impact of the use of coal, in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage.
The pro-Europeans want to facilitate the closure of the last remaining coal mines in Europe by means of short-term State aid.
Therefore, I can unfortunately only conclude that, in this area as in so many others, the Europe of Brussels has not sought to protect our industries and hence our jobs, preferring instead to waste huge amounts of money on globalist projects that bear no relation to the problems of our fellow citizens.
I have voted in favour of Mr Rapkay's report because the plan to phase out coal mining subsidies by 2018 is, fortunately, supported by a broad majority across all the groups.
To avoid any misunderstandings, it is important to realise that these are not permanent subsidies and that the aim is not to prop up uncompetitive businesses.
With the expiry of the Coal Regulation on 31 December 2010, some countries would be obliged to close their hard coal mines.
I voted to extend this regulation until 31 December 2030, as opposed to 31 December 2026 proposed by the European Commission.
The deadline which resulted from the majority vote was 31 December 2018.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines.
Coal has been exempted from State aid rules for a total of 35 years.
The Commission has proposed an end to this exemption, which would allow State aid only to coal mines that are slated for closure by 2014.
Any coal mine that does not close by that date must pay back State aid and all countries giving State aid must provide a climate change mitigation plan.
I voted in favour of this report because, although it concerns important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change and economic issues such as the durability of uncompetitive production units in the economy, at a time of economic and social crisis, it is important to stand up for the social issues.
The response to the crisis is through investment and protecting the public, which in this case means ensuring conditions that allow for the closure of these mines over a period of time after the expected resolution of the crisis, thereby protecting jobs and combating unemployment.
Early termination of subsidies to the coal industry by the Member States could cause huge environmental and financial problems in the affected regions, and could become even more costly than a gradual phasing out of these subsidies.
It is essential that we continue to support the coal industry in Europe to allow uncompetitive mines to be closed down gradually.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of this report, which is very clearly worded.
I voted for this report because the measures it contains will help, if they are approved by the Council, to avoid serious social repercussions in many of the European Union's Member States.
The deadline proposed by the European Commission is too close and unrealistic.
I am delighted with the position adopted today by the European Parliament on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive mines.
Today, we have proposed a mechanism to force Member States to implement consistent limits on public aid, as well as a gradual transition to the general provisions that apply to all sectors of the economy.
The 2014 deadline proposed by the Commission is not justified, even by the Commission impact assessment.
On the basis of the Commission impact assessment, and as a logical follow-on to Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002, the 2018 deadline is an appropriate one, ensuring a socially acceptable solution without entailing mass redundancies in a number of Member States.
I voted in favour, as I approve of the measures required to prevent the extremely serious socio-economic impact of pit closures, particularly in thinly populated regions.
Based on the opinion of the European Parliament on the proposal for a regulation, the deadline for subsidising coal production is being extended to 31 December 2018 (four years longer than in the Commission's proposal) and is intended only for hard coal.
The deadline of 2014 (proposed by the Commission) for the mine closure plan is arbitrary and is not justified based on the impact assessment carried out by the EU executive itself.
Consequently, 2018 guarantees an acceptable solution, taking into account this impact assessment.
The rapporteur favours a gradual reduction in aid.
I voted in favour of this report because, although it concerns important environmental issues such as energy sources and climate change and economic issues such as the durability of uncompetitive production units in the economy, at a time of economic and social crisis, it is important to stand up for the social issues.
The response to the crisis is through investment and protecting the public, which in this case means ensuring conditions that allow the closure of these mines over a period of time after the expected resolution of the crisis, thereby protecting jobs and combating unemployment.
Council Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002 of 23 July 2002 on State aid for the coal industry expires on 31 December 2010.
This would force some Member States to close their coal mines on that date and face the considerable social and regional impact of these simultaneous closures.
The Commission's proposal suggested providing the Member States with a legal framework to allow them to extend the support given until 31 December 2014, Parliament having extended this deadline until 31 December 2018, thus ensuring the conditions for resolving this problem in a sustainable manner at a social and environmental level.
Ending aid for the closure of uncompetitive coal mines in 2014 - the date proposed by the Commission - would have serious socio-economic consequences in certain regions of the EU where mining continues to be a significant source of employment.
The European Commission has proposed a scheduled end of subsidies in October 2014.
This is a sensible proposal that takes into account the negative environmental impact of aid for the coal industry and of the need for the Member States to provide a plan of appropriate measures, for example, in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage.
The facts are damning: EUR 1 288 million of aid to production, making a total of EUR 2.9 billion of subsidies for the coal industry between 2003 and 2008, has done nothing to limit the loss of market share, nor has it ensured that the industry's 100 000 workers receive useful support to help them retrain.
I therefore regret that the European Union has not had the courage this lunchtime to say 'no' to extending aid for coal mines until the end of 2018 or to turn resolutely towards new energy sources, which would provide jobs for the European population.
in writing. - Today's vote is in conflict with the EU's economic, energy and climate change interests.
Although the coal mining industry does not have a great bearing on the Lithuanian economy, this report is important for my country.
With the expiry of Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002, some Member States will be forced to close their coal mines immediately and face huge social and regional consequences related to the closures.
Lithuania knows only too well the kind of problems that have to be faced following such closures.
Finally, it is important for us to bear in mind the safety of coal miners and workers in other branches of the energy industry.
The recent accidents in Chile and New Zealand will not allow us to forget this.
On their behalf, too, I have voted in favour of the report, which creates an opportunity to save thousands of jobs in a traditional Slovak mining region.
This cooperation between Parliament and the JPA began in 2007, and last year resulted in the creation of a fully-fledged delegation for relations with the JPA.
I voted for this resolution which assesses the work of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly of the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of states (ACP) and the EU in 2009.
I believe that the revision of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement will help address the new changes that have come about in the decade since this agreement was first signed and will increase participation on the part of national parliaments, civil society and the private sector in those countries' political and economic life.
I also agree with the proposal that the European Development Fund should be incorporated into the EU budget in order to increase the consistency, transparency and effectiveness of development cooperation policy and guarantee appropriate scrutiny.
in writing. - I support this report on the work of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP)-EU Parliamentary Assembly.
The establishment, at the beginning of the current term, of a permanent European Parliament delegation for relations with the Pan-African Parliament is a very positive step which will contribute to consolidate the increasingly political engagement of the ACP-EU Parliamentary Assembly.
I welcome the adoption of this report because the Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA) has succeeded, through the quality of its work, in establishing itself as a key player in North-South cooperation.
I voted for the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009, because I believe that this assembly continues to provide an important framework for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states.
In order for the cooperation process to be more efficient and democratic, there is a need for greater involvement by the parliaments of the ACP countries in drawing up and drafting strategic cooperation plans, and for them to participate more actively in negotiating economic partnership agreements alongside the European authorities.
Without calling into question the importance of the work done by the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA) in 2009 or its undeniable contribution to development cooperation, I cannot fail to express my concern about the content of point 6 of the Joly report: 'encourages the JPA to continue to work on this area and to explore additional and innovative sources of financing for development, such as an international financial transaction tax'.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA) convened twice in 2009, the year in which the Commission and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states made proposals for the second revision of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement to be negotiated during 2010.
I would like to highlight the JPA's concern at the repercussions of the current financial crisis, the adoption in Luanda of a resolution on the impact of the financial crisis on the ACP states, and the resolutions on its impact and on addressing the crisis in the ACP states.
Therefore, any attempt to reduce this representativeness on the grounds of cost cutting must be rejected, while defending the assembly's plural nature, without which some of its principles would be seriously distorted and some of its basic objectives seriously compromised.
Official languages of EU and ACP countries are frequently dropped, as has been the case with Portuguese on more than one occasion.
This is a serious error, the correction of which is important.
As a member of the ACP-EU (African, Caribbean and Pacific-European Union) Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I voted resolutely in favour of this report on the work carried out by the assembly in 2009.
The ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly is a unique institution that has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in European-African relations and in North-South relations.
In particular, I did, of course, vote for the paragraph calling for efforts to establish an international financial transaction tax and to eradicate tax havens.
I endorsed the Joly report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009.
There is no doubt that these meetings are necessary.
in writing. - The group which I am part of in the European Parliament has amended the original report quite substantially.
Greater involvement of the ACP national parliaments and civil society - through financial and technical support - is needed in order to enhance the ACP-EU cooperation.
I voted to approve the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009, because I consider its contribution to North-South cooperation to be fundamental.
In fact, the JPA has played, and continues to play, a key role in involving local authorities and bodies in the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements.
For these reasons, I join in the calls made by my fellow Members for the Commission to make every effort to provide timely information on the negotiations, in order to ensure that Parliament can participate fully in monitoring the agreements and to assist it in doing so.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009.
The strengthening of parliamentary oversight is vital to ensure that EU development funds are put to best use and contribute effectively to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The assembly has played, and continues to play, a key role in monitoring the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs), allowing MEPs to hear first hand the concerns of the ACP parliamentarians and thus contributing to greater European Parliament oversight of the Commission's negotiations and implementation of EPAs.
I voted in favour of Mrs Joly's excellent report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which is - I repeat - a unique institution in the world by virtue of its composition and its willingness to work together to promote North-South interdependence, not only by legislative means, but also through democratic dialogue and cooperation.
I should like to take advantage of this report to make the case for a tax on international financial transactions in order to help certain donors to honour their commitments in terms of official development aid and to help developing countries to make the changes necessary to cope with climate change.
I would emphasise that the Monterrey Consensus in 2002, the follow-up to the Doha conference in 2008 and the High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals held in New York in September 2010 issued a favourable opinion on innovative and alternative sources of financing for development and stressed the need for a balanced approach between the economic, social and environmental aspects of development.
I have voted against the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009, because it is very vague and its wording is imprecise.
The ability to feed themselves plays a major role in this context.
In view of these aspects, and fully supporting the development of dialogue between the EU and the countries of the South, I decided to vote in favour of the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2009.
I voted in favour of the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, because I believe that the assembly has played a key role and has endeavoured to find solutions to what are, at times, complicated problems.
I voted for the report on the work of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA) in 2009.
It is important to highlight the role of the JPA, as it has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in North-South cooperation, contributing to strengthening open and democratic dialogue between the EU and the ACP group of states.
On these occasions, 10 resolutions and the Luanda Declaration on the second revision of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement were approved.
During the year, two regional meetings were also held, in Guyana (Caribbean region) and in Burkina Faso (West African region) respectively.
In December 2009, the ACP Council adopted the necessary revisions to guarantee that the budget funding for 2010 was sufficient to cover two plenary sessions, one regional meeting and two additional missions at most.
As a member of the Delegation to the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I endorsed the report on the work of the JPA in 2009.
I have a good opinion of the work of the assembly this year, including, in particular, the resolutions adopted on the effect of the global crisis on social conditions and concerning climate change.
As a member of the JPA Committee on Social Affairs and the Environment, I think it is essential that a comprehensive analysis be made and a wide-ranging debate entered into next year on the environmental and social situation in the ACP states.
A review of existing measures will allow us to plan objectives for the coming years more effectively.
In keeping with the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee, I am also in favour of greater support and recognition for the African social economy.
I think the JPA could also examine more thoroughly the role of the African social economy in eliminating poverty.
With this text, the European Parliament is drawing attention to the fact that the success of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly is linked to an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the European Union and the ACP countries.
I particularly welcome the vote on an amendment calling for a financial transaction tax as a possible response to the crisis, even though I am under no illusions about the European Parliament's contradictory votes on this issue.
Let us hope that this report will not go completely unheeded and that all the European institutions will be able to refer to it in order to forge other relationships with the ACP countries.
I am approving this report, highlighting Article 67, regarding the various legal systems and practices, and access to justice, issues on which mutual recognition should contribute to better knowledge of the various legal systems and practices.
Therefore, dedication to the various legal approaches and constitutional traditions of the various Member States must be maintained while, at the same time, an EU-level approach must be thought up in order to resolve general problems.
The Stockholm Programme establishes ambitious European policies on justice and security in order to build a citizens' Europe.
In Europe, 20% of divorces concern international couples.
It would be appropriate to refer for this purpose to the concepts defined in Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters and the European code of conduct for mediators.
It will also be important for all citizens to gain access to up-to-date, high quality information now available in a Commission database on essential aspects of national and EU law and procedures concerned not only with separation and divorce but also mediation.
The Stockholm Programme seeks to create a European area of freedom, security and justice that will guarantee citizens' fundamental rights, including freedom of enterprise, so as to develop entrepreneurship in all economic sectors.
Since the Union first obtained competence for justice and home affairs, and the subsequent creation of the area of freedom, security and justice, huge progress has been made in the area of civil justice and harmonisation of the rules of private international law has advanced apace.
I feel that the action plan presented by the European Commission is ambitious but, at the same time, it is necessary to properly assess the effectiveness and compliance with set objectives of measures already imposed, in order to satisfy the needs of citizens, business and practitioners.
I support the proposal of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection to include the text on the European single market in the resolution on civil, commercial, family and international private law.
The time then is ripe for reflection on the future development of the AFSJ, and the European Parliament therefore calls on the Commission to initiate a wide-ranging debate involving all interested parties, including, in particular, judges and practitioners.
It is mainly concerned with measures designed to increase the enforceability of law in cross-border disputes and, in the spirit of the Stockholm Programme, those targeting a greater degree of cooperation between Member States' judicial authorities.
The action plan also proposes a legislative initiative to draw up a provision to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of judgments relating to the transparency of debtors' activities, and similar provisions on the freezing of bank accounts.
The report also calls on the Commission, which has set up a working group for arbitration, to consult on any legislative proposals before submitting them, as arbitration issues have a significant impact on international trade.
I abstained from the final vote on the Berlinguer resolution because Amendment 2 was thrown out.
This was extremely important for ruling out possible erroneous interpretations of item 40, which states that Parliament 'strongly supports plans to enable the mutual recognition of the effects of civil status documents'.
The expression could suggest, for example, a European Union-wide obligation to recognise a union between people of the same sex registered in a Member State where such a union is permitted.
However, the effects of the official registration document are something different and their recognition (for example, a survivor's pension) is not permitted in a State that does not recognise them.
The possibility of a different interpretation led me to choose to abstain.
I welcome the huge progress that has been made in the area of civil justice since the Union first obtained competence for justice and home affairs and the area of freedom, security and justice was created.
Moreover, I would congratulate the Commission on its very ambitious plan, which responds to a substantial number of the demands that Parliament has been making.
It is essential to adopt a more strategic and less fragmented approach based on the real needs of citizens and businesses when exercising their rights and freedoms in the single market.
The Stockholm Action Plan must reflect these needs in respect of mobility, employment rights, the needs of business and equal opportunities, amongst other things, while promoting legal certainty and access to rapid and efficient justice.
While everyone's legal traditions and specific characteristics should be respected, today's challenges require, in fact, a common effort to harmonise European laws.
Explanation of vote: on 23 November 2010, the Swedish Conservatives voted in favour of the report on civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme.
However, we would like to emphasise that we believe a great deal of care should be taken with regard to the harmonisation of the different forms of training for the legal professions in the Member States and stress that such harmonisation does not fall within the framework of the Stockholm Programme.
The Stockholm Programme is an essential next step in the development of the European area of freedom, security and justice towards a greater focus on individuals.
A greater focus that contributes not only to a more comprehensive perspective on citizenship, including respect for human beings and human dignity, but also to a perspective on the law and on justice that makes it accessible throughout the Union, so that individuals can exert their rights without any internal borders.
When developing European areas of freedom, security and justice, however, respect must always be shown for the principle of subsidiarity, which encourages respect for individuals and for the traditions that form an integral part of their history.
I voted for this report as I think that it is of paramount importance to implement properly the measures envisaged by the Stockholm Programme with regard to improving the area of freedom security and justice.
This can be achieved by improving judicial cooperation between Member States, promoting a European judicial culture and by resolving the various incompatibility issues between the different procedural law models which exist at Member State level.
The Commission's Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme must take into account all these aspects mentioned in the report.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for this report because it advocates specific measures promoting legal certainty and access to rapid and efficient justice.
Under the Stockholm Action Plan, it is necessary to ensure that the exchange of best practices between legal systems pays particular attention to the needs of individual citizens and businesses, facilitating mobility within the EU, employment rights and equal opportunities.
The areas of civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law constitute some of the most sensitive areas of the law applicable in each of the EU Member States.
European legislators must always have respect for the various legal systems, for the consensus created around them in each of the respective political communities, and for their legitimate options; they cannot and must not ignore the fact that they are dealing with peoples and nations with stable, established and deep-rooted legal systems.
While I carefully monitor the adoption of measures in this regard, I am aware that there are legal relationships that, because of their nature, are more likely to call on the laws of more than one country.
I acknowledge that much of what is advocated is positive and aims at the exchange of best practices and the realisation of a true area of freedom, security and justice.
The Stockholm Programme, adopted by the Council in December 2009, establishes priorities for the development of a European area of freedom, security and justice over the next five years.
The Commission's Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme involves making use of the tools available following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to ease daily life and business for EU citizens, reconciling the needs of the public and the internal market with the diversity of legal traditions among the Member States.
As a result of this, our opinions about the rapporteur's suggestions are also diverse.
There are several problems in the commercial areas, however, and it would probably be more important to ensure trademark protection by recourse to civil jurisdiction rather than criminal.
In this area in Portugal too, the delays are very long and it is acknowledged that many magistrates find it difficult to reach a decision on very specific subjects.
Explanation of vote: on 23 November 2010, the Swedish Conservatives voted in favour of the report on civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme.
However, we would like to emphasise that we believe a great deal of care should be taken with regard to the harmonisation of the different forms of training for the legal professions in the Member States and stress that such harmonisation does not fall within the framework of the Stockholm Programme.
We voted against this report.
The real aim is to impose same-sex marriage and adoption by homosexual couples on those Member States that do not recognise them in their own law.
I am pleased at the adoption of this report, which welcomes the Stockholm Action Plan and, more specifically, the elements it contains in relation to civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law.
This 'common judicial area' involves the principle of mutual recognition of judgments by Member States, and this issue of mutual recognition is crucial in areas such as family law, contracts, succession and wills, matrimonial property, and so on.
I have voted in favour of the amendments and against the Berlinguer report, because I am not sure that it provides adequate support for subsidiarity.
A sentence corresponding with Amendment 3 would have been sufficient to defuse this conflict.
They are exclusively a matter for the Member States.
Therefore, I have voted against this own-initiative report.
in writing. - This resolution calls on the Commission and the Council to ensure that Parliament is fully consulted on the organisation and arrangement of judicial training.
This initiative will aid the concept of a European judicial culture so that the entire citizenry of the EU will be treated fairly and with dignity.
I voted in favour of the report on the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme because I consider the progress made in relation to the area of freedom, security and justice to be crucial.
Since its creation, in fact, huge progress has been made in the area of justice, including civil justice.
The Stockholm Programme (2010-2015), when viewed from the perspective of cooperation within the area of freedom, security and justice (AFSJ), in reality lays the future foundations of European supremacy in many areas with the aim of removing any remaining obstacles to 'free movement' between the EU Member States.
in writing. - I welcome the adoption of this report on the Stockholm Programme, which stresses the need to ensure mutual recognition of official documents issued by national administrations.
The implementation of the Stockholm Programme has, and will continue to have, its difficulties.
The initiative of the Stockholm Programme aimed at securing recognition of official documents by Member States can be welcomed.
However, this mechanism must not come into direct conflict with the basic regulations of Member States, particularly in the area of family law.
In view of the fact that family law reflects a tradition going back many years and a hard-won social consensus, it is not acceptable for Member State sovereignty in this area to be breached, albeit by well-intentioned unification schemes.
The areas of civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law constitute some of the most sensitive areas of the law applicable in the different EU Member States.
The document adopted sheds light on the most important parts of the Commission's plans.
It is in the interest of Member States to further perfect the judicial area.
We must make efforts to ensure that the resources required for training are available everywhere.
Trust in Member States' systems can be improved by learning about them.
Representatives of the legal professions must be given an opportunity to continuously express their opinion regarding an area based on freedom, security and justice.
As representatives of the interests of citizens, we must strive to ensure that the EU does not conjure an image of a legislative maze in people's minds.
Paragraph 40 of the report on civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme represents a serious intrusion into national law, by calling for same-sex marriages and partnerships which are entered into in a specific Member State to be recognised in all other Member States.
Entering into a partnership in a country where rights and claims equivalent to those of marriage have the force of law will allow the partners to make claims in their country of origin which only apply to marriage there.
The ultimate consequence of this resolution would be to make the existence of different regulations in different countries totally absurd.
The report deals with a topic of utmost importance, which is the way the EU meets the needs of its citizens and commercial companies in the area of the law, with particular reference to cross-border civil and commercial disputes.
However, I regret that I did not find in the report's content any reference to the actions required to inform citizens or company administrators about the opportunities offered to them by European legislation with regard to pursuing their interests in judicial proceedings.
It is important to focus on magistrates and lawyers, but it does not ensure that citizens have total access to this information.
I voted in favour of adopting the report on civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the Action Plan implementing the Stockholm Programme.
Ever since the EU gained powers in the field of justice and internal affairs, and since the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice, for which the EU and the Member States are currently jointly competent, significant progress has been made in the field of civil law.
The European Commission communication entitled 'An area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen' proposed an ambitious plan for development of the aforesaid area in the period 2010-2014.
There can be no doubt that further progress in this area will necessitate a more strategic approach, targeted primarily at the needs of citizens and businesses with regard to exercising rights and freedoms in the single market.
Progressive harmonisation, approximation and standardisation are required, for example, in the field of consumer protection.
It goes without saying that the radically different legal systems and traditions must be respected and reconciled when ensuring the functionality of measures that have already been introduced.
In order to meet the challenges, the Commission should conduct an open debate with various representatives of the judicial system, including, in particular, legal professionals.
I voted in favour of the Berlinguer report insofar as it concerns aspects of fundamental importance for enabling a shift towards a Europe of the citizens and for promoting the development of a European judicial culture.
In particular, the report addresses in a balanced and exhaustive way issues concerning the training of judges; cooperation between judicial authorities; European contract law; fundamental rights, including freedom of enterprise, so as to develop entrepreneurship in all economic sectors; and the mutual recognition of official documents issued by national administrations, including the effects of civil status documents.
The Stockholm Programme aims to safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens in an area of freedom, security and justice.
However, the differences in the various legal systems of the Member States are creating barriers to the development of European legislation.
That is why I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution, which proposes the convergence and harmonisation of civil, commercial, family and private international law and focuses on cooperation between the various legal systems of the Member States by: • nurturing a common European judicial culture; • educating and training judges, prosecutors and other court officers, with the aim of building mutual understanding of the legal systems of the other Member States and resolving cross-border disputes; • creating a regular forum so that judges in areas of law where cross-border issues arise can examine areas of legal controversy or difficulty with the aim of building a climate of mutual confidence; • introducing a European contract law; • introducing cooperation between the courts of the Member States in the taking of evidence in civil and commercial matters.
The Stockholm Programme adopted in December 2009 establishes the priorities for the development of a European area of freedom, security and justice over the next five years.
In this context, it is important to point out the significant results that have already been achieved, and to hope that the recommended measures can help to respond to the real needs of the public and businesses, facilitating their mobility and the exercise of their rights and freedoms in the single market, without jeopardising the requirements of the principle of subsidiarity and respect for diversity of the legal approaches and constitutional traditions of the different Member States.
The dossier calls on the Commission to improve the proposal submitted in an attempt to overcome certain problems and critical areas that occur specifically in international judicial practice.
Assisting national judges on technical aspects of the proposed measures during legislative drafting and the establishment of an independent European claims instrument, which would, amongst other things, make it possible to resolve, at least partly, problems raised by differences of opinion in national procedural law, are specific examples of the constructive and approving approach that a common and extensively discussed proposal for a resolution could have on European legislation.
In an area as important to citizens as civil law, it is necessary to respect and accommodate radically different legal approaches and constitutional traditions but it is also necessary to face up to the negative legal consequences for citizens arising out of this difference.
in writing. - This is a good regulation calling mainly for the use of every possible means to nurture a European judicial culture, particularly through legal education and training.
In particular, Italy has always supported the need to develop mutual trust between Member States of the Union and is in favour of continuing to extend EU regulations in the sector of justice and internal affairs.
I would also emphasise the need to use all possible means to foster a European judicial culture, particularly through legal teaching and training.
The actions identified in the plan are very important for improving the guarantees of European citizens in respect of the law, but it is necessary to adopt a more strategic and less fragmentary approach based on the real needs of citizens and enterprises in the exercising of their rights.
Thanks to the Stockholm Programme, the citizens of Member States will be able to assert their rights throughout the European Union in the fields of civil, commercial and labour law.
The programme offers advantages and greater transparency to citizens.
However, in order to build systems which are more uniform, it is essential that there be greater coordination of what we do and that experience be exchanged between the countries of the Union.
A very important matter, particularly during the current economic problems, will be development of effective mechanisms of action in the area of strengthening the single market and economic integration, by which I mean more liberal principles of commercial exchange between the countries of the European Union and the establishment of legislation on commercial exchange between third countries.
From the point of view of the participants of economic processes, it is necessary, above all, to specify businesses' and consumers' rights of protection and to continue to monitor effectively the implementation and enforcement of legal regulations in the area of the single market.
Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union establishes the importance of respecting the different legal systems and traditions within the EU and Mr Berlinguer's report highlights this as one of the strengths of the EU.
The areas of justice and home affairs have traditionally been the responsibility of the Member States.
However, these involve challenges for national civil legislation which we will have to overcome.
This question can be resolved not only within the framework of civil law procedures and private international law, but also through the complex procedure of family law under Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
The Commission and the Council must therefore explain that neither the socio-legal mechanisms nor the Stockholm Protocol will ever lead to the creation of a statute of marriage for same-sex couples.
If we want to build a strong Union, it must not be at the cost of restricting Member State powers or the common good.
