Railway safety, including the European signalling system (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on railway safety, including the European signalling system.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the train accident in Buizingen on Monday, 15 February 2010 was a shocking tragedy.
First of all, my thoughts are with the victims of this tragedy and their relatives.
I would first like to be very clear on the opening-up of the market.
The Thalys, for example, has to be equipped with seven different national systems to run in four countries.
For this reason, a single system for use at European level has been designed and developed and is currently being installed on major international lines and trains in Europe.
As regards the timing, we can say that most of the national systems were developed in the early 1980s but their deployment is a long and costly process.
In most countries, only part of the national networks and locomotives are equipped today and this partial equipment took approximately 20 years.
The ERTMS specifications have been available since 2000.
At present, 10 Member States have lines with ERTMS and there are ongoing projects in almost all Member States.
In Belgium, for example, the line between Aachen and Liège is equipped, and ICT trains running on this line are equipped as well.
Since the middle of the 1990s, the technology has been available to enable the safe transition between the European system and the advanced Belgian system, in other words, the so-called TBL 1+ system.
We also need to investigate how we can put in place a mandatory requirement to do this.
The delay in the development of the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) has been cited in particular as a reason why now, in 2010, only a handful of locomotives in Belgium are equipped with the automatic stop system.
Secondly, however, and I think that this is an important task for the Commission and the European Railway Agency, we must also monitor whether existing European safety legislation is being implemented in practice in the field.
The best-performing countries in 2008 were the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, two countries that have opened up their markets.
The lesson we must learn from this is that more needs to be invested in safety and that the various existing systems need to be better geared to one another.
Then, if effective interoperability proves impossible to achieve, maximum encouragement must be given to the changeover to the European ETCS, as it is not healthy for a Thalys train running between Paris and Amsterdam, for example, to have no less than seven different safety systems. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the collision between two commuter trains in Brussels, which resulted in this dreadful accident, has deeply shocked all of us.
The investigations into this rail accident have not yet been completed and, therefore, we cannot yet expect any clear results.
However, in 2007, roughly 2 600 people were victims of rail accidents, while last year, more rail accidents occurred involving passenger and freight trains.
modernise the rail infrastructure and existing rolling stock to guarantee efficient and safe rail transport, 2.
develop new rail transport infrastructures and implement the ERTMS. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent rail disasters that have rocked Europe - in Belgium today, in Italy yesterday - oblige us to consider the flaws in the system and the measures suitable for improving the services in safety terms.
Furthermore, I would stress that, looking ahead to the prospect of a free common rail market, the European Railway Agency's inspection powers must be strengthened at central level. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the recent rail accident in Brussels, which many Members have mentioned, the spotlight has once again been on the safety of the railways.
There are so many railway systems, and they are not only different in each Member State, but in many cases, different systems are in use in a single Member State, and the systems we are talking about are often a protectionist administrative barrier put up only to protect the monopoly firm in the national market.
For example, as you know, we have obliged railway companies - including private firms - to fully equip their trains with the new European Train Control System (ETCS) as of 2013, yet we already know that Europe's railway lines will not have been equipped with that system by then.
The Belgian rail network alone, with its 3 400 kilometres, is larger than that.
In short, this accident obliges the European Union to do some soul-searching and carry out an evaluation, and there must also be the readiness and political will to make adjustments if necessary. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, two locomotives were involved in this dreadful accident which were operated by the SNCB, the Belgian National Railways, on a state rail network.
Mr Grosch has already pointed out that the technology for stopping a train automatically when it passes a red signal has been in existence for more than 20 years.
Therefore, the question we must ask is why Belgium did not invest in this safety system over the last 20 years.
If they had built a motorway that was shorter by one or two kilometres, they would have had twice or three times the money needed to install these safety systems and avoid accidents like this one.
By 2020, 20 000 kilometres of railways will use this system in Europe, including Belgium.
I would like to make one more remark about liberalisation and public services: these are two different things.
In your liberal system, citizens who take the train have not become much-valued customers; they are still user-taxpayers who can be treated like cattle.
