Misleading business directories (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Erminia Mazzoni and Malcolm Harbour, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on misleading business directories (Ο-000087/2011 - Β7-0315/2011).
deputising for the author. - Madam President, two and a half years ago, I presented to this plenary a report on misleading business directories.
However, after submitting the form, victims receive a letter demanding payment of EUR 1 000 per year for three consecutive years.
The European City Guide, Construct Data, TEMDI, EU Business Services, World Business Directory, Expo Guide and DAD are still operating unabated.
In the period from 2003 to mid-2008, nearly 14 000 complaints and enquiries were documented.
I believe that given the cross-border nature of the problem, more cooperation between Member States on enforcement would also be absolutely crucial to stop the fraudulent practices.
The Commission could itself take a more active role in working together with the Member States on cross-border enforcement using existing EU-wide networks to facilitate cooperation between the Member States.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, honourable Members, the Commission shares the European Parliament's concerns and misgivings and its critical analysis of this issue.
The 2006 directive has been implemented by all the Member States.
In tiny print at the bottom of the letter, it said, as Mr Busuttil said earlier, that he had to pay EUR 1 000 a year.
Some time after that, the alleged legal department of the company sent out letters, which I have here, asking my fellow countryman to pay EUR 3 529.38, which apparently included interest and the company's legal costs.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (SK) Madam President, it is clear, first and foremost, that these companies are not only misleading, but are also fraudulent.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I would say to the Commissioner that over the last number of years, I have met many Irish citizens who have been victims of misleading business directory companies.
They may feel that within their own Member State they will be protected, but they are not sure what happens in another Member State.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, I know the European City Guide best and, in spite of attempts to close it down, this menace continues.
The penalties and fines incurred are often lower than the amounts collected in these scams.
We should encourage Member States to be stricter in this area. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, the Commission shares the European Parliament's concerns.
Whilst the Commission has clearly stated that the directive on misleading and comparative advertising outlaws the misleading practices of these directory companies, it must also look at the transposing of that directive by the Member States in order to clarify whether citizens are protected equally across Europe.
As my fellow Members have already said, at least three years have passed, three years during which these people, these hustlers, as they have rightly been called by numerous fellow Members - and I am with them - are misleading colleagues and are misleading small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the European economy.
It is as simple as that. (CS) Madam President, Parliament has received over 400 petitions, and I myself have received many complaints from businesses, non-profit organisations, schools, charities and even government institutions which have become victims of the fraud perpetrated by business directory companies.
In my opinion, a Europol investigation is also warranted. (CS) Madam President, the unfair practices of some of these so-called business directory companies continue to pose a serious problem.
I think that the victims of these practices must have the opportunity to have direct recourse to the justice system. (DE) Madam President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is really a European problem.
The problem is, and we have covered this on numerous occasions, we have Directive 2006/114/EC, we discussed the matter in 2008 in the Committee on Petitions, and we have held debates here in plenary, but the problem is continuing and even growing in size.
Thirdly, and now I am coming to the heart of the matter, the 2006 directive only covers unfair practices in business dealings between businesses and consumers and not between one business and another.
This means that we quite deliberately restricted ourselves on the basis of this directive to European regulation of dealings between fraudulent companies and citizens and not between fraudulent companies and small businesses.
We must wait and see whether these Member States will be prepared in the Council in a year's time to vote in favour of a general, EU-wide, standardised regulation to protect citizens who are also businesspeople.
I have received one motion for a resolution from the Committee on Petitions tabled in accordance with Rule 115(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
