Transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries (debate) The next item is the report by Carl Schlyter, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries - C7-0172/2010 -.
Now we have more than 300 cases and ongoing procedures.
I therefore hope that Amendment 13 will receive support.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the regulation on transitional arrangements for bilateral investment treaties is an important legislative initiative.
The Lisbon Treaty has entrusted the Union with a new exclusive competence on foreign direct investment.
The continued existence, since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, of more than 1 200 investment-related international agreements concluded by Member States is not questioned under international law.
It is very important that we are creating a new system, beginning by establishing a solid legal basis created by the agreements currently in force, and which were negotiated by Member States so that a common system of protection for the entire European Union could at last be established.
Ideally, we should have a clause that automatically repeals the 1 200 agreements currently in force.
I think that by adopting this legislative process, the Committee on International Trade is showing that we are capable of dealing with complex issues and complex dossiers within a reasonable timeframe. (RO) Madam President, since 2009, commercial policy has come under the exclusive remit of the European Union and we must now find a common denominator for a large part of foreign investment policy.
Indeed, the Netherlands has entered into 98 bilateral investment agreements with a very high level of protection.
This does not mean that the EU should not quickly conclude new agreements now that the Union has been reconstituted under the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to ask the Commission whether it actually recognises pacta sunt servanda in international law. (EL) Madam President, the adoption of a common foreign investment policy which safeguards equal treatment for all European investors is a very important move.
I repeat, the objective should be to maintain existing and simplify the procedure for executing and applying new bilateral agreements. (RO) Madam President, Member States' investment policies must be harmonised at EU level as part of a common commercial policy.
It is vital for bilateral agreements to remain in force and for Member States to be able to finalise negotiations or initiate new ones.
More than 1 200 bilateral investment agreements concluded by Member States under different, frequently incompatible, legal regimes need to be placed comprehensively under the auspices of the European Union without impairing the rights of the parties involved.
These new criteria, relating to incompatibilities with established policies of the Union or general principles of the Union set out in Article 21 of the Treaty, could be regarded as opening the door to all sorts of additional requirements that existing investment agreements should meet.
It is also good that we are in agreement that Articles 5 and 6 should be retained.
It is important for Articles 5 and 6 to be retained.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 10 May 2011.
It remains to be seen whether a move to coordinate the good 200 BITs in operation in the European Union can finally resolve the problem whereby binding BIT arbitration judgments based on international law entail commitments to investors by Member States that give rise to EU Treaty infringement proceedings.
I believe there is a lack of honesty in relation to this pseudo-humanitarian development aid.
