Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Carl Schlyter, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Daniel Caspary, on behalf of the PPE Group, Kader Arif, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Niccolò Rinaldi, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Helmut Scholz, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Syed Kamall, on behalf of the ECR Group, on transparency and the state of play of the ACTA negotiations (Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement) - B7-0020/2010) Mr President, each institution has to defend its role.
Parliament is the voice of the people of the EU and must uphold the interests of its citizens.
Many of our citizens are concerned that they are being robbed of their freedoms and rights by the continual torrents of invasive legislation, such as the legislation on data retention, Ipred 1, Ipred 2, SWIFT, and so on.
The main issue today is transparency, although naturally, the content is also sensitive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting, smuggling, and the violation of intellectual property rights doubtless pose a huge problem, first of all, for us as the European Union as a whole, but also for many Member States.
It is unacceptable that, in 2008, we confiscated 178 million counterfeit articles at our borders, 20 million of which were dangerous, with more than 50% of these articles coming from China.
The problem is clear: the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force on 1 December.
The first is, why are we still lacking transparency when the Treaty of Lisbon has been in force since 1 December and we have had an interinstitutional agreement with the Commission since 10 February?
However, when I look at individual papers that have leaked out I unfortunately have my doubts about this.
It seems to me that this original sin is also the result of an abuse: that of using the fight against counterfeiting to lead other battles as if it were a kind of watchword in the name of which anything is allowed.
Therefore, this is definitely something that we must take seriously in an increasingly global economy such as our own.
However, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights also govern your negotiations and we will remind you of this continually.
If you now claim that the concerns of my group are unfounded, then prove it.
Let me first recall that we are negotiating this agreement in order to improve the protection of 'made in Europe' innovation in all areas where intellectual property rights can be breached.
Those attempts have been systematically blocked by other countries.
We are doing our utmost in two areas: to inform Parliament, and to convince our negotiating partners to agree to more transparency.
Let me add to this that the Commission organised two stakeholder conferences on ACTA in June 2008 and April 2009, which were open to all citizens, industry, NGOs and the media.
Another public conference will be organised on 22 March in Brussels.
As you probably know, there is an agreement amongst ACTA parties that the negotiating text can only be made public if all parties agree.
In fact, considering that the Commission will not go beyond the acquis communautaire, we took as our basis the studies made for the 2004 directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and for the 2005 Proposal for a directive on criminal enforcement of IPR (which was not adopted).
We also considered the conclusions of the 2008 OECD study on the economic impact of counterfeiting and piracy.
However, we know that this is where the heart of European Union competitiveness resides.
Finally, I believe that with the development of our digital environment, we cannot deny that counterfeiting has become intangible.
Therefore, I remain convinced that it is possible to make Internet users, especially those who hijack copyright, liable without comprising respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his contribution.
I am not convinced that you have entirely grasped all our concerns about the ACTA negotiations.
I welcome the fact that you have given a strong commitment to get the draft negotiating text and that you will put pressure on the other parties.
I think you have to tell the other parties, though, that this will not strengthen you as a negotiator: it will weaken you as a negotiator if you cannot release the draft text, because you will not have - as was very clear tonight - the support of this House if we cannot see the draft text on which you are working.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, when preparing for this debate about copyright, intellectual property rights and how we want to protect the creative and intellectual efforts of our fellow citizens, I had to think back to the theft a couple of years ago of a truck containing the new Harry Potter books, just days before their release.
You may argue that there is no legal requirement but that is beside the point because, if 27 individuals - national ministers - consider that they can give themselves a mandate to negotiate in secret on the fundamental rights and freedoms of European citizens, I can only conclude that their understanding of democracy differs fundamentally from mine.
Personally, I welcome the fact that this agreement is coming into being, since intellectual property deserves better protection than is currently the case.
I also have concerns over the actual effectiveness of this agreement.
Since the content of the agreement is always veiled in a kind of mist, as many Members have mentioned here, I would like to call on the Commission, which is negotiating the agreement on behalf of the Member States, to ensure that it does not serve as an instrument for exporting the French digital guillotine to other states and, at the same time, does not become an importer of software patents into the European Union.
The consumer would be the victim, with the possibility of excluding citizens from the Internet: a very serious matter.
I do not want us to be faced again with a finished article, in other words, an act that we must approve or reject, without being able to discuss its content in detail and dispel the concerns of our citizens.
The fight against counterfeiting and commercial infringement plays an essential role in this context.
However, the protection of trademarks, patents and intellectual property are not only nonfinancial instruments that make the system more competitive, they are also a tangible example of the application to the industrial economy of principles of a democratic legal culture founded on respect for the rules, for those rules which have been violated in past years under the force of international financial speculation.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) is a fundamental instrument with which to combat counterfeiting, a phenomenon which yields incredible revenues of USD 500 billion per year, which has links with organised crime and which affects - indeed threatens - fundamental human rights such as health, if we only think of the counterfeiting of medicines.
Those who represent, as this Parliament does, 500 million citizens, must be informed officially, not confidentially.
In addition, counterfeit medicines can have life-threatening consequences for people who take these medicines unaware that they are counterfeit.
It also goes without saying that it is very much in our interests to take action in this regard.
Secondly, it must doubtless be clear that the European Commission's negotiating mandate should be strictly confined within the framework of the acquis communautaire to ensure that ACTA does not, in future, stand for 'another crazy treaty agreed'.
In other words, the European Parliament expects complete transparency and publication of the negotiation documents along with all other relevant papers.
Secondly, can the Commission guarantee that there will be no introduction of third-party liability on the part of Internet service providers for the content that they transmit?
However, I assume that, as guardian of the treaties, you will do what is expected of you. (DE) Mr President, Mr De Gucht, more than a year ago, the European Parliament asked you, the Commission, very clearly to make the negotiations on the ACTA Agreement transparent in future and to involve the public and the parliaments in these negotiations.
As of 1 December of last year, in many areas, you will no longer be able to ignore us and conduct your back-room politics with the Council, because the citizens - represented by their Parliament - have, quite rightly, finally put an end to this behaviour through the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore ask myself, what are you actually doing in this regard?
If you do not believe that you can guarantee compliance with the treaties in these negotiations, then please stop the negotiations until you can do so.
I would remind you, Commissioner, that Article 218 of the Treaty of Lisbon states, and I quote: 'The European Parliament shall be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure' in the framework of the negotiation or conclusion of international agreements.
Indeed, interpretation of one offence - piracy - and its punishment will seemingly, in future, no longer be delegated to a judicial authority but to Internet access providers.
Commissioner, put this agreement on the table immediately. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) is fundamental for achieving full harmonisation of the measures to protect European trade from counterfeiting and piracy.
We must all make a commitment to stop this happening because this is not only a question of individual privacy; it is also a question of our countries' security. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, an agreement behind closed doors is not something the European public either deserves or wants.
The European Union is currently negotiating a very important trade agreement, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), and once again, this is being done in back rooms.
The national parliaments and the European Parliament have not had a single opportunity for democratic scrutiny of the substance or scope of the negotiations, as the negotiating parties have agreed on a confidentiality clause.
As a new colegislator on this issue, the Treaty of Lisbon now guarantees us the right to full information at the same time as it is received by the Council.
I find such a turnaround extremely dangerous, as it would call into question the acquis communautaire, not only on the principle of mere conduit - referred to in French as simple transport - in the eCommerce Directive, but also in relation to respect for the fundamental rights of the citizens, which was brought up recently in our debate on the Telecoms package.
I welcome the work of our coordinator, Mr Arif, and of all of the negotiators from the Committee on International Trade, who have ensured that the signal that the European Parliament will give tomorrow will be extremely symbolic because it is unanimous. (EL) Mr President, counterfeit goods not only harm the competitiveness of European undertakings, but also harbour dangers to human health.
David Martin put the question, what happens when somebody is, in fact, leaving not only the European Union but leaving a country that is a party to the ACTA Agreement?
The case is that the Council gives a mandate to the Commission, and the Commission negotiates, and the Council has taken a decision on a mandate following their own rules of procedure.
Look at other countries where this also happened in the past: now they have much more interest in intellectual property rights.
I do not quite agree on the interpretation by Mr Le Hyaric and Mrs Trautmann concerning Article 218.
What we do by way of information goes far beyond what is mentioned in Article 218, far beyond, but I have no problem with that.
By the way, let me say to Ms in 't Veld, we sent you Annex 16 to the agreed statement by all ACTA participants about maintaining the confidentiality of documents.
That was sent to you by the Director-General, Mr David O'Sullivan, on 21 January 2009.
Finally, let me make it very clear that what I have been saying and what I said in the hearing should be taken seriously.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 10 March 2010.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, which is currently being negotiated by the European Commission, goes beyond the principle of proportionality, which is enshrined in EU law.
The chapter on the Internet is a cause of particular anxiety.
in writing. - The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement has a mandate which is vital for the protection of Intellectual Property Rights.
Under Lisbon, this agreement requires the approval of this House and I would guess from my colleagues that the way the agreement is developing, it will receive a cold reception.
Negotiations surrounding ACTA need to be more open, and the Commission and Council need to show their willingness in this by ensuring Parliament has broad access to documents on the issue.
in writing. - I hope that the written declaration on ACTA that I submitted two weeks ago together with my colleagues, Castex, Alvaro and Roithová, and today's debate will serve as a belated wake-up call to the Council and the Commission.
Access to the Internet is itself a fundamental right.
The European Commission's negotiations relating to the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) have raised a few questions.
