EU-Mauritania Fisheries Partnership Agreement (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on negotiations regarding the renewal of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Mauritania by Carmen Fraga Estévez, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries - B7-0018/2011).
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Fraga Estévez, the Chair of the Committee on Fisheries, for this oral question and to say that I very much welcome the involvement of Parliament in these procedures.
This will enable us to react more effectively to problems in the implementation of sectoral support and, at the same time, to secure the access payment and thus, the fishing activities of EU vessels, because we would not like to disrupt the fishing activities of EU vessels.
The Commission also retained EUR 9 million out of a total of EUR 18 million - half of the total - until a higher absorption was reached.
The CAS will become operational during the first semester of 2011.
The establishment of this new special account will contribute towards guaranteeing that the funds allocated go directly to the sectoral support.
Lastly, investments by the EU fishing sector are made in line with the Mauritania action plan.
The Protocol to the EU-Mauritania Fisheries Partnership Agreement is due to be renewed on 31 December 2012.
With 900 000 tonnes' worth of catches, this agreement also represents the greatest fishing potential.
Firstly, there is the lack of infrastructure, in particular, the lack of a port in Nouakchott, which affects the development of local fisheries and, more broadly speaking, affects the European Union's investments.
I repeat, Mr President, we are just fine here in Strasbourg, where this House belongs.
In fact, the role and intervention of Parliament will be to foster better agreements in general which, as in the case of Mauritania, need to be applied correctly.
We must remember that we put around EUR 75 million into this agreement every year, which means that a quarter of Mauritania's state budget is financed by our Community fisheries funding.
We must also remember that, as recently as 2007, the European Commission itself proposed that this agreement should be discontinued because it did not provide the desired added value for Europe that an agreement ought to provide.
We have to say that our experience during our visit indicates that the local fishermen have not seen much of the approximately EUR 18 million that ought to be pumped into the local fisheries annually from the money we use down there.
Finally, as has already been mentioned here, we in the European Parliament have a responsibility for these issues, as we have to give our consent to all these agreements.
And on the point of taking into account the best available scientific advice on fish stocks, well, the 2010 FAO Northwest Africa Small Pelagic Fish Working Group concluded that horse mackerel, chub mackerel, sardinellas, sardines, anchovy and bonga were either fully or overexploited.
As for demersal fish, the biomass has been reduced by 75% on the Mauritanian continental shelf since 2007.
Mr President, the European Union has had fishing agreements with Mauritania for over two decades.
For 15 years, these agreements have included specific objectives on cooperation regarding the sustainable development of the fisheries sector in Mauritania.
The inexistence of adequate facilities for unloading catches along the more than 600 km of coastline of the country's central and southern regions is especially incomprehensible: it means that a substantial proportion of the fish caught in Mauritania's coastal waters is unloaded in the ports of other countries.
If what we want is genuine and beneficial development cooperation, we must move toward making profound changes and involve the Mauritanian authorities in the discussion. (PT) Mr President, fisheries agreements with third countries should ensure a fair balance between economic interests and promoting sustainable fishing.
The agreement reinforces bilateral cooperation between the European Union and Mauritania, and must guarantee sustainable fishing.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank everybody for their interventions.
I would also like to remind you that we have a new framework agreement between the Commission and the Parliament on the details of this involvement.
Finally, I would like to say to you that, if you bear in mind that this new protocol will include a humanitarian clause and a human rights clause, it will be a win-win situation for us and for Mauritania to have this agreement.
