Conclusions of the European Council meeting (24-25 March 2011) (debate) The next item is the statement by the President of the European Council: Conclusions of the European Council meeting (24-25 March 2011).
President of the European Council. - Mr President, President of the European Commission, honourable Members, within the space of 49 days, I have chaired 3 meetings of the European Council and a Summit of Heads of State and Government of the eurozone.
Indeed, in the meeting on which I am reporting today - that of 24 and 25 March - we duly approved a significant set of economic measures that have been prepared and discussed over the last year, we stepped up our action with regard to ongoing events in Libya and we initiated our response to the catastrophic events in Japan.
Allow me to take each of those issues in turn.
On economic issues, we took forward a comprehensive package of measures.
Under the impulse of earlier meetings, including the informal eurozone summit of 11 March, we were able to bring together almost all the strengths of this endeavour.
Number one: we agreed on the Treaty amendment needed to give full legal certainty to the permanent Stability Mechanism.
We followed that advice, and I was delighted when Parliament endorsed the proposed Treaty amendment by such an overwhelming majority on 23 March.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Brok and Mr Gualtieri, for working so closely with me to achieve this result.
It is an exercise in which we follow up the implementation of the EU 2020 Strategy, the Stability and Growth Pact and macroeconomic surveillance.
The European Council in June will draw the necessary conclusions.
The task is double: the banks must do the test and governments must be ready to deal with the outcome of the tests.
Let me say once again that the political commitment of the Euro Plus Pact comes on top of all the other measures in the package to improve Member States' economic performance: the stronger Stability and Growth Pact on fiscal surveillance, the new macroeconomic surveillance and implementation of the crucial EU 2020 Strategy on structural reforms to achieve economic growth.
We want to make sure that our economies are competitive enough to create jobs and to sustain the welfare of all our citizens and that is what our work is about.
I should now like to turn to the situation in Libya, which was, of course, something we discussed on 24 and 25 March.
Regional support was immediately forthcoming from the Arab League.
The Union also coordinated rescue efforts for EU citizens and has provided, and continues to provide, substantial humanitarian aid.
We strongly condemn the escalation of violence and we support political and social reforms in our southern neighbourhood.
Allow me to say a few words on Côte d'Ivoire as well.
In these tragic days, as true friends of Japan, we reiterate the strategic importance of the EU-Japan relationship.
In Europe, we want the highest standard for nuclear safety, because ensuring the safety of nuclear plants cannot stop at our borders.
Mr President, honourable Members, that concludes my summary of what we agreed at this, the third meeting of the European Council this year.
Much of it paves the way for further work in this Parliament, be it through legislative procedures or through Parliament's general right of scrutiny over the common foreign and security policy.
I think it is fair to say that some very important structural decisions were made for the sake of greater financial stability in the euro area and greater economic coordination.
And last but not least, in assessing the results of this Council, we should not overlook the fact that the framework is in keeping with the provisions of the Treaty and adheres to a Community approach.
The Commission was at the forefront of the joint response to the economic crisis and the vision for Europe in 2020.
It received vital support from this Parliament, and once again I would like to thank you for this.
The stance that Parliament and the Commission have taken together to defend the Community approach have been acknowledged and have played an important part in obtaining these results.
Under this new framework, we will need to be determined in implementing without further delay the necessary public finance consolidation and structural reform priorities for growth that this European Council confirmed, based on the Commission's annual growth survey.
I am confident that our determination over the coming weeks and months will be as strong as, if not stronger than, the determination we have shown until now in establishing the various components of our joint response to the crisis in a cohesive and coordinated way: the European semester, the Euro Plus Pact, the new strengthened economic governance framework and the steps we have taken in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility to maintain the euro area's financial stability.
I do not mind telling you that the Commission would have liked to have gone further in several areas of economic governance, especially in relation to the euro area's new financial stability mechanism.
Nonetheless, I think we can say that we have succeeded in securing a mechanism that is anchored in the Treaty, with a strong role for the Commission and monitoring by this Parliament.
We want to free up the single market's potential for growth.
While we are on the subject of fair growth, it is important to emphasise that the European Council also gave its verdict on the possibility of levying a tax on international financial transactions.
The President of the Council has given us a very detailed report.
I would simply like to mention that I had a meeting with the Tunisian Prime Minister yesterday.
I reiterated our support for the democratic revolution and our readiness to help the Tunisian people in their quest for freedom, justice and social progress.
I also mentioned in this context the matter of migration, which Tunisia and the EU must tackle jointly in a constructive spirit and one of genuine partnership, since it is a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity that we have proposed and that has been very well received by the European Council.
There is another subject that the European Council dealt with, namely the crisis in Japan, in particular the nuclear situation.
Prime Minister Kan informed me about the situation in Japan and the latest safety developments and signalled his readiness to cooperate with us in relation to the work to be done on nuclear safety in Europe and the rest of the world.
Mr President, honourable Members, we must not disappoint the hopes that have been pinned on our capacity to act together for Europe's common good.
Mr President, President of the European Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentleman, the last European Council has set our countries on the right track.
By increasing the capacity of the Solidarity Fund and deciding to make it permanent, the 27 have once again demonstrated their commitment to the euro and the importance they place on solidarity between the more financially stable countries and those facing temporary difficulties.
At the same time, the decision to seal a euro pact between eurozone countries, and further afield, is indicative of the political will of European leaders to draw lessons from the financial crisis.
The fact that we share a currency forces us to be more coherent in our economic and social choices.
The reason for this is simple: all countries should benefit from the solidarity of their eurozone partners.
In this respect, the euro pact is a major step forwards towards the convergence of our economies.
You are taking the right steps, you have done some good work, but more needs to be done within this Community method under the auspices of the Commission.
Europe sets itself apart from the rest of the world with its model of the social market economy, a model which our fellow citizens are quite rightly proud of and which is based on the principle of solidarity, but one which is difficult to preserve in the face of globalisation.
Without massive investment in innovation, without a genuine European plan, we are denying ourselves the ability to keep up with our competitors.
On these two matters, our countries and the European Union have shown a great sense of responsibility.
We have in fact offered Japan our nuclear expertise in what is an extremely difficult and worrying situation for that country, and also for the international community at large.
If I were President of the European Council I would probably also be anxious to portray this permanent Congress of Vienna in the most dazzling terms.
You mentioned Libya.
We need to ask ourselves why these steps were not taken in spring 2010?
The answer is that in the European Council, the institution headed up by you, it is not the Community method, community spirit and shared objectives that determine what is discussed and agreed, but rather that national tactical interests ultimately play a greater role than common European interests.
However, I would have expected a clear statement from the Head of the Commission about jockeying at national political level and its negative impact on the European Union - after all the collapse of the Portuguese Government coincided precisely with the moment that the government resolved to do exactly what the stability framework required of it.
That is why we need a financial transaction tax, so that we can make sure that these banks carry some of the cost of this financial crisis.
One result is that Europe 2020 and the Lisbon process are extremely positive developments, however they are bound to fail if we only cut budgets unilaterally in the context of Europe's economic development.
Look at the level of public investment in India.
Europe is cutting back to death, which is why we should declare a method of attaining our goals, namely the Europe 2020 objectives, as the legally binding basis in the 'six-pack' for economic governance.
On top of that, the ECB has accepted EUR 100 billion of collateral to give liquidity to the banks in Europe.
In total, that is EUR 400 billion that we have invested in this crisis in recent months.
So that is the situation: EUR 400 billion that we have invested.
In this regard I would like to quote Nout Wellink, the President of the Dutch national bank, who published his annual report a few days ago.
He says three things about the outcome of our decisions and those of the Council in recent weeks.
The third thing he mentioned is that financial supervision is being conducted on too national a basis.
We can even add a number of other elements.
The problem has not been solved and the economic recovery in Europe will not start if we do not first of all deal with that problem.
Not only do they have the old products from the financial crisis still in their portfolios, but they now also have a number of bonds in their portfolios from problematic countries whose ratings are going down every day and at least every week.
Creating a European bond market is the only way out of the crisis.
Mr President, President of the European Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess, Mr Van Rompuy, that Mr Schulz has quoted a little German song to you.
The direct equivalent in French is known as 'Tout va très bien, Madame la Marquise, il n'y a pas de problème'.
I have to say I am astonished at how things are presented here.
We are not here to waste our time.
And if the European Union does not change its ways, does not try to respond to this feeling of injustice, this feeling of inequality or the reality of inequality, the reality of insecurity, well the people will hear 'competitiveness' and understand it as 'they are going to hit us again'.
If we fail to address this problem, citizens will turn their backs on us, fuelling the extreme right anti-European wave across Europe.
And they would have good reason to: because we are not capable of responding to this feeling of inequality, injustice and insecurity.
As far as Eurobonds are concerned, as mentioned by Mr Verhofstadt, what we need to tell citizens and what we need to mobilise is indeed a defence fund, but if we have no investment fund, if we can show no real evidence of wanting to get the machinery going again - and that is why we need Eurobonds not only for defence but also for investment - well, if we do not go down that road, citizens will fail to understand anything and in particular this policy.
For example, deciding on a minimum wage across Europe, not necessarily the same level, but merely introducing the concept of a minimum wage.
It is something that should be raised in the context of the economic and social governance of Europe.
it will not be phased out overnight, but if we do not phase out nuclear power, we must stop talking about nuclear safety.
Mr President, the most important topic at the recent European Council was the economy and the stability of the eurozone.
You are well aware that most of the MEPs in the group of the European Conservatives and Reformists are from countries outside the eurozone, and most are from countries that have not even joined the pact for the euro.
It is an attempt to take a further step towards the creation of fiscal union, and therefore towards full political union.
I have been sitting here since 2004, and whenever there is a problem I hear the same old phrase: 'We need more Europe, we need a more Community-based approach'.
My second point relates to our southern neighbourhood and Libya in particular.
The EU Member States have become involved in a macabre situation in North Africa, particularly in Libya.
My third point relates to Japan.
I can tell you that the victims of Lockerbie in Scotland and the victims of IRA atrocities in my country knew very well what sort of scoundrel this man was.
The most absurd figure in all this is the British Prime Minister, who stands there rattling his empty scabbard - having disestablished the Royal Navy, having disestablished the Royal Air Force - making threats from the sidelines, with no aircraft carriers, nothing, and calls himself a Conservative but is just a superannuated schoolboy whistling in the dark.
There will be a permanent support fund for the euro, a fund that will support Member States that have plundered their national exchequers and that will transfer the risks to those Member States that keep their own houses in order.
On paper, every Member State will contribute to the fund, including Ireland, Greece and Portugal.
Instead, these countries should be removed from it.
Greece must get the drachma back and Portugal must re-introduce the escudo.
Some countries must accept that they will have to leave the euro area and they have themselves entirely to blame for that. (DE) Mr President, the results of the summit meeting were an important interim step, however the true test is yet to come.
If these results are handled like everything else, including the Stability and Growth Pact, and if the Member States do not adhere to them, then they are not worth the paper they are printed on.
It is more than two and a half years since the collapse of Lehmann Brothers and where are we now?
It has taken us two and a half years to reach this point.
The responsible Commissioner rejected the proposals for a financial market transaction tax the last time they were brought forward.
However, we found that national self-interest needs to be overcome at Council level too and that Parliament needed to fortify the Commission in its role in amending the Constitution.
If we do not have the courage to demand greater commitment to Europe from national governments, then we will never achieve a meaningful, lasting solution.
However, in the Portuguese case your party also voted against the programme.
I would ask everyone to play their part in ensuring that this partisan national attitude has no future as we work to solve this problem. (PT) Madam President, President Van Rompuy, President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, there is a question that the European public is asking: will the European Council make the necessary choices and will they be the right ones to get us through the crisis?
I do, however, have one concern that goes beyond technical detail and what you have told us.
I therefore believe that if there is one task that falls to you, President of the European Council, and to you too, Mr Barroso, it is to prevent this divide from growing and becoming entrenched at all costs.
One last point: I find the European Council extremely inward-looking.
Nothing is said about productivity or our resources.
You talk to us about stress tests.
The solution, we are told, is firstly to abuse the existing rules such as Article 122 of the Treaty, which was never intended for the bailouts that it has been used to pay for - my hope is that some country will have the courage to challenge this in the European Courts - and to impose more limitations on our Member States, which in reality means constraining the democratic choice of many of the electorates.
If you look at the case of Ireland, that country has tried its very best to stabilise its banking system - stabilisation, incidentally, which is desperately needed by banks and institutions in other Member States, which would otherwise be terribly exposed - and Ireland's reward for that is to face demands from other Member States to increase its own rates of corporation tax in order to compete with the bloated situations in other countries.
So my proposal is that we incorporate the identification and protection of the economic and geographical borders of Europe within the Euro Pact, otherwise we will not be able to achieve a competitive Europe within a very strongly aggressive competitive global economy. (NL) Madam President, if the crisis in Libya illustrates anything well, in my opinion it is primarily the total lack of a serious European geopolitical strategy to secure European interests.
Personally, I would like these European efforts and muscle to be somewhat more visible in the military guarding of our own external borders.
It is an important step, but it is also a step on a very difficult road that we have to go down in order to restore confidence in the euro and in our economy so as to get out of this crisis by promoting economic growth and jobs.
This House - you said it - has a co-legislative role in respect of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance.
We want to see more ambition in the package and you should enter into discussions with Parliament in the forthcoming period in that regard.
You have already heard various Members say that we want to see a more robust Stability and Growth Pact with a reverse voting mechanism.
It involves a greater commitment to elaborating on those principles in order to promote growth and jobs for our citizens.
We want to anchor these objectives in the national reform programmes - and I have heard Mr Barroso talk about this - and we should bring forward proposals to that effect.
The bank stress tests have just concluded, based on the most pessimistic scenarios in Ireland.
The new Irish Government has drawn a line under the Irish banking debacle.
It has, to everyone's surprise in Ireland, decided that there will be no haircuts for senior bond holders in the Allied Irish Bank and the Bank of Ireland.
The Irish economic crisis is an integral part of the European crisis.
The failure of the Irish economy would not only be a failure for Europe, but would be a failure of Europe.
I could focus on the problems that those decisions you have taken in the Council will entail and they certainly will entail problems, but the positive aspect is nevertheless that you have made progress when it comes to economic governance and the macroeconomic aspect.
However, what I feel to be a little worrying is the fact that the Council seems to lack the will to change its own decision-making culture.
Not all Finns think like this, but it is a good illustration of the fact that the decision-making culture in the Council needs to change. (PL) Madam President, the new structure of public finances in the European Union was based on an attempt to strengthen healthy financial rules and public expenditure and on an entirely unhealthy desire to limit the tax sovereignty of the Member States.
I doubt very much that the Euro Plus countries would be in a position jointly to impose strict rules on themselves in the field of public expenditure, since they could not do so individually.
On the other hand, I am in no doubt that standardising the tax base is an effective step towards a tax union, which has only one objective - the elimination of tax competition within the European Union.
This European shock doctrine will be facilitated by a change to the Treaties, on which the establishment in Europe and Ireland are determined to avoid a referendum.
The Socialist Party and the Left in Ireland will demand a referendum on this proposal for permanent austerity. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this Council meeting looked at three highly important matters: the environmental and nuclear disaster that has struck Japan, the financial crisis that is sweeping across Europe and the situation in the Maghreb.
It is essential to set out a package of assistance to help Member States escape the current situation, thereby ensuring stability across the whole euro area.
We need to be realistic: we need a debt haircut, at least in Greece and probably also in Portugal.
Events in Greece will serve to arouse emotions.
We were part of a special delegation to the country: the underlying attitude is that the EU is responsible for the problems in Greece because of a lack of clear communication and because the necessary steps, which are already obvious, are not being taken.
The so-called stress tests being prepared will only make sense and credibility in a cohesive Europe will only be restored if these stress tests are performed according to stringent criteria and not according to the weak criteria of the IAO, if genuinely independent experts are consulted and if the events and the entire process is presented to the public in an appropriate and understandable way. (IT) Madam President, President of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in my political worldview, ideals need to be reconciled with interests.
In what is perhaps a slightly orderly and naive view of the European Institutions, I think the European Institutions represent our ideals while, for many reasons, our governments represent our interests.
Some weeks ago, when Parliament proposed to recognise, or rather proposed that the Commission should recommend to the Council that it recognise the Provisional Libyan Council, Baroness Ashton said that it was not within her mandate.
I would therefore like to make this observation: who are our attacking players?
They are the European Institutions: Parliament, the Commission and even you, Mr Van Rompuy, because I think that you do not represent the Council in the sense that you defend its interests but you are the man that can make the Council understand which ideals to focus on.
I therefore simply ask: if you are our attacking players, pass the ball around, attack, score goals and - as we say about this kind of game - make us dream. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the establishment of a permanent stability mechanism is an important achievement that provides the foundations for the political commitment to defend the euro at all costs.
In this vein, the reference in the European Council's conclusions to a regulation establishing the procedures to define the conditional requirements is important and we now expect the Commission to come up with a suitable proposal.
If we want to treat the illness and not merely the symptoms, then we need to tackle a number of basic problems.
We cannot bring in a model for recovery driven solely by exports to third countries, because this will accentuate imbalances.
We need to equip ourselves with instruments such as Eurobonds, the tax on financial transactions and a budget worthy of the name, in order to make large-scale public investment at a European level that can provide a kick-start for private investment.
A strong commitment to the single market is key to competitiveness in the EU and therefore the euro area.
That is welcome, but single market initiatives remain in the framework of the Treaty and the 27.
I understand the need for discipline and risk provision, but these rescue mechanisms are not for money-making, especially when there is self interest beyond eurozone stability, such as several Member State banks being supported by Irish taxpayers, as has been mentioned.
You are using the wrong instruments because you are taking the money from the taxpayer to support the banks and those who speculate with the banks and other financial products.
This does nothing to resolve the actual problems, but simply remedies some of the symptoms. (NL) Madam President, for years, many Member States operated a budgetary policy that seemed just too good to be true.
Decentralised and less-stifled markets are vital for economic welfare, not punitive regulatory measures. (DE) Madam President, as we know, three explosive issues were discussed at the meeting of the European Council in which the EU decisions were, in my view, characterised by incorrigibility and a failure to grasp reality.
On the one hand, the EUR 700 billion rescue package will soon be exhausted and may also drag the EU's net contributors into ruin.
We must, however, understand that this will present a new and formidable problem, namely political acceptance of the decisions thus taken, on two levels.
However, if, over a number of consecutive years, we continue down the same political path, we run the risk of heightening national tensions.
This is the thrust of the amendments adopted by Parliament, and we should thank and congratulate Mr Juncker and you, Mr Van Rompuy, for having adopted them.
The only way in which these recommendations can acquire political legitimacy is to ensure that national parliaments are involved from the very outset, throughout the process of the European semester, and yet the Council conclusions only mention these parliaments in passing, in the same category as regions, social partners and NGOs.
The decisions taken mean we now have to explore a new dimension of European democracy. (Applause) (DE) Madam President, the Council and Commission are quite right when they suggest that the public budgets in Europe need to be consolidated.
My last question is: Where is the income to be found that will enable us to move forward out of the crisis?
Mr Barroso, we await your proposal on the financial transaction tax in Europe, something that this House has backed with a large majority.
Give Europe a chance and avoid wasting any more time with pious words. (DE) Madam President, Mr Barroso, Mr Van Rompuy, listening to you carefully one gets the impression that everything is ship-shape: the euro is secure, we have a new Stability and Growth Pact, we have an ESM and we have a Euro Plus Pact.
It is already obvious that many Member States will not be able to meet the conditions of the new Stability and Growth Pact with the best will in the world.
The war in Libya goes on.
That is why the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact is of utmost importance, not only to reach the aims and targets but also to have credibility in the economies of Europe.
That is the main task we need to deal with in order to fight poverty and create jobs, but also to secure prosperity.
Of course, Member States have a fundamental responsibility here to restructure budgets, giving priority to social security and investments in growth at the same time as deficits are reduced.
That is what Member States must do - and much more - but let us also underline what the European Union as such must do.
Seventy percent of the European economy is in the service sector, but the Services Directive is rather limited in that perspective.
The future of the European economy lies in the service sector and the knowledge economy.
Day in day out you decide to save banks; meanwhile, the Irish are sinking.
When I look at the opinions of the European Central Bank today, I get the feeling that it is more concerned about what is not included in its mandate, namely wage levels, than about the viability of our banking system and its effectiveness in bringing about the public investment we need.
This Parliament has submitted proposals on the taxation of financial transactions and on Eurobonds, but you refuse to consider them.
Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Barroso, it is time that you listened to the proposals coming from this House, to ensure that the strategy that you yourselves have adopted is a success. (SV) Madam President, at its recent meeting, the Council also debated the issue of the safety of nuclear power plants and European reactors.
I believe that most European citizens probably believed that stress tests had been a matter of course as part of the safety measures with regard to nuclear power for decades.
We also need to renegotiate the institutional structure, which is as old as the European Union.
Therefore, you must be very well aware that our problem is not simply to face up to the crisis, but to face up to the political and social consequences of that crisis.
That is why, on 24 and 25 March, the European Council took important, even spectacular, steps in the right direction.
The Euro Plus Pact does, without a doubt, represent a step forward but much remains to be done.
The crisis is still there, there are 23 million unemployed and there are still important clouds on our horizon and major challenges to face.
That is why we need a three-dimensional pact with the citizens of Europe because there are limits to austerity policies and we need to promote a policy of growth and employment through investment in order to redefine our economic model and fulfil the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
A policy of fiscal and financial sustainability requires a European framework as much in the area of sovereign debt as in the recapitalisation of financial bodies and we need a genuine European social pact to introduce improved productivity, with social standards, progress in taxation and the bringing of the welfare state up to date. - (CS) Madam President, what happened at the European Council meeting on 24 and 25 March 2011, and the contents of the text that was adopted, amounts to a narrative on the promotion of fiscal unity by the back door.
I consider the proposed harmonisation of the underpinnings of corporation tax to be particularly inappropriate. (PT) Madam President, President of the Council, President of the Commission, firstly, I would naturally like to congratulate you on the results of the Council meeting of 24 and 25 March, particularly on the consolidation of the European semester, but much more than this, on the institutionalisation of the European Stability Mechanism and on the Euro Plus Pact that came out of the euro area summit of 11 March.
I believe that, if we had given this signal, if the Member States had given this signal in the Council, completing this fund reform package in full, we would be in a stronger position today for facing the next 3-4 months, and we would have partly alleviated the effects of the crisis currently being experienced in my country, Portugal, about which I also need to say something.
In contrast to what the government of the Portuguese Socialist Party (PS) has done, the PSD has been demonstrating its total willingness to provide Europe with the guarantees necessary in the context of this crisis.
Therefore, without bringing domestic politics into the European Parliament, I would like to signal the PSD's commitment to and complete guarantee of the strict timetable that the country will need to adhere to following its elections on 5 June. (HU) Madam President, President of the Commission, President of the European Council, the agreement reached at the European Summit was the first major political success of the current Hungarian Presidency.
The European Union, which considers solidarity an asset, must help.
These objectives, Commission President and President of the Council, have already been formulated in the 2020 objectives.
The European Parliament, in two recent resolutions, and prominent figures across the entire political spectrum have pointed out that, if we want an effective and global response to the debt crisis, we need to seriously consider the possibility of a system for issuing Eurobonds.
At the same time, the majority in the European Council tells us that this cannot happen, because it would create a moral hazard for fiscally healthy countries in times of crisis.
If we truly want private individuals to be involved and fairer cost-sharing, then we should seriously examine the question of a financial transaction tax as a matter of priority, so that some of the revenue can be used to finance the permanent mechanism. (BG) Madam President, Mr Barroso, Mr Van Rompuy, the crisis which we are going through at the moment confirms the need for visionaries in Europe, not only among decision makers but among ordinary citizens too.
It is sad, but true.
The Euro Plus Pact and the decisions made by the Council mark a step in the right direction.
I am pleased about and it is the right decision for 60 countries outside the euro area, including my country, Bulgaria, to join the Pact so that they can actively participate in the decision-making process on economic policies, enabling Europe to move away from different standards and principles.
Indeed, the day is perhaps not far off when there will be a new intergovernmental conference or even a convention on economic and political governance issues in Europe.
The European Union must be actively committed when it comes to establishing democracy after the end of the conflict and help the Libyan people create a constitutional state and civil society.
Finally, Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Barroso, Europe needs operational rapid-reaction forces which can carry out missions under the European Union flag.
No one can be against that.
However, rigour should not mean zero deficit or austerity, but rather intelligent spending.
Member States should be free from the pressures of financial markets thanks to a European Central Bank with a strengthened role, and we should have better regulated rating agencies, a solidarity-based model which guarantees genuine social and territorial cohesion in Europe, notably through an increased European budget, with a fundamental reform of its own resources and with the introduction, at last, of the tax on financial transactions.
There is a clear democratic deficit today, and if the Council and the Commission continue to make proposals that fail to take Parliament's opinion into account, our fellow citizens will reject our project even more. (NL) Madam President, the last year has seen a great deal of very hard work and a number of reforms have been set in train in order to ensure that, in future, too, the European Union can remain a society in which living and working is good and just.
During the financial crisis I often heard both the Commission President and the President of the European Council talk in praising terms of automatic stabilisers.
Instead of sharp peaks and troughs these would ensure that we have a more stable economy with fewer job losses, which fits in perfectly with the social market economy that we want to be.
However, some people now fear that an all-too-heavy focus on the labour costs factor in the Euro Plus Pact could too greatly limit the leeway for these automatic stabilisers to operate.
First, I think that the Council summit meeting brought very important and positive results, given the difficulty of the situation and the context.
At the same time, we are creating a European stability mechanism safety net.
The safety net should be open so that both convergence and solidarity, which is ESM, may be inclusive and not exclusive.
But when we create this new paradigm it should also be applicable to the East.
My third point concerns EU-NATO.
Let us aim to be successful this time. (LV) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must draw a clear dividing line between the past and the future.
As far as the future is concerned, we must look to what after all is our goal for Europe.
It will ensure the confidence of the financial markets in these countries, which will in turn ensure low interest rates, so that businesses in those countries may again recover and develop.
The future mechanism will ensure a stable, consistent response to any situations where the euro area is destabilised.
All Member States must help maintain stability, whether they are part of the euro area or not.
However, these priorities must be very quickly converted into specific domestic measures.
The Union needs a strategy which will help create jobs and relieve the shortages in the EU's labour market.
However, I regret to say that the priority measures which will give new impetus to the single market and competitiveness do not include any mention of the need to ensure the free movement of all European workers, focusing only on the free movement of services. (MT) Madam President, the people fleeing the war in Libya are now coming to Europe, especially to Lampedusa and Malta.
In my country, people have two concerns.
President Barroso has said that the economic situation remains difficult and uncertain, Mr Verhofstadt has confirmed that we are filling in the holes, but that the crisis has not been solved, and President Van Rompuy has said that the problems remain.
I was interested in the comments made by Catherine Day, a senior Commission official, in Ireland last week when she said that the shine had gone off Ireland.
I hope, too, that it comes back to our people, who are very depressed and disillusioned by a feeling that they carry a very heavy burden for the rest of the European Union.
I will conclude my speech by asking whether the moment has not come for the Commission to provide us with a comprehensive report on public support to credit institutions, and in particular on all financial flows and on sovereign debt.
In other words, what had previously been a three- or six-monthly event is now the habitual manner of governing the Union in order to provide an immediate response to immediate challenges.
That is why no responsible national parliament can accept it in such a form.
It would be impossible for developed economies to compete with manufactured imports from these countries without driving our wages down to their levels.
For that reason the recent EU-IMF bail-out hurt the Irish people badly.
For that reason I would ask two things: one, the interest rate should be reduced, and I would like to thank Commissioner Rehn and President Barroso for their vibes in that regard.
At a time when 16 million Europeans are out of work, prices are soaring and speculative shocks are shaking the continent, the Council is placing the burden of sacrifice on labour and workers instead of on capital, and that is unacceptable. (HU) Madam President, President Van Rompuy assessed the Euro Plus Pact as a new stage of future economic coordination, and this is indeed an entirely new period in the field of macroeconomic coordination.
Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, viewed it similarly, describing it as a pillar of the future European economic system.
At the same time, it is unfortunate that Hungary's name was not among those listed by President Van Rompuy, because regrettably Hungary is not taking part in the Euro Plus Pact.
Very many Hungarian citizens and economists do not understand either why the Hungarian Government decided in this way, because Hungary is a small country with an open economy, and the argument that this would have obstructed tax competition is unsound since it is only about the harmonisation of the corporate tax base.
This would certainly represent a better investment than simply squandering the money in the casinos of the international rating agencies. (PT) Madam President, those who are pushing Portugal into this supposed aid do not really want to help, rather they want to make money by sinking us and sinking the euro.
That is because in this Europe, where solidarity, cohesion and Community method have become empty words, this supposed aid is only to pay the banks that pushed us into the vortex of debt currently sucking us under, all at public expense, with the neoliberal measures of the Euro Plus Pact, with no investment to relaunch growth and employment, no Eurobonds, no financial transactions tax and no measures for dealing with the macro-economic imbalances that are destroying the euro.
Madam President, President of the Commission, what the Union needs now is coordination of economic and social policies with the aim of stimulating employment and getting out of the crisis.
The crisis in Japan has shown us just how 'safe' nuclear power can be.
It is very important for consolidation efforts to supplement structural reforms, particularly in implementing priorities in the European Union set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
A particularly important role should also be played by the Commission, which should monitor Member States' actions very responsibly and follow the implementation of specific measures in accordance with national stability and convergence programmes.
However at the same time, I said, very clearly in fact, that this might not be enough.
Indeed, the real test will be to see, after this, what governments, and also our institutions, will be able to deliver in terms of substance.
Unfortunately it was not possible to reach a consensus for this higher level of ambition.
Practically everything you have said, the Commission has already proposed.
Not by you, but obtaining the Member States' approval is essential, Mr Verhofstadt.
On the specific matter of unanimity or majority rule for the permanent stability mechanism, I myself suggested the latter; I insisted, in the presence of the President of the European Council and certain Heads of State or Government, that they should accept a qualified majority rule.
However, it was rejected.
The Commission has made ambitious proposals, for instance in relation to stress tests; it is the European Commission and the European Central Bank who have proposed credible and transparent tests for the European Bank.
This was rejected by some of our Member States.
I myself suggested here - and I can tell you that I will do the same for the financial perspective - that we could now at least have project bonds for financing investments at draft European budget level.
That is all on the issue of ambition at European level. (Applause) Even regarding the social issue, which I now wish to talk to you about, the Commission went to great lengths to ensure that the 2020 Strategy places more emphasis on social aspects, as well as on education.
Let us now try, within the framework of the 2020 Strategy - where it was nonetheless possible to reach a certain consensus on the inclusion, for instance, of the fight against poverty and social exclusion - to develop this policy, and also to encourage investment, particularly in education and innovation.
The Commission suggested, some time ago - two years ago I think - that emergency food aid be provided for some Europeans, because there are now people in Europe, too, who do not have enough to eat.
Recently, I, together with Joseph Daul, Chair of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), visited the food bank here in the Bas-Rhin.
Well, did you know that two governments took the Commission to the Court of Justice because the Commission had put in place a mechanism for helping the poorest in Europe?
The Commission is in favour of a Europe that is more ambitious with regard to governance; it is in favour of fair growth and of more social justice at European level.
However, at the same time, we need to have Parliament and the Member States on board.
Consequently, it is in that spirit of solidarity and responsibility that we can find common answers that will also enable us, I hope, to avoid a problem that some of you have alluded to and which concerns me, namely the problem of a certain division in Europe, in particular a division between North and South, between centre and periphery.
The question that we are now discussing is whether, at European level, we can - or we should - have a financial transaction tax or not.
What I said at the last European Council was that the Commission is now making impact assessments of different options for the financial sector and will soon come forward with proposals.
It was very important that the Commission made that announcement to the European Council because at least in the conclusions of the European Council there is a commitment to look at the proposals that the Commission will put forward for financial taxation.
There is some opposition in some quarters in the Council, but the Commission has put forward the proposal and we will fight for it because we believe the CCCTB is important for the completion of the single market.
If one day you cease being Chair of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and you have other duties, I am sure that you will carry out those new duties completely independently and that you will not interfere in your group's internal matters.
Despite this, we the European institutions also need to respect national democracy and the decisions of national parliaments, and we now hope that Portugal will find the best way out of this.
I believe that it is in this spirit of active solidarity and responsibility that we can tackle the crisis.
I do not think that is my role, but what I try to do, at least, wherever possible - and the President of the Commission can testify to this - is to act in such a way that in most cases, we end up with a convergence between the Commission proposals and the outcome of the European Council.
My role, then, is to seek a consensus, but one that is also based as far as possible on the Community, and I think that in some crucial areas, I have succeeded in doing that.
We have succeeded in reaching a compromise between ambitious objectives, so that economies remain competitive and public finances remain sustainable, and implementation at national level, because in most cases, the decisions we must take are national ones.
There are Community competences, European competences, and in the conclusions of the European Council, we tried to promote them as much as possible.
I do not think that the Commission has ever had such an important role in nuclear security as it has since the European Council of a few days ago.
Well, the Council will work with the European Parliament to improve economic governance and, as in other cases, I am certain that compromises will be found.
Even with the best instruments that we can come up with - the facility, the stability mechanism, changing the Treaty, economic governance, the pact - we will not solve the problems of the countries that are struggling, we will not solve the problems of the banks that are still under pressure.
However, what we need to ensure and will ensure, and we have already taken the necessary measures, is that this crisis does not happen again in the future.
If we had not done that, we would have had much more effective instruments and we could have prevented many crises.
However, without Europe, without European leadership, there would have been a bloodbath in Libya.
And without Europe, nothing would have been done at global level, at United Nations level.
Written Statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (NL) The EU has made a quantum leap forward in recent weeks in relation to economic integration.
The Euro Plus Pact puts us on track for ramped-up cooperation that still has respect for the traditions of social consultation as they exist in the Member States.
The last European Council meeting, which took place on 24 and 25 March, focused on the major economic and diplomatic challenges that the European Union is currently facing: the issues of Libya and Japan.
It is therefore important to adopt the necessary economic and financial measures for dealing with the crisis, for preventing cases of indebtedness like in Greece, Ireland and Portugal being repeated, and for strengthening economic governance within the EU and ensuring job creation.
in writing. - (RO) The Euro Plus Pact and European Stability Mechanism will provide Member States with the financial assistance they need in return for closer coordination of their economic policies.
Furthermore, the European Stability Mechanism, thanks to its intervention facility of EUR 500 billion, operates like a European Monetary Fund, authorised to borrow money and purchase bonds directly from states, while countering financial speculation at the same time.
However, certain proposals in the Pact are unworkable.
in writing. - Much has been said in this plenary session on the effect of the bailout package on the Republic of Ireland.
in writing. - (HU) It is important that in a difficult, critical period in the life of the whole of Europe we appraise the objectives ahead of us and the positive changes made towards them together.
The current Hungarian Presidency has scored a striking success for the second time in the areas of economic governance, the stability mechanism and the European Semester.
In the series of talks that took place in the context of its last meeting at the end of March, the European Council managed to agree on the limited amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as well, the purpose of which was to enhance the stability of the euro area and the euro.
in writing. - (LV) I take considerable pleasure from the fact that 23 EU Member States have been able to agree on a package of measures for safeguarding financial stability and promoting growth - the Euro Plus Pact.
Also of importance is the agreement that has been reached on structural reform and fiscal consolidation and the final resolution on the amendments to the Treaty of Lisbon for the establishment of the European Stability Mechanism.
All countries must implement fiscal consolidation measures and measures aimed at preventing macroeconomic disequilibrium.
The participation of 23 European countries in this pact leads us to hope that these measures will encourage economic growth.
This pact fits splendidly with the work of Parliament and the Commission on improvements to the single market and the three reports that we are approving in Parliament this week.
Member State governments must not seize the pretext of the electoral cycle in order to put off taking important but unpopular decisions.
The European Council that took place on 24-25 March made a number of decisions which I believe to be important and which could not be put off any longer.
I especially want to recognise those Member States who are not members of the euro area but who have still joined this pact.
in writing. - (PL) The recent European Council summit marks the opening of a new phase - one of greater economic coordination and convergence in the EU and the euro area.
The Euro Plus Pact adopted by the Heads of State or Government, with the involvement of the countries in the euro area and Bulgaria, Denmark, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and Romania, provides us with a real chance of achieving the objectives set out in it, or in other words supporting competitiveness, employment, the stability of public finances and financial stability in general.
When it comes to economic coordination, the EU can no longer afford a failure such as that suffered by the Stability and Growth Pact.
Consent was also given at the summit to the inclusion in the Treaty of a provision establishing a permanent European Stability Mechanism, mobilised with the joint agreement of the Member States in the event that it is necessary to ensure the stability of the euro area as a whole.
This is a very important decision, particularly in light of the recent problems faced by countries in the euro area.
in writing. - (PL) We will only be able to combat the crisis effectively if we work together, avoiding any division into countries which belong to the euro area and those which remain outside it.
