Indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries (debate) The next item is the report by Cristiana Muscardini, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries - C7-0048/2010 -.
In 2005, the European Commission proposed a regulation aimed at putting the European Union on an equal footing with these countries, requiring a certain number of manufactured goods imported into the European Union to include a denomination of origin.
The regulation makes up for a situation of inferiority for EU citizens and also proposes anew the legitimate right to reciprocity.
European producers - who rightly have to comply with many obligations imposed by the European Union in order to guarantee product quality and safeguard consumers and who, in order to export, are obliged to identify their products with a mark of origin - are suffering from unfair competition from producers in third countries who can export their goods to Europe, concealing the provenance.
The regulation has been approved by the European Parliament's Committee on International Trade with a large majority of 19 votes in favour and 3 votes against.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, tonight we are discussing a legislative proposal which the Commission tabled in 2005 concerning the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries - the 'made in' regulation.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Muscardini, for her dedication in support of our proposal and for her hard work.
The cost will notably depend on the production processes and technical marking rules.
I think that a much better description than 'Made in China', which it would probably receive under this regulation, would be 'Made in the world', to quote Pascal Lamy, former Commissioner and current Director-General of the WTO.
Origin marking is an important step towards transparency and information, which we must constantly improve in favour of European citizens.
It only applies to a limited number of products, to the final product destined for the consumer, and - as far as my group is concerned - it is a 5-year pilot project because we shall support the amendment with the sunset clause.
In addition, we also introduced in committee - through an amendment of my own - a provision that aims to avoid any excessive bureaucratic burden that would harm businesses.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the good work she has done.
This place has a habit of taking legislation too far, and I fear that this is what is happening in this particular case. (DE) Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Muscardini for her hard work, particularly in view of the controversial issues, some of which have already been discussed.
I am in favour of more truth in product labelling and therefore oppose this proposal from the Commission. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Muscardini, and all the shadow rapporteurs with whom I have worked on this issue, which is extremely important for us.
No, I am sorry, there is a problem, I am going to record it in the Minutes. (The speaker stops) (FR) Madam President, the miracle of free trade and of free and undistorted competition means that a consumer who purchases a knife labelled Laguiole in the Aveyron, its region of origin, has a 90% chance of acquiring a poor quality blade made in China or in Pakistan, one of many examples.
This is why I believe it is time the European Union adopted a norm which will protect European consumers regardless of the particular interests of large distribution chains or certain interest groups, and require suppliers to mark goods imported from third countries with the necessary information about their origin.
I firmly believe that introducing an effective system for marking the origin of products from third countries will be extremely beneficial both to our European consumers and to compliant manufacturers. (CS) Czech glassmakers, textile manufacturers and shoe manufacturers have, for a long time, been coming to me and calling for transparency on the origin of products.
However, there are plenty of countries where such principles do not exist, where working conditions are poor, and where no guarantees exist for workers.
To those businesses that have moved their production abroad for their own convenience and in order to avoid bureaucracy, and which are now complaining, I would say: you have only yourselves to blame! (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe could not escape from this duty: this is the way we can and have had to react.
There are six of these, so we are able to give the floor to each one. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens have realised the global scale of the ongoing economic crisis and we believe that they are aware of the importance of adopting common rules to avoid causing distortions in the market and dangerous reductions in trade.
So, tomorrow, we will support the report on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, urging the European Council to do its part to conclude this legislative journey, which has now lasted for six long years, as well as possible. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five years after the proposal for a regulation, tomorrow, we finally come to the vote on compulsory origin marking for some products imported from third countries.
This is because it could have the brand of a Swedish business even though it has been produced by a small manufacturing business, perhaps located 10 kilometres from my house.
Therefore, I welcome the mark of origin if it gives transparency and the chance of clarity and knowledge for consumers and, finally, a minimal response to the great many businesses that have had the courage not to relocate and have been crushed by unfair competition. (PT) Mr President, we have advocated and evaluated the possibility that origin marking should exist, because we see it in every sense as an instrument for defending jobs in European industry, not least in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); as an instrument against social and environmental dumping.
For our part, we will continue to fight the protectionism from which these interest groups have benefited against the common good and to the detriment of thousands of SMEs in Europe, and of the workers, their rights and their salaries.
We have seen that in Copenhagen, and we see it in the United Nations, but thankfully tonight, we will begin to fight back and establish a level playing field for our consumers and for our manufacturers.
These rules are very stable indeed and they are well known, because it is on the basis of these rules of origin that customs duties are paid when products come into the European market.
The second remark I would like to make is about an amendment introduced by Mrs Muscardini, which, in fact, proposes that this 'made in' regulation would be a kind of pilot project that would be evaluated after a four-year period and perhaps changed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 21 October 2010.
