Economic governance and Article 9 of the Treaty of Lisbon (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question by Stephen Hughes, Pervenche Berès and Udo Bullmann, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, to the Council: Economic governance and Article 9 of the Treaty of Lisbon - B7-0660/2010), and the oral question by Stephen Hughes, Pervenche Berès and Udo Bullmann, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, to the Commission: Economic governance and Article 9 of the Treaty of Lisbon - B7-0661/2010) author. - (FR) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, both your institutions have worked very hard in the field of economic governance and, today, the European Parliament is debating the six Commission proposals on economic governance.
Today, we are under the regime of the Treaty of Lisbon, Article 9 of which provides that, in the definition and implementation of its policies and actions, the Union shall, and I quote, 'take into account requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, and a high level of education, training and protection of human health'.
I am aware, of course, of the importance this Parliament attaches to economic governance and to its links with social issues in the broader sense, as set forth in Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The obligation deriving from Article 9 must be complied with when defining and implementing all the policies and actions of the Union, including, therefore, all the work on future economic governance.
I should first like to point out that, during the Belgian Presidency, the importance of the implementation of Article 9 and hence of the cross-section clause has been referred to so often.
I should therefore like to recall the conclusions adopted by the Council on 6 December on the social dimension in the context of an integrated Europe 2020 Strategy.
It calls on the Council to produce a report on the way in which Article 9 is implemented in work and in European policies through the open coordination method.
It also calls on the Commission to seek out means of implementing social mainstreaming and thus, also, Article 9 in the context of its flagship initiative of a European platform against poverty, which should be published in the next few days.
The Council's willingness to promote Article 9 in practice is also evident in the European Semester, which has to reflect, in an integrated approach, a balanced position between the Europe 2020 Strategy and the Stability and Growth Pact.
The principles contained in Article 9 must therefore apply across all these documents and legislative measures so that they become an integrated whole.
In the conclusions adopted on 21 October, the Council defined the place of the European Employment Strategy in economic governance.
In the second phase, at the 6 December European Council, the Council adopted a new instrument for the multilateral monitoring of employment and social policies, the Joint Assessment Framework, which will make for better monitoring of the employment and social integration policies of the Member States and, therefore, ensure that better account is taken of these dimensions at European level.
I would also note that the Council referred to Article 9 in other conclusions: the conclusions on pensions and the conclusions of the Council on social services of general interest.
The number of people unemployed in the European Union is currently 23 million.
This situation is specific to Ireland, but if it is a template for other Member States in trouble, then Article 9 is dead in the water.
The EU 2020 Strategy indeed has good intentions, in particular to reduce poverty, but it is a soft, voluntary option and governments will only follow it if they really want to and have the time.
That is not good enough, because Article 9 is intended to promote the objectives of the European Union as outlined in Article 3 of the Treaty.
One of the other aspects of this agreement which I mentioned this morning is the insistence by the Commission that the minimum wage in Ireland be reduced by EUR 2 000 a year.
No more plámás.
We want clear answers on how the Commission is going to apply Article 9 of the Treaty in relation to economic governance and, in particular, on the arrangements it is making with Member States with regard to the crisis exit strategy. (IT) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, there is no doubt that remaining alert to the matter of economic governance is an absolutely right and proper aim of the European Parliament.
Article 9 of the Treaty of Lisbon refers to 'a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection'.
We recognise that there is a clear tension between the austerity being undertaken in so many countries and its impact upon social inclusion and the level of poverty.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood from my first speech, the Council is well aware of the obligations pursuant to Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union regarding the need to take account of the overall aspect of the requirements associated with promoting a high level of employment, ensuring adequate social protection and combating social exclusion, as well as achieving a high level of education, training and protection of human health.
Given the universality of this obligation, it is also required in the field of economic governance.
It also applies to the six legislative proposals that came out of the work of the task force, which were tabled by the Commission on 29 September.
Nevertheless, compliance with the obligations in Article 9 does not require a formal social impact assessment procedure.
