There are still too few women in politics, and here in the European Parliament, our female Members account for only 35% of all Members.
Of those employed in the European Parliament, 59% are women and, at the same time, over 50% of these women deal with matters of substance.
Let us also remember that the past winners of the Sakharov Prize include magnificent women such as Aung San Suu Kyi, Leyla Zana and the Ladies in White.
Ladies and gentlemen, on 3 November 1793, 218 years ago, Olympia de Gouges was beheaded in Europe because she drafted a declaration of the rights of women and female citizens.
One hundred years later, in 1906, women were given the right to vote.
I would like to stress something which is very important for me personally, namely, that 8 March is a holiday for women.
Yet this holiday primarily serves to remind us that we should remember the most important issue in Europe today, namely, equality of rights for women and men, during the remaining 364 days of the year.
The principles we wish to reinforce on 8 March should also apply on the other 364 days in the year.
It is not enough merely to commemorate 8 March; we need to think about this matter on all the other days in the year as well.
The active role that European women now have in the economic and political life of the European Union is the result of their determined commitment.
In September 2010, the Commission adopted a strategy which set out five priority areas for action for the period 2010-2015: equality in the labour market, equal economic independence for men and women, equal pay, equality in senior positions and promoting equality beyond the EU.
This quotation shows that our concepts of what women and men are form the basis for all of our choices in life - choices dependent on our gender, not our interests, skills, commitment, etc.
Gender stereotypes place men and women in different pigeonholes, and a hundred years of fighting for equality has not succeeded in shattering these gender stereotypes.
If I compare the opportunities that I have in terms of different life choices with those of my mother and my grandmother, I can see how much progress has been made, but there still remains a great deal to do.
Therefore, the fight will continue every day of the year, not just on 8 March. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are celebrating the one hundredth International Women's Day, commemorating the demonstration of worker women who protested for equal wages in New York in the mid-19th century.
The goal they set more than 150 years ago in 1857, to ensure equal pay for equal work, is still relevant today.
Mrs Reding, on this, the occasion of the 100th International Women's Day, we call on you: make a genuine commitment to do all you can to promote a real quota for women in management positions - as is already the position in Norway, Spain and France.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many goals have been reached but some battles have not yet even begun.
It was in 1893 that New Zealand gave women the vote.
