Mr President, the announcement, in any country, of the first elections to be held for 20 years usually fills us with optimism.
The Burmese regime is a problem we have struggled with for years.
In our resolution, we condemn numerous violations of human rights and civil liberties, which are everyday events in Burma.
Mr President, since 1962 Burma has been living under the yoke of a military junta which is one of the most repressive regimes in the world.
There are 2 000 registered political prisoners, including over 230 Buddhist monks who took part in peaceful demonstrations in September 2008 and who have been in prison ever since.
At least 14 journalists are currently in prison and I should like here to highlight the case of Hla Hla Win, a young 25-year-old journalist, who has been sentenced to 27 years in prison for illegally importing a motorcycle because she dared to visit a Buddhist monastery.
Whilst there we also met up with some of the opposition groups, among them the National League for Democracy whose leader, as also already mentioned, is the Sakharov Prize-winner Aung San Suu Kyi.
The serious problem is that there are still more than 2 100 political prisoners in Burma.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the human rights situation in Burma has deteriorated dramatically: political repression accompanied by military and sexual violence, children systematically being recruited as soldiers, 2 000 political prisoners.
What is particularly concerning is the position of the Rohingyas, more than 200 000 of whom live in refugee camps.
We are flying to Dhaka tomorrow, in order to gather first-hand information about the situation in Cox's Bazar and the Bandarban region.
The European Union must persist in its denouncement of the Burmese government's behaviour, until such time as signs of progress in the direction of democracy finally begin to appear.
The leader of the Burmese opposition, Nobel Peace Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, has been under house arrest for many years, and has also received a three-year prison sentence.
It is our obligation, here in the European Parliament, to call for the rights of religious minorities, including Christians throughout the world. (FI) Mr President, in terms of human rights, Burma is one of the world's most fragile countries.
Corruption brings poverty and impunity. (PL) Mr President, if Burma has decided to hold parliamentary elections for the first time in 20 years, this may mean a step forward in the process of democratisation, if the elections, planned for this autumn, are honest.
In other words, they must firstly be general, with every adult citizen being able to vote or stand for election, including Nobel Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and 2 000 other opposition activists who are currently in prison for political reasons.
If these demands are ignored by the government in Burma, I think it will be imperative to continue restrictive measures against the regime in accordance with item 16 of the resolution. (HU) The military junta has promised free, democratic elections for 2010.
What we should be doing, in politically realistic terms, is marshalling all of the Union's powers to exert influence on China, India and Russia to add their political weight to the pressure on the Burmese government to improve the human rights situation in this country.
The military government has not responded to international calls to stop those human rights infringements and it has not released political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
It is essential that political prisoners, including the head of the opposition and leader of the National League for Democracy, Aung San Suu Kyi, who was honoured with the Sakharov Prize by the European Parliament in 1990 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991, be released immediately so as to contribute to the promotion of free, just and transparent elections in 2010.
For this reason, I urge the European Union to adopt a coherent strategy and develop relations with neighbouring countries, particularly with China and India, with a view to promoting transparent elections in Burma.
