Questions on any subject on behalf of political groups.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, the Centre for European Studies, the problems suffered by Greece, the Europe 2020 strategy and the search for answers to the financial and economic crisis all clearly indicate to us that in taking the necessary measures, we will soon reach the limits of what is possible under the existing treaties.
The role of the Commission is, of course, to be the guardian of the treaties, in accordance with Article 117 of the Lisbon Treaty, to protect European law and to be firm about the respect of European law, because the day the European Union is no longer a Community of law, it will no longer be a real Union.
There was a first debate with the Finance Ministers and, in fact, the Commission will present a communication next month on reinforced economic governance.
We believe it is possible, with the current treaties, to do much more in terms of surveillance of the euro area and of the economic and monetary union if there is indeed a willingness on the part of the Member States to cooperate and respect the treaties.
President of the Commission. - It is true, Mr Schulz, that the Lisbon Treaty does not allow the so-called 'bail out' of Member States.
The solution found so far - which has not yet been activated because it has not yet been requested - is, according to the Commission, fully in line with the treaty.
I know a debate is going on in some circles in Germany - and indeed in some other Member States, but in particular in Germany - and I want to say that it is simply wrong that what we have been contemplating is some kind of bail out.
President of the Commission. - I have been speaking about this matter with those leaders and others for many weeks, so I can tell you very frankly, Mr Schulz, that unfortunately, the only solution possible was this one.
The pricing for loans by the IMF was considered an appropriate benchmark for setting euro area Member States' bilateral loan conditions, albeit with some adjustments which were agreed on 11 April.
Interest rates on Greek loans have risen again to 7.6%, in other words 450 base points above the German rate.
Firstly, Mr Verhofstadt, and also in response to Mr Schulz, let us be absolutely clear and honest with ourselves: if there are questions that you want to ask Mrs Merkel, you must ask them.
I am not here to reply on behalf of Mrs Merkel.
Mr President, to give a concrete answer on that point, I can tell you that our position tends to go against the idea of creating a new institution within the context of economic and monetary union.
From my own perspective at least, I am not sure that this is a good idea, but I can tell you - personally speaking, since the College has not yet decided - that the idea of a facility for ensuring financial stability in the euro area seems a good one to me.
I would like to ask another question about ACTA.
I might add that is why the Commission, and more specifically, Mr De Gucht, obtained permission, from our partners in these negotiations, to make public all the texts from the negotiations.
New powers exist for Parliament in the area of international negotiations, and the Commission is in favour of Parliament playing a greater role in such negotiations.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - In March, the European Commission announced it would conduct another review of the Working Time Directive, after the previous review fell.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I do not yet have a draft legislative proposal in my pocket.
President of the Commission. - Just today, in the work programme, we have presented our action in the financial sector.
But I think there are some specific things, to be more concrete, that we can do.
I think that should be a matter for the G20.
We do not want to undermine what is a very important sector in our economies - the financial sector - but we believe that some more measures are important to restore confidence in the financial sector.
Mr Barroso, I have another brief question.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Because the financial crisis was a credit crisis and a banking crisis that took place and emanated from the large commercial banks - the Royal Bank of Scotland, IKB, Fortis and the like - do you accept that the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, as well as being highly damaging to the UK, is a misdirected and misguided regulatory initiative on the part of the Commission that aims entirely at the wrong target?
I think it is a very good initiative that aims precisely to restore some confidence in what is a very important sector of our financial markets.
There is now a problem of credibility in the financial sector and it had its origin in, let us say, irresponsible behaviour of some major players in that sector, not only in Britain, as you said, but in other countries in Europe, apart from the situation that originated in the United States.
President of the Commission. - I am sorry but I do not agree the problem is only with the big banks.
In fact, the problem created in the United States was not created by big banks only.
In fact, some of the big traditional commercial banks were not responsible for the crisis.
The Council, for all its faults, at least contains representatives of Member States.
However, influential voices among the political groups in this Parliament are arguing for the Commission to play a much more decisive part in the service.
Furthermore, of course, the High Representative is an ex officio Vice-President of the Commission.
I consider it possible, in full respect of the treaty, to achieve exactly what the treaty aims to achieve.
To produce a shoe in our region, in southern Italy, costs EUR 13.
The cost of the finished product from China is EUR 5.50.
Whenever I meet entrepreneurs, they ask me: 'What is stopping you from imposing customs duties, from imposing taxes?' For in China, there is low-cost production because children from the age of 12 work 10 hours a day with no social security benefits, no insurance and no health care rights.
Mr Barroso, when I meet entrepreneurs, what do I tell them that Europe is doing to combat an irreversible crisis in which so many businesses are failing, so many jobs are going up in smoke and entire regions of Europe, including the poorest regions, the south of Italy, are going through a serious and irreversible crisis?
I think the solution is certainly not to close our borders, because the European Union is by far the biggest exporter in the world.
But I really think it is not a solution - unless there is dumping - to act via anti-dumping instruments, nor is it a solution to close our borders to other very important trade partners of Europe.
We are also talking about the ambitious Europe 2020 strategy being prepared by the Commission and we are talking about combating unemployment and poverty.
President of the Commission. - The issue of employment, as you know, is dependent on the overall economic situation.
We have some proposals in our EU 2020 strategy for new skills, for new jobs, for programmes for youth, but the basic thing is to restore the conditions for growth, including confidence in our economy.
In 2009, 2.7 million people in the euro area lost their jobs.
I already talked about decent work in my political guidelines, just as I talked about the existence of a genuine industrial policy for Europe - not the old industrial policy, but a policy aimed at providing Europe with sustainable industry, a more modern, sustainability-focused policy.
This aspect appears in the 2020 strategy, precisely because we consider that the fight against unemployment is now the main priority.
I believe that the development of this strategy will enable us to achieve significant results in the fight against unemployment. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, over the last few years, unemployment has increased throughout all the countries of Europe - albeit in different forms from one country to the next - and is destined to increase further.
Economists all agree that it will take at least two years for the tentative signs of recovery that are evident here and there to become the norm and that, in any case, for at least 10 years, the recovery will be so limited that it will not create any additional employment.
We are also starting to see more consistent signs of stabilisation in some Member States.
We have more than 20% of young people unemployed in Europe.
This plan shows three pathways by which the European Union could cut its CO2 emissions by 80 per cent by 2050, in line with our Kyoto aspirations.
This objective was also fully translated in the Commission's working programme for 2010 and beyond.
We also have to assess whether our financial efforts and the public-private partnerships that are being experienced here and there are up to this very important societal challenge.
In this perspective, I have asked Vice-President Kroes and Commissioner Vassiliou to set up a comité des sages.
I had a great respect for President Kaczyński.
It is necessary to look for a global solution to help the industry out of the crisis and, in fact, we have a precedent, which was the crisis after 11 September.
We discussed this in the college meeting today. (EL) Mr President, Mr Barroso, according to official statistics, unemployment in the European Union fluctuated between 8 and 9% between 2000 and 2006, to the glory of the Lisbon Strategy, which talked of full employment.
The Commission states in a recent report that unemployment will reach and go beyond 10% in 2010, a 'social volcano', to use the language of the moment.
The problem is to see how we can manage a transition, how we can keep stimulus in the economies that have the margin to do it, and, at the same time, respect the necessary balances of macro-economic stability.
President of the Commission. - This volcano problem is certainly beyond the control of the European institutions or the national governments.
Regarding the aviation industry, we have already said that we are looking at what we can do, also based on the precedent that was already there after 11 September.
The other 99% is in the hands of the Member States.
So I think it is unfair to look to the European Union to try to solve all the problems, where we do not have the means to do so. (PL) Mr Barroso, in the 2020 strategy, you have presented very ambitious rates of increase of employment, from 63% to 76%, and a reduction in unemployment among early school leavers to 10%, but also an emphasis on education, which is the key to development, so that in the future, 40% of European citizens will have completed tertiary education.
Indeed, in the Social Fund, we already have some actions for young people for apprenticeships and for traineeships.
This is our intention.
This is just one of many examples of jobs being lost in Europe.
You have just referred to the guidelines and the Europe 2020 position paper.
President of the Commission. - The employment guidelines are very much dependent on the overall economic growth, but we intend to reinforce the employment aspect in our EU 2020 strategy.
When it comes to the automobile industry, of course we know that there was over-capacity not only in Europe but in the world, and we are following this very closely with the industry itself, including with the trade unions in the sector. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, unemployment and exclusion among young people are a big problem.
As you have said, 20% of young people are unemployed.
In fact, it has been possible to keep people in work for longer.
This is important because, for Europe to remain competitive, we need to raise the employment rate in Europe. (PL) Mr Barroso, you said in your speech, today, that a priority for the Commission in its employment policy is, among other things, to help graduates and young people be effective in entering the labour market.
We know the unemployment rate in this social group is currently very high.
President of the Commission. - Youth unemployment is the most dramatic problem now in terms of unemployment in Europe because it is more than 20%.
I have just highlighted the situation in two of the largest Member States in Europe because, by 2020, 16 million more jobs will require high qualifications and, for example, the European Social Fund will spend EUR 13.5 million, between 2007 and 2013, in promoting adaptability measures for workers and enterprises.
So there are some measures that we can take at European level, Community level, to complement the action of our Member States regarding the problem of youth unemployment. (DE) Mr Barroso, I have to disagree with you.
We have put at the centre of the EU 2020 our climate and energy targets, from 20% reduction of greenhouse gases, to 20% renewables and to 20% gains in energy efficiency.
So it is certainly the central piece of our economic strategy for the future and, in fact, we have put that as one of the core objectives.
Growth, not only smart growth and equitable growth, but also sustainable growth. (FI) Mr President, a lot has been said here about young people, which is only right.
We believe that the target rate for employment - and we have also discussed this with the Member States in the European Council - should be aimed at promoting the employment both of men and of women.
