The European Council stated this clearly on 25 March.
The assessing authorities will therefore share the results of the stress tests with both the general public and the Commission.
This year, for example, we will begin the examination of the Energy Roadmap 2050.
I am certain that we can also contribute to this with today's debate.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, the terrible earthquake of 11 March, the subsequent tsunami, the accident in the nuclear power plant, which caused damage to the various blocks, and the fact that there is still no end in sight to the process of repairing the damage and overcoming the risks, as the nuclear power station is still out of control, even with the use of the latest technology: all of these events are causing us concern with regard to safety and the energy sector in the European Union and elsewhere.
For this reason, on 11 March, we invited a high-level group consisting of ministers and representatives of the national governments, the nuclear power plant construction companies and the energy sector to attend a meeting on 15 March.
In the Council of Energy Ministers, we made preparations on 21 March for the European Council, which finally, on 25 March, called on the Commission and the national nuclear safety authorities to carry out a special stress test and a comprehensive safety investigation with the aim of ensuring the highest possible safety standards.
By the end of the year, we expect comprehensive testing to have taken place in order to ensure the highest possible safety standards in the 143 nuclear power plants in the European Union.
Our aim in all of this is to ensure that the highest safety standards and the test criteria for the safety investigation are applied in the countries which are the immediate neighbours of the European Union.
We know that the responsibility for the energy mix and, therefore, also for energy technology, nuclear power plants and other technologies lies with the Member States.
Over the last few days, it has become clear that the Member States want to retain these powers.
However, the safety test, which everyone must take part in, seems to me to be the common denominator for all the Member States because of the high standards it imposes, regardless of whether they do or do not have nuclear power.
Our plan was to carry out an evaluation in 2014 of the Nuclear Safety Directive, which was adopted by Parliament and by the Council and is to be transposed into national law.
These will also contribute to the joint measures for ensuring the highest possible levels of safety.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Commissioner Oettinger for setting to work on the issue of nuclear safety immediately after the disaster in Japan.
We need a European stress test for all nuclear installations and, as you said, the criteria must be harmonised.
Nuclear power is a source of energy which we cannot give up just like that, because it provides a large part of our energy and contributes to our reduction in CO2 emissions.
However, we have to rethink our future and renewable energy and also ambitiously develop energy efficiency further.
What we need is nothing less than a paradigm shift in our energy policy, but that is not what this resolution should be about.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the tragic events in Japan have not only revealed mistakes and flaws in Japanese reactors.
The Fukushima events have also revealed shortcomings in the international system of safeguards in nuclear power plants.
It is therefore essential that the European Union should comprehensively reassess its approach to nuclear safety.
There is a responsibility for the Commission, but there is also a responsibility for the Council to step forward and take its responsibility.
I believe that it is not a good thing for the national authorities and the supervisory bodies to be given responsibility for defining the criteria for the test and evaluating the results.
However, you still have time to change your plans and provide us with a guarantee that independent experts will be given access to the plants.
You can guarantee that everything will be tested and that we will not just see reports on paper from a system which I have rightly described as an old boys' network, because those people involved have all known each other and been friends for decades and have always accepted the highest levels of risk.
If the stress tests are genuinely to bring about a change of direction in Europe, we see them as the basis for an exit timetable which will start now and, if everything goes well in Europe, could come to an end in around 2025.
I would like to ask you to do one specific thing, Mr Oettinger.
This would increase public confidence in your policies. (Applause) on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, may I thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for their statements.
First of all, let us remember that there is a world of difference between 50-year-old reactors in Japan and the new designs under preparation in Europe - a world of difference.
Let us also remember that there is a world of difference between the seismic risks faced in Japan and those in Western Europe.
I agree we want to reinforce our safety culture, but let us not act in haste.
Mr President, there have recently been demonstrations in Germany in which 250 000 people called for an immediate exit from nuclear power and a changeover to 100% renewable energy.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, I agree with what has been said until now and also that we have to think about the moratorium tomorrow, as Mr Chichester suggested.
I urge all of you to think about this new crime against society that we are going to face in the 21st century. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need energy to eat, travel, study, cure diseases, and for many other things.
Ladies and gentlemen, the lesson we should indeed learn from this accident is the urgent need to strengthen security measures.
The problem in Japan was the accumulation of events: flooding, loss of off-site power and disruption of communications.
Mr Oettinger, you are in the process of drawing up the Energy Roadmap 2050.
Yet again, we will hit at the competitiveness of our energy system and, in so doing, at our economy and industry.
Therefore, if today we are going to increase the standards we require from nuclear energy, we must have a guarantee that the electricity produced by reactors which are outside our borders will be subject to the same rigorous criteria. (CS) Mr President, there are several possible conclusions to be drawn from the disaster in Japan.
The TEPCO company has behaved irresponsibly.
An uncivilised atmosphere has long prevailed in the European Parliament, and we need a Commission of courageous men and women who are not afraid of new solutions, and who have a pioneering spirit, not buck-passers who, after the manner of a certain kind of beetle, roll a ball of petty personal interests along in front of themselves, even in relation to European positions. (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the joint resolution.
Paragraphs 21 and 22 show the direction in which we want to go.
These stress tests must be carried out in the most coordinated way possible at Union level, and potentially beyond in our immediate neighbourhood, by independent entities working in accordance with the strictest standards and with the greatest transparency.
Furthermore, I do not believe that most European citizens today accept the idea of paying the price for a nuclear accident in Europe.
We must therefore organise the phasing-out of nuclear power while bearing in mind our economic needs, our needs in terms of employment, our industrial capacities and the requirement not to increase our greenhouse gas emissions.
I think that that is very optimistic; it will probably be a little longer.
However, this is a great project which could mobilise Europeans, could restore confidence in ourselves and also in the institutions, because beyond Fukushima, Mr President, this is still an act of defiance towards the public authorities and the supervisory bodies.
The Japanese experience is an opportunity for the responsible appraisal of existing safety standards, without unnecessary political grandstanding. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that there are very different opinions both in the Member States and here in the political groups on the question of whether or not we should have nuclear power.
We have started a debate on this subject and I think that the resolution offers us an important opportunity to focus today and tomorrow on one specific question, which is whether we can jointly raise our safety standards and whether we will be able to put in place increased European powers of whatever kind or greater European cooperation.
Therefore, I would like to ask if it is not high time that we took the opportunity presented by this debate today and tomorrow to put aside the question of whether or not we should get out of nuclear power, or of whether we are enthusiastic or unenthusiastic supporters of nuclear power, and to focus on this instead.
If we could all agree not to put the amendments that we have tabled to the vote tomorrow - I would just like to see them presented - and to concentrate on voting with a large majority or perhaps even unanimously for more safety and greater European powers, we would be doing more for the reputation of the European Parliament and for the process of drawing consequences from the events in Japan than if we continue with the disputes that we are always having.
I would like to ask you to think about whether we should try this. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, Mr Reul, you know that I have always supported higher levels of safety in the nuclear industry.
A large majority of this House was against the highest safety standards.
The subject of a new feeling of mutual trust presents us with another major problem.
If there is any doubt, the decisions on nuclear safety and stress tests will be made by the Council and by Euratom.
If you are now saying that we will take action against the old Euratom Treaty in future and ensure that there is consultation and transparency in all the areas relating to safety, we will perhaps be able to come to a better understanding. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Harms, I did not fully understand your question, because it was not a question.
The resolution covers a number of areas, many more than those we have already adopted and many more than I was prepared to go along with.
If we do this tomorrow on the basis of a dispute, because we have different positions when it comes to the issue of whether or not we should exit from nuclear power, then it will probably not have a major impact.
Mr President, Mr Reul, I wanted to ask you whether your personal position has changed at all.
If you divide ten thousand years by the 400 nuclear power plants in the world, the result is 25 years.
Therefore, we can expect a reactor accident to happen every 25 years.
Mr Oettinger, the road map which you are producing in June of this year would be a wonderful opportunity to achieve this.
After the stress tests, you must also give us your idea of how we can get out of nuclear technology. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that our condolences should go to all the victims of the great disaster which has hit Japan.
That said, I think we should start from two important considerations.
The maintenance and practical application of this knowledge is essential both in connection with the operation of power plants and, for a long time afterwards, in connection with their closure.
I agree with conducting stress tests and I agree that the experience gained should be incorporated in the Nuclear Safety Directive.
I agree that we should do everything to participate in international organisations contributing the best of our knowledge.
I especially agree that we should use R&amp;D activities to dispose of the nuclear waste of the past 60 years.
There is one thing I particularly agree with: whatever decision we make with regard to energy, we should insist that the 500 million people in Europe be supplied with electricity.
We must carry out these tests using a common approach and common criteria whose methodology will have to be entrusted to the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group.
The neighbouring countries of the European Union should also undergo these tests, given the cross-border risks that exist.
However, what I do not understand is why some people have still not opened their eyes to this topic, even after Fukushima.
First of all, as the Commissioner has proposed, the stress test should be conducted in all openness, in all transparency, whilst, at the same time, steps should be taken to ensure that it covers as broad a range of plants as possible.
Yet, we must also ensure that we act on the results of this stress test.
Thirdly, it would be too absurd for words if we, in this European Union, were to opt for new nuclear plants.
There is only one way forward in Europe, and that is renewable energy, and we in this House ought to reach a consensus in favour of renewables. (PL) Mr President, on 26 April, a quarter of a century will have passed since the Chernobyl disaster, the worst nuclear accident in history.
In recalling the Chernobyl disaster, I would like to express my solidarity with the Japanese people, who are struggling with the effects of the accident at the Fukushima nuclear power station, which was itself caused by the waves of the tsunami.
Even today, contamination is to be found in food produced in the regions of Ukraine which were exposed to radioactive caesium 137 - an isotope which has a half-life of 30 years.
Greenpeace has carried out research which shows that in at least two provinces, Zhitomir and Rovno, the local population consumes contaminated milk, mushrooms, fruit, fresh-water fish and vegetables.
According to official data, there is a high level of radiation in areas at a distance of 30 km from the power station.
It is estimated, however, that the affected area may, in fact, include a total of around 50 000 km2 across many provinces in Ukraine.
There are currently 165 operational reactors in Europe, not including Russia.
The Fukushima accident has shown us that some existing nuclear power plants are not safe.
The decision about the composition of the energy mix must remain under Member States' jurisdiction, while the European Union's role must be to ensure that the highest safety standards are applied.
However, any measure taken at European or national level with regard to the energy mix and regulating nuclear energy must be based on a high level of scientific objectivity. (LV) Mr President, nuclear energy currently generates approximately one third of total energy consumption in Europe.
Naturally, also in the long term, it is precisely energy saving and an increased use of wind, solar, water and biomass that will reduce our dependence on both nuclear energy and on imported energy sources. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the news regarding Fukushima is increasingly worrying.
Stress tests should be conducted on existing nuclear plants and if the outcome raises concern we must have the courage to call for their immediate closure.
We need to introduce higher international safety standards and there should be no thought of constructing new nuclear plants.
We must urgently develop policies that aim at energy conservation and efficiency, and increased investment in research into new technologies and renewable energy sources.
Finally, we should open a debate involving citizens and local authorities. (SL) Mr President, I agree with the Members who have said that we should ensure nuclear safety at the European level.
However, ladies and gentlemen, we need to recognise in this respect that 'safety culture' is a very broad concept, which takes into account both ...
which includes both a safe nuclear technology and the ensuring of adequate financial resources, human resources, adequate safety standards and strong and independent supervisory bodies.
In my opinion, all this should also be part of these European safety standards.
This is not about us lacking trust in the existing institutions, but about ensuring, at the institutional level, the highest possible safety in the future too.
Commissioner, you have said that Member States are not interested in that, but who are these Member States?
There are several nuclear power plants in Japan, and one of them has been struck by this severe nuclear accident.
I would also ask that we do not confuse victims of a natural disaster, victims of an earthquake and a tsunami, with potential victims of a nuclear accident.
or each accident should be taken very seriously; we should not be thinking in terms of how many accidents, because we need to take into account each accident, and not only the accident, but also any other incident assessed to be less than an accident.
Indeed, this very example is telling us that we should not conclude from one accident that nuclear technology is unacceptable.
Since we are a small nuclear country, we are used to being subjected to a relatively greater number of international tests than is the case for other nuclear power plants in the larger countries. (DE) Mr President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Austria and we are all worried about Krško.
The long-term lesson involves the need to draw up a common exit scenario, because events have clearly shown that nuclear technology as it currently stands is too dangerous and that is unlikely to change in future.
However, overall, I believe that we should take to heart the fact that the famous safety standards promised us by everyone simply cannot be guaranteed.
The stress tests proposed by the Commission are necessary.
The consequences of the tests must be very clear.
Two particular cases have already been mentioned today, two simultaneous nuclear projects: one in the Kaliningrad district of the Russian Federation, which is completely surrounded by Lithuania, Poland and the Baltic Sea, and the second in Belarus, where a nuclear power station is planned to be built just 20 km away from the Lithuanian border.
When the whole world was watching the dramatic developments in Fukushima, on 15 March, the Belarus Government and the Russian state-owned energy company Rosatom signed a contract under which Rosatom will have to finish the nuclear plant in Belarus by 2018.
The Union currently has 143 nuclear reactors, with nuclear energy accounting for 30% of the energy mix.
Member States are responsible for their own energy mix, but nuclear safety is the responsibility of all of us.
The stress tests will result in a rise in standards for future nuclear reactors and, by extension, in the cost of nuclear energy.
The Union must therefore make considerable investments in energy efficiency measures and in the production and use of renewable energy sources, particularly for buildings and transport. (FI) Mr President, it is a good thing that the EU wants stress tests for its Member States and its neighbours.
Thirdly, an independent body should carry out these tests.
I have a question to put to our Commissioner, Mr Oettinger.
It is the only guarantee that there will be no further accidents. (SK) Mr President, the extensive damage to the nuclear power plant in Fukushima caused by an extraordinary natural disaster has shown that it is extremely important to look after safety in facilities of this kind.
It is therefore right and proper that the European Commission has decided to perform a safety audit of all nuclear plants on our territory without delay.
I do not doubt that the result of the findings of the safety audit of our nuclear facilities will be a serious decision obliging operators of power plants to correct any deficiencies in the facilities immediately, and not try to circumvent the safety criteria, fulfilment of which must be a precondition for the running of a nuclear plant.
Commissioner, I am sure the European public expects us to conduct an open and honest dialogue today on the future of European energy policy, including the definition of new safety limits for all power plants in Europe. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear disaster in Japan has shown us one thing.
We need to shut down nuclear power plants over thirty years old immediately and put an end to any thoughts of building new plants.
Commissioner, the legislative initiative and responsibility for our action, or the consequences of our failure to act, lie with you.
Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to look at our long-term energy policy.
However, at the same time, I would like to ask everyone to take the legal basis into consideration.
The Treaty of Lisbon is only 18 months old and you were more closely involved in its creation than I was.
The Treaty gives the European Union comprehensive legislative powers in the field of energy with only one far-reaching exception, which was included quite deliberately.
The question of energy technology and the energy mix remains in the hands of the national parliaments.
We can argue about whether this was the right thing to do, but it is clear that the conclusions to be drawn from the events in Japan for the Energy Roadmap must be based on the Treaty of Lisbon and, as things currently stand, I believe that Article 194 is unlikely to be revised in the foreseeable future.
I would like it to be revised and I believe that there is sufficient expertise at a European level with regard to the energy mix.
However, for the next few years, energy technology and electricity generation are a matter for the Member States.
This means that in three to four years, renewable energy will have overtaken coal and nuclear power in the electricity sector.
I am sure that we can come to a consensus on a percentage for energy generation of 40 + x% in 2030 and then reach a decision about this with the Member States.
When we look at the renewable energy scenario, we should also always consider what is happening in the Member States.
I do not believe that it is likely and, therefore, I would like to ask the Members of all the groups who are present from the large and up-and-coming EU Member State of Poland: Do you believe that the politicians in your country, regardless of who is in government, will be able to bring the percentage of coal down to zero over the next few years and decades?
I trust our friends in Poland to take security issues into consideration in just the same way as I trust you. (Applause and heckling) To the group chair, I would like to say that we have a tendency in Germany to want to decide everything in Europe.
In Mrs Hedegaard's road map, we have included a reduction of 10% in CO2 emissions for the energy sector by 2050 compared with today's levels. (Heckling) As far as the subject of nuclear power is concerned, we all know that there are countries which currently have a moratorium on nuclear power stations or which want to shut them down, for example, Germany.
Therefore, I think it is very important, despite all these differences and differing cultures, that the stress test and the safety investigation with the highest safety standards should be introduced and accepted by all the Member States.
Before the decision is made, I will be presenting you with a draft of the stress test and the test criteria in May in a way which is completely transparent.
This stress test which we have been commissioned to develop by the Heads of State or Government is the first common European procedure for ensuring the highest safety standards in all 143 nuclear power plants.
Therefore, in the second half of the year, while the safety investigation is going on, I would like to discuss with you, in line with the European Council's requirements, the issue of how we can carry out an early, rapid revision of this safety directive and establish concrete requirements for the safety of nuclear energy at a European level. (Applause) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been most instructive.
The Hungarian Presidency began this half-year with great ambitions in the area of energy policy.
A multitude of arguments have been made for and against having some form of guidance regarding the energy mix in the European Union.
I believe that we will not be able to settle this within the foreseeable future, but I am not sure if that is a problem; as such, the Member States must be able to make responsible decisions regarding their own energy mix.
The European Council of 4 February 2011 set this as its objective, as well as the elimination of energy islands within the European Union by 2015, and subsequently, at the Energy Council at the end of February, we were also able to adopt conclusions, which I believe is a major step forward.
The energy ministers, however, will already hold a preliminary debate on this subject and the related goals at the informal Energy Council on 2 and 3 May in Budapest, and the Presidency will prepare a report and a political summary of this, which will be on the agenda of the formal Energy Council meeting in June.
However, the fact that the Member States have a maximum commitment to both the issue of nuclear energy safety and having a common European framework is best demonstrated by the conclusions of the European Council of 24 to 25 March.
These conclusions stress that we must draw lessons from the disaster in Japan, and that we must review the safety condition of the EU's nuclear power plants and conduct the stress tests.
Finally, the European Council itself will also address the topic again at the last European Council meeting of 2011.
The Heads of State or Government also stressed that nuclear safety must not be limited to the territory of the European Union, and that we will also ask our neighbours to take these stress tests.
And so, as intense as today's debate may have been, there have been common points on which, I believe, we are all in agreement: there should be a common European framework, we should do everything at every level to ensure the highest possible level of safety, and we should do all this in a transparent manner, ensuring maximum publicity.
The Council is ready to cooperate with both the European Council and the European Parliament along these principles.
Comprehensive, independent and transparent stress tests must begin immediately.
Stress tests on nuclear facilities represent a step forward.
in writing. - (RO) Safety regulations in the nuclear industry must be reviewed against the background of the Fukushima nuclear disaster.
The plant can withstand earthquakes with a magnitude of 8 on the Richter scale, while the earthquakes which can occur in Romania have an average magnitude of between 7 and 7.5.
As a result of the Japanese experience, several countries will probably re-think their nuclear energy strategies.
Should multiple Member States across Europe re-think their nuclear energy strategies as a result of the events in Japan, this could have a considerable influence on European energy markets, as the power generated by the nuclear power plants would have to be substituted from other sources.
in writing. - (BG) The Fukushima tragedy forces us to learn lessons and immediately adopt the measures expected by European citizens.
The EU must adopt as soon as possible the minimum safety standards to be made mandatory for all power plants.
Both the standards and criteria for the stress tests must be drawn up by the specialists from the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group.
I support the development of new technologies and especially renewable energy sources.
However, it is patently clear that they are unable to replace the nuclear facilities in the short and medium term.
Another lesson from the accident at the Fukushima 1 nuclear plant is that it is dangerous to entrust power generation fully to the private sector.
Although, in Europe, there is a legal framework initiating constant improvements in the technology, there will be a need to invest extensively in research and training, in order to guarantee the highest possible level of safety and the protection of health and the environment, in line with the latest scientific and technical findings.
in writing. - The nuclear accident in Japan has raised fresh concerns about the safety of nuclear power across the globe.
This risk must be managed effectively and, as the tragic events in Japan remind us, as a matter of urgency.
Nuclear energy is a resource which the global economy cannot do without in the long term.
The solution is for us to assign more resources to research in this area and to improve nuclear technology so that we can reduce the risks caused by accidents.
That is why we must act on two levels.
These efforts make it necessary, from today, to have a binding regulation and massive investments at European level and in the Member States.
