Eavesdropping scandal in Bulgaria (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the eavesdropping scandal in Bulgaria.
The measure which is being attacked in this debate is a legitimate legal instrument which can be used in the fight against crime.
The law foresees that phone tapping can only be requested by public prosecutors or by law enforcement agencies, such as the police and the national security agency, if they suspect that the person in question is involved in criminal activity and after there is authorisation by a judge.
The information collected must be kept confidential and must only be used for the purposes outlined in the law.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I was one of those in this Parliament who strongly promoted the accession of Bulgaria to the European Union.
I would ask the Commissioner to do his job, as he did, and ask the Bulgarian Government to stop this kind of wrong implementation and wrong law enforcement tending towards a very restrictive practice concerning these interceptions.
But I was surprised last week to receive a visitor in my office in Brussels who spoke about people in Bulgaria receiving visits from the secret service in their homes at night.
We often encounter suspicions that the government is using them not only in the fight against organised crime, but also to monitor and suppress political opposition.
In any case, there is a peculiar situation in this area in Bulgaria, and I think it would be good to assist our Bulgarian friends in sorting matters out regarding the application of the relevant legislation. (BG) Mr President, in Bulgaria, we have a saying for what we are witnessing in the current debate: 'the thief who cries 'thief!''.
During your rule, socialists and royalists, the police attacked peaceful demonstrators, but now you are stirring up a fuss about infringements of civil liberties.
When you were in power, the journalist Ognyan Stefanov was beaten to death, and now you complain of censorship.
However, it will not work, because the voters are not blind.
I would like to draw your attention to some of the things my fellow Members have expressed.
Yes, Mr Swoboda, I will enquire about this, and we will take steps as necessary. (BG) Mr President, today's debate is not just about widespread eavesdropping in Bulgaria.
The Bulgarian scandal has put the Charter, the Stockholm Programme, Directive 9546 and numerous documents on data protection in jeopardy, because in Bulgaria, recorded conversations of doctors are made public without legal justification and with no opportunity for a legal defence.
These devices are very important in fighting corruption and criminality, and that is why we are appealing to you to ensure that they are lawfully used in the context of the mechanism for verification and cooperation. (BG) Mr President, the escalation in the use of special eavesdropping devices in Bulgaria is a fact, which is why the public is so excited and concerned.
Bulgaria's present government is under attack from the old status quo, the remnants of the communist regime in the structures of power and those who illegally enriched themselves during the period of transition.
In recent days, fellow Members of the Bulgarian opposition have presented the situation in Bulgaria in the darkest possible terms.
There are no contract killings or kidnappings, organised crime has been dealt a severe blow and the channels of corruption which benefited the circles of the old status quo, not just economically but also politically, have been cut off.
Commissioner, this debate ought to have been held about another Member State as well, namely, Romania.
This is a very serious situation and I call on the European Commission to intervene urgently to uphold the rule of law and democracy in both Member States. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat the European Commission's assessment that the present government of Bulgaria is showing a real ambition to crack down on organised crime.
May we ask my fellow Members whether they are aware of whose hands they are playing into by their present actions? (BG) Mr President, I would like to turn to Commissioner Piebalgs, because a great deal of propaganda has been coming from Bulgaria's ruling party today.
The Parliamentary Commission, headed by the ruling party's coalition partner, the nationalists of Ataka, presented the Bulgarian parliament with a report saying that the government is filtering information acquired from wiretaps before passing it on to the courts.
The report also says - and, I repeat, the report was prepared by the Bulgarian parliament - that fundamental rights of people living in Bulgaria, who are likewise European citizens, are being broken.
This is not a question of propaganda or a party political campaign.
It is a question of clear facts and we believe that the Commission, as the guardian of the treaties, will familiarise itself with them and issue its opinion. (BG) Mr President, as I am among the last to take the floor in this debate, I would like to summarise by saying a few words.
The truth cannot be right-wing or left-wing.
As you can see, the remaining wiretaps were clearly used for other purposes. 16 000 eavesdropping devices means that before 2010, between 5% and 10% of Bulgarian citizens were wiretapped, directly or indirectly.
It is my view that these questions have to be debated here, because obviously we do not have the strength to do so in Bulgaria. (BG) Mr President, I would like to ask the European Commission whether it is aware of the fact that there have been 27 rulings against Bulgaria at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for misuse of police powers.
The declaration of the ruling political party claims that the opposition, both on the right and the left, have a hand in organised crime and the enemies of GERB are the enemies of the state, while the political and criminal oppositions today are the same thing.
It would have significantly improved the quality of this debate.
Commissioner, I therefore feel that the representative of the Commission really should follow this case very closely, because the tension felt in this Chamber today is still excessive. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there will be debates when it comes to fundamental and inalienable European values such as security and human rights, and when the fine line between them is widened.
The European Commission asked the Bulgarian authorities to provide information so it could check whether eavesdropping devices are being used lawfully.
It seems that the same thing is now happening to our colleagues in Bulgaria, with liberal democrats and socialists being called criminals simply because they represent an opposition force in their country.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this has been a rather heated debate, but I would like to emphasise three points which I believe are fundamental.
The accession process to the EU - and my country went through this - is not an easy one, but when a country is accepted into the EU, we really believe that this Member State has the ability to be the guarantor of fundamental human rights and also of the implementation of EU law.
So the Commission is monitoring the situation and, if there is the need, the Commission will act, but I think we should not go beyond the structures that are in Community law and the Commission will definitely stay within Community law.
