Explanations of vote (SK) The adopted draft resolution of the European Parliament on the second European Summit on Roma opens a new path for resolving the problems of the Roma population in the European Union.
It has become apparent that the individual efforts of various countries to settle the integration of the Roma into society have not produced a satisfactory result.
The causes of this situation are varied.
However, this resolution seeks to place the responsibility for fighting discrimination into the EU context whereas I would argue that attitudes and approaches in Member States are so varied that the interests of minority groups would be better addressed by Member States and particularly by those Member States who do not share the ideal of tolerance and equality that we British take for granted.
Please do not associate the British people with such behaviour by suggesting that minority groups in our country need the same levels of protection as the same poor soul that I have just referred to. (NL) Mr President, it is a matter of fact that anyone who denies a problem, who denies the truth, will obviously be unable to solve that problem.
In any case, I think that each Member State should itself have the right to decide how to tackle this very serious problem. (NL) Mr President, this report is an extremely politically correct one, the type of report, indeed, for which this House appears to have obtained a patent.
I also oppose any attempt by Europe to meddle with this issue and I wish to repeat that each Member State is entitled to remove from its territory people who systematically refuse to adapt and who resort to criminal behaviour. (LT) I voted for the resolution on the priorities for the 2011 budget for many reasons, but mostly for the attention given to the matter of youth unemployment.
The current economic and social situation in many European Union countries requires a special approach to the increasing gap between youth and the labour market, although it is acknowledged that investment in young people and education is investment in the future.
Experience shows that during an economic slowdown, young people would rather remain in the education system or begin studies than look for work.
I very much hope that the European Union has sufficient political will to not simply adopt very important documents, but to implement them as well. (NL) Mr President, I voted against this report primarily because I totally disagree with the priorities which this Parliament has proposed to the Commission, including the harmonisation of immigration policy.
However, I voted against this report, first and foremost, because it has already made it very clear that this Parliament is not in favour of the much-needed slimming down of European bureaucracy.
There are some that should be abolished before we go creating a new one.
My group and I voted for the budget priorities today, but in the near future, we must have the political responsibility to take more important decisions.
A fully implemented internal market, more resources for research and infrastructure, more investment in security and families must be the next objectives, or else we risk ever more conservative actions by the Member States.
We are much more careful with the latter than with the former.
All of the Member States are looking for budget reductions.
EU citizens and discerning consumers must therefore be fully informed as to their advantages.
It is, above all, necessary to praise the fact that European products not only fulfil strict hygiene, safety and veterinary standards, but also respect the principles of sustainable development, climate change prevention, biodiversity and animal welfare.
I therefore fully support the introduction of a European quality logo for products originating exclusively from the EU.
The EU must provide financial support for modernising agricultural enterprises and developing micro-enterprises, especially in rural areas, in order to achieve high quality agri-food products by means of the Union. (LT) I voted for this document, since I think that ecological and clean farming is our future and we must promote it.
Consumers must also be provided with all the information and results of scientific research linked to genetically modified organisms and the impact of genetically modified feed on the environment and people's health without hiding anything from them.
I consider that the protection and strengthening of a quality policy for our agricultural produce is a priority for the European Union, because it involves and is bound up with a series of other fundamental subjects at European level, such as ever greater consumer protection, support for SMEs, the preservation of the cultural and traditional heritage of many European regions and the competitiveness of European food producers on a global scale.
These are the reasons why I voted for this report. (CS) I appreciate the fact that the report on agricultural product quality policy ties in with the steps taken previously towards strengthening the policy on quality.
Mr President, may I also thank Mr Scottà for the work in this important report.
As far as animals are concerned, the place of origin must be given as a single defined location only where the animals are born, reared and slaughtered in the same country.
Surely, rather than quality marks and gestures like this, we should be trusting the market, we should trust the consumers and we should trust the people. (SK) I voted against this report because, as is often the case with other reports, in this own-initiative report, Europe again advances its own concept of so-called reproductive and sexual rights, which it forces on people in developing countries.
Human life is sacred from conception until natural death, and therefore I could not support this report.
I am alarmed by the estimates of international financial institutions that the billions of people already on the planet will increase by hundreds of millions more and that in sub Saharan Africa, child mortality will increase by between 30 000 and 50 000. (GA) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the effect the financial and economic crisis is having on the poor countries of the world.
We should give all the help we can with regard to public investment, particularly in these countries.
We ought to be making proposals for policies that will solve problems, not exacerbate them.
Now, as far as development aid is concerned, there are many serious studies that have actually demonstrated that granting development aid in too automatic a fashion invariably results in delays to economic reforms and thus in delays to opportunities for economic growth in developing countries.
I will be very brief with my second point.
It is, of course, true, as the report states, that developing countries are further undermined by brain drain, but why do we keep on insisting on the 'blue card', which exacerbates this problem even more? (SK) I cannot understand why reproductive health has again been incorporated into a report on the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis for developing countries and development cooperation.
This industry is also financed at the European level from the taxes of citizens who oppose abortion and who are involved in protecting life.
I think it was John Maynard Keynes who wrote 'He who controls the currency controls the country'.
In fact, let me give you a higher and better authority even than John Maynard Keynes.
Quite often, they are the governments who are worried about their aid budgets being cut because, with less aid money coming to them, it is more difficult to keep corrupt and inefficient governments in power.
When I was in Africa last year talking to many centre-right politicians, they complained to me that aid budgets actually keep corrupt governments in power and it makes it more difficult to improve economic and political governance in those countries.
Abortion is not a solution and I regret the fact that some Members of the European Parliament refer euphemistically to 'reproductive medicine' when they mean abortion.
So: all the assets are in all the stock exchanges in New York, London, Tokyo, Frankfurt, etc.
You will now collect about USD 6 trillion worth of capital.
If you sell all the properties which are extra-legal, the slum-valued properties which are not part of the legal system in the developing countries, you will achieve USD 7 trillion.
We were given a free vote by our group, but our delegation decided to vote against because - as speakers have said - talking about reproductive health rights is another way of saying abortion.
So, like other speakers, we objected to that and voted against that section. (DA) Mr President, we in the Danish People's Party voted against this report.
I am thinking in particular of paragraph 27, which very honestly states that the euro should quite naturally lead to closer coordination of economic policies within the euro area.
Thus, the euro is a construction formed with the intention of creating much greater economic unification in Europe.
In this way, the report demonstrates, with all the clarity we could wish for, why Denmark - and my party, the Danish People's Party, in particular - wishes to remain outside the euro area.
However, the report also provided for a list of third countries or parts of countries from which Member States shall authorise importation of bovine animals, swine and fresh meat.
Article 3(1) of Council Directive 72/462/EEC of 12 December 1972 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and swine and fresh meat or meat products from third countries states that the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, would approve a list of third countries from which the Member States shall authorise the importation of bovine animals, swine and fresh meat.
Although this directive has been repealed, the procedure is still carried out and the aforementioned list has been modified over the years.
I believe that this procedure introduces clarity and transparency, not only for Member States, where there are modifications, but also for third countries that export the products in question to the EU.
I welcome the adoption of this report on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and swine and fresh meat or meat products from third countries.
This report is based on Council Directive 72/462/EEC of 12 December 1972, which led the Council to approve a list of third countries from which the Member States shall authorise the importation of bovine animals, swine and fresh meat.
Although this directive has been repealed, the procedure is still carried out and the aforementioned list has been modified over the years.
The food safety of the European public is a fundamental issue that must be of concern to all of us.
Establishing health policy criteria for the importation of certain live animals and their fresh meat from third countries must be very rigorous and such products must be systematically monitored so that we can see if these criteria are being met.
The draft report submitted to vote by Jo Leinen takes over the COM proposal and amendments have been tabled in the ENVI Committee.
I supported both reports on the allocation of funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to unemployed workers in Lithuania.
In Lithuania, the economic and financial crisis has affected many different sectors and many people have been left without work and a source of livelihood.
The EGF's rules on the allocation of funds were simplified, taking into account the complex situation in the labour market and the growing number of unemployed.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was created in 2006 to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
From 1 May 2009, the scope of the EGF was broadened to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the economic and financial crisis.
At this time when we are facing this severe economic and financial crisis, one of the principal consequences is an increase in unemployment.
The EU must use all the means at its disposal to respond to the consequences of the crisis, particularly in terms of the support to be provided to those who have been facing the day-to-day reality of unemployment.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this proposal on the mobilisation of the EGF to assist Lithuania, with the objective of supporting the workers made redundant in the 49 firms operating in the furniture manufacturing industry.
I am delighted that the European Commission approved Lithuania's application to receive EU funding since, during the recession, there is very little opportunity for the redundant furniture company workers to return to the labour market, and the mass redundancies from 49 companies is having a very negative impact on the country's economic situation.
As the requirements for application and mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund have been met, I think that such a mobilisation would be of help.
Just two weeks after Parliament approved the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in response to the redundancies in Lithuania and Germany, we are once again approving its mobilisation, this time in response to the redundancies that have taken place in 49 companies in Lithuania's furniture manufacturing industry.
As we said then, it has already been some time since the number of workers made redundant significantly exceeded the initial estimates of the Commission regarding the number of workers who would come to benefit from the fund.
From 1 May 2009, the scope of the EGF was broadened to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the economic and financial crisis.
At this time when we are facing this severe economic and financial crisis, one of the principal consequences is an increase in unemployment.
The EU must use all the means at its disposal to respond to the consequences of the crisis, particularly in terms of the support to be provided to those who have been facing the day-to-day reality of unemployment.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of this proposal on the mobilisation of the EGF to assist Lithuania, with the objective of supporting the workers made redundant in the 45 firms active in the clothing manufacturing industry.
I am delighted that today, there was a vote on the provision of financial support to the Lithuanian clothing manufacturing industry, as this sector has been hit particularly hard by the recession.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that mostly women work in the clothing manufacturing sector and, due to redundancies caused by the crisis, in the year leading up to July 2009, the number of unemployed women in Lithuania doubled.
Thus, this financial support is very necessary in the clothing manufacturing industry since, with the dramatic fall in demand for clothes in Lithuania and export areas, there has been a marked reduction in the amount of clothing manufacturing.
I would also like to stress that the dismissal of these workers is not just having a negative impact on the country and the local economy, but is also adversely affecting the lives of individual workers.
The Lithuanian clothing manufacturing industry is joining the country's construction and furniture manufacturing industries in losing out from globalisation, with a significant number of workers having been made redundant.
Just two weeks after Parliament approved the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in response to the redundancies in Lithuania and Germany, we are once again approving its mobilisation, this time in response to the redundancies that have taken place in 45 companies active in Lithuania's clothing manufacturing industry.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is born out of that purpose.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and, in order to achieve this, it is essential that these workers have access to new jobs in the future.
in writing. - I voted in favour of two reports by Barbara Matera on financial support for redundant workers in Lithuania from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
Both reports on the situation in the furniture manufacturing sector and in the wearing apparel manufacturing sector represent one of the most acute unemployment cases in Lithuania.
This is the case for those who worked in the 49 enterprises in the furniture manufacturing sector, where redundant workers will be paid EUR 662 088 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, as well as for those who worked in the 45 enterprises in the wearing apparel manufacturing sector, where the sum is EUR 523 481.
Even though this might be only the tip of the iceberg of the unemployment problem in Lithuania, the financial support will help those most in need.
in writing. - We are not in favour of the European Union being responsible for help to redundant workers (or for anything else).
We would oppose money being allocated to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund as we would oppose money being allocated to all EU funds.
We believe that Member States should help their own redundant workers.
We must therefore vote for the fund to be used appropriately for other Member States.
As they have been plunged into this situation by the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could feel justified in voting against the beggarly sums that the European elite want to give them.
Such works are, in fact, intended for social purposes and are a response to housing emergencies experienced in particular in large cities, and it might therefore be advisable to tackle this type of problem by resorting to exceptional measures.
I voted in favour of the report on the annual statement of the European Commission on the euro area and public finances.
What I recall, above all, from this report, which is rich in analysis and proposals, is its call for enhanced European economic governance and, in particular, for better coordination of budget policies.
Growth and solidarity: those are the two key words that must guide our European economic strategy.
Solidarity, because it is the raison d'être of European integration and will be its future.
The question of taxation is within the competence of the individual Member States and the Irish Government has the right to use its power of veto in relation to any tax measures, including CCCTB.
There has been a further decline in employment in European Union Member States and it is forecast that this will continue.
The chaotic structural reforms of some Member States, which are implemented without a concrete plan, threaten the stability of the entire EU.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are going through a particularly difficult period, since both the Member States and the European Central Bank were unable to control and ensure that funds earmarked for the banks were allocated for the main goal - the provision of preferential loans to small business.
It is also very important to support the development of the euro area and to take appropriate measures to create suitable conditions for Member States aiming to become members of the euro area.
The future EU 2020 strategy must consider policies for creating jobs and promoting sustainable development so that we can prevent new economic crises from being triggered.
At the same time, Member States and the European Commission must work together to reduce fiscal imbalances.
I voted for this report since the European Parliament drew the Commission's attention to the fact that while developed states are gradually climbing out of the pit of the global crisis, the situation in developing countries is only getting worse.
Therefore, the European Central Bank (ECB), the European Commission and the euro area Member States must encourage the process of integration in the area of economic and monetary policy in the European Union and support the expansion of the euro area.
I am in favour of calling on the ECB to support the efforts of Member States outside the euro area to introduce the euro, especially in cases where Member States prove their ability to maintain reliable and stable fiscal discipline.
I would like to point out that, in order to avoid financial crises in the future, we must call on the Eurogroup, the Council and the ECB to better coordinate their actions in the area of currency exchange rate policy.
Therefore, in spite of the crisis, little progress has been made in the switch to a common international representation for the euro area.
The greatest concern is that in spite of the fact that every effort is being made to stabilise the area of monetary and fiscal policy, employment in the EU continues to fall and unemployment and social isolation are on the increase.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Giegold report because there is a need for continued detailed debate on the various issues that arise in this report.
It is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime.
However, particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a CCCTB could have on small countries such as Ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend, to a large extent, on its capacity to attract foreign investment.
We must see that the recession is not going away, given that the economic situation in almost all the Member States is clearly negative and unemployment is increasing.
It exacerbates social inequalities and results in cuts in public investment, it increases unemployment and it undermines countries' growth prospects.
in writing. - At a time of serious economic and social crisis, we need to increase efforts to coordinate macro-economic and structural reform strategies across national borders so as to tackle the imbalances that hinder the generation of jobs.
The majority of countries have excessive levels of debt, so measures contributing to stability and growth are needed urgently in order to achieve a more balanced situation.
The reduction of public debt and the reviewing of Member States' priorities are essential in order for public funds to be applied efficiently and, in particular, to create the basis for policies that foster economic growth and, consequently, social well-being.
in writing. - I do not support paragraph 29 as it calls for the introduction of CCCTB.
I shall vote against this report, which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic that is responsible for the economic, social and environmental crisis, the consequences of which we are all suffering.
The economic crisis that has befallen the EU, and which is still being felt quite strongly, has revealed some gaps in Community monetary policy and in the public finances of certain Member States.
The EU needs to improve in several areas, particularly regarding monetary policy, improved coordination and cooperation on economic policy, and the monitoring of Member States' public finances.
It must also devote efforts to tackling energy dependency, and creating an increased number of new jobs in industries that are modern and sustainable from an environmental standpoint.
Paragraphs 12 to 18, which refer to improved coordination of cooperation in the field of economic policy, highlight the imbalances within the euro area due to the lack of cohesion between the economic and, more importantly, the trade policies of the Member States in times of recession.
I also consider that the European Parliament's official recommendation to the Commission that eurobonds be issued and that a common approach be taken to the challenges within the euro area (paragraph 26) is particularly important in light of the policy which the European Union decides to pursue in the immediate future.
The Annual Statement of the Commission on the euro area aims to stimulate a broad debate on euro area economic policies.
In my speech, I spoke about the situation in the euro area and public finances in 2009.
The verdict expressed by my vote has a broader context.
As predicted by economists, 2009 was the most difficult for crisis-hit Member States.
The Union's GDP fell by 4%, industrial production by 20%, unemployment rose to 23 million and so on.
The costs of fighting the crisis have led to a drastic worsening of the situation of public finances.
However, some countries, even before the recession, showed a high level of public debt which was in contravention of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The most serious of these is, without doubt, the existence of huge differences between euro area countries in terms of the stability of their public finances and level of debt.
The lack of discipline, and the lack of an appropriate system of penalties, led, as a result, to a crisis of the common currency.
Many politicians who are not in favour of European economic integration have already announced the collapse of the euro area, and are circulating a vision of catastrophe for the whole process of integration.
The appointment of an eminent professional like Vítor Constâncio as Vice-President of the European Central Bank will enhance the value of the economic and financial policies advocated by this institution.
Vítor Constâncio is taking up the post of Vice-President of the ECB at a difficult time for the euro area.
However, his views on the way in which the European Union must respond to the Greek crisis highlight that he has vision and knows how to protect the European currency.
Fortunately, the National Bank of Romania also has a huge number of professionals and its course of action during the current economic crisis has been faultless.
Throughout his years as Governor of the Bank of Portugal, Vítor Constâncio has been a faithful follower of the guidelines imposed on Member States of the European Union by the European Central Bank.
It is well known that he has constantly called for wage moderation in a country in which low wages abound and which has jarring social inequalities.
These are also the result of the unfair distribution of incomes, which punishes the workers in the interests of capital.
It is also well known that he has failed in the functions of supervision of the banking system that had been assigned to him.
His actions as Governor of the Bank of Portugal have always fitted in well with the liberal guidelines of the ECB.
We will continue to fight these policies, regardless of who is involved in their management.
The fact that he is Portuguese and my loyalty to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) prevent me from voting against.
I supported the nomination of Mrs Rasa Budbergytas a member of the European Court of Auditors.
If appointed to this office, she promises to carry out her work according to two principles.
Secondly, productive work when performing her own personal duties, duties at the Group/Chamber level and those as a member of the college of the European Court of Auditors.
I am sure that her faultless work will be an excellent contribution to the entire European Union.
The EU has always stood in defence of democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of conscience, and those values were, for decades, violated by the socialist regime, not only in Hungary, but also in the many other countries of what was known as the Eastern bloc.
It is true that times have changed, and today we can all enjoy extensive liberties, but we must also remember those who restricted that freedom.
in writing. - The vote in favour of Mr Fazakas is disappointing.
The past is not dead.
If the past is dead, then there is no sense in leading a life guided by norms and values.
Mr Kubik performed very well during the European Parliament hearing, and his candidature has not raised any doubts.
The Court of Auditors is an institution that inspects the European Union's receipts and expenses to verify their legality, as well as verifying good financial management.
The majority of them argued their cases well enough to justify their appointment to the Court of Auditors, where they will carry out their duties capably and independently.
The EU and its Member States are significant contributors to the UN's budget.
The report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the 65th Session of the United Nations General Assembly has been adopted today, 25 March 2010, without a vote by the European Parliament.
The Member States should make every effort to have this matter included in the Assembly's agenda.
If appropriate measures are not taken, we could have nearly 1.5 billion workers in poverty because of unemployment or insecure and badly paid jobs.
However, in the case of both countries, cooperation between the EU and the UN worked very well during rescue and assistance of the victims.
In addition, another crucial question is assistance in maintaining order and in rebuilding a disaster-hit country.
Despite the fact that all Member States of the EU also belong to the UN, and that the European Union has the status of permanent observer at the UN, it is difficult to develop a harmonious position shared by all EU countries.
It is true that it promotes the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the control of all weapons.
It is true that it promotes the abolition of capital punishment.
For all these reasons and others that I cannot list here, this text does not seem to me to be worthy of the European Union as I conceive of it.
The forthcoming session of the United Nations General Assembly is another opportunity for the EU to present itself as the true catalyst for world peace and solidarity.
We cannot forget that the EU is the main source of funds for the United Nations, contributing 40% of its total budget, 40% of peacekeeping costs and 12% of the troops in conflict zones.
That being the case, we must assume our role as principal actors, redefining the role of the EU in the United Nations, and becoming involved in global governance and the reform of the United Nations, in peace and security, and in development and climate change.
There is no doubt that the UN and its role in the international system must be strengthened all over the world by means of appropriate reforms.
Reform of the development cooperation system, which is covered in the report, must also be supported.
Therefore, I do not understand why the report calls for the Member States to increase their contributions significantly in the run-up to the reforms.
For this reason, I abstained during the final vote.
in writing. - The majority of European Roma became citizens after the 2004 and 2007 enlargements and they and their families enjoy the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the EU.
However, in some Member States with a significant share of Roma population, the Roma are still faced with numerous problems such as segregation in education, housing, very low employment rates and unequal access to health care and public services.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that the situation of most Roma living in many EU Member States differs from the situation of other European ethnic minorities and therefore, we must take the necessary measures at EU level and establish a joint strategy to combat discrimination against Roma.
I agree with the European Parliament's call for the new members of the Commission to give Roma matters a priority in their areas of competence and to devote the required attention to implementing the strategy on Roma inclusion.
Therefore, the Commission and the Member States must agree and find a common dialogue on the Roma situation and take measures to combat their discrimination.
The European Union is currently aware of the problems faced by the Roma minority, as is also highlighted by the number of reports discussed and implemented, including substantial funding for Roma social inclusion programmes which, however, have not had the anticipated impact.
In Romania, according to some estimates, the Roma minority amounts to more than 2 million.
However, the Roma minority in Romania has failed to appoint its own leader to represent this group in public or in the Romanian Parliament.
The Second European Roma Summit represents a commitment to dialogue about cultural diversity and what that represents in terms of human wealth.
We are also guaranteeing a society that is more fair, more creative and more dynamic.
It is important to integrate ethnic minorities, not just into the labour market, but also into all areas of society.
It is important to adopt a common position on structural and pre-accession funding policy.
The members of this ethnic minority continue to suffer discrimination and social exclusion, despite efforts to integrate them.
The EU has been supporting the Member States in their efforts to implement effective policies.
There must be discussion of the results in April at the Second European Roma Summit in Córdoba.
I hope that the results of this summit can contribute to the achievement of a strong European political commitment regarding a future strategy for promoting the inclusion of the Roma people in Europe's economic, social and cultural life, and ensure equal opportunities for everyone in the EU, including the Roma.
All the countries which have a large Roma population have policies for integrating them, but they are only implemented by sector, while other policies do not consider specific factors, making them ultimately ineffective.
Roma communities have existed throughout Europe for many centuries and, until very recently, they were subjected to persecution by many of the Member States.
Even today, these prejudices persist, as do the consequences that have historically been inherent to them: even today, the Roma are one of the communities with the lowest levels of schooling and the highest rates of criminality.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution makes reference to certain principles that must not be underestimated, such as the importance of combating discrimination against the Roma people and the need to integrate this minority by means of a global strategy.
These are all good proposals, but they do not take into account the state of degradation in which many Roma communities in certain Member States, such as Italy, find themselves, often by choice.
The resolution on the Second European Roma Summit, which takes place in Córdoba on 8 and 9 April, expresses concern about the discrimination suffered by the Roma in education, housing, employment and equal access to health care systems and other public services, as well as the astounding low level of their political participation.
However, Parliament has asked the Commission to draw up new proposals on the social inclusion of the Roma.
This House is also calling on the Member States to make greater and more visible measures to respond to the Roma's legitimate rights, taking into account the fact that measures to combat discrimination are not sufficient to facilitate their social inclusion.
This resolution is yet another of those texts where absolute priority must be given to such and such a category of people, a category that must, of course, benefit from particular attention and be taken into account in all national and European policies.
Today, we are talking about the 10 or 12 million Roma in the EU.
I supported this resolution, ahead of the Córdoba Summit on 8 April 2010, because the inclusion of Roma in all spheres of society must be one of the priorities to be defended at European level.
In my opinion, we must not only emphasise the situation of Roma in Eastern Europe, where they suffer significant discrimination, but we must also be aware of the fact that these problems remain equally pronounced, but more insidiously so, in other European countries such as France.
I voted for the Resolution on Roma integration, based on the view that this European minority needs specific policies which must be implemented quickly.
persist and are even getting worse in some Member States.
We have great expectations of the summit in Córdoba, but the needs of the Roma, who are expecting results in terms of respect for their rights and anti-discrimination policies, are greater.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution submitted jointly by the six largest political groups in Parliament, in which, reiterating the previous cycle's resolution from early 2008, the European Commission is called upon again to work out an all-encompassing European strategy on the Roma, designed to remedy the social and economic exclusion suffered by the Roma in Europe.
The motion correctly points out that anti-discriminatory measures are insufficient in themselves to promote the social integration of the Roma.
Harmonised Community efforts resting on a secure legal foundation are needed in order to bring together all social and institutional actors and, at the same time, exert pressure on the participants to keep their own promises.
Furthermore, it is extremely important that the resolution unequivocally takes a stand beyond 'soft law' instruments in support of binding legislative commitments and realistic budgetary contributions.
The EU is an area of solidarity and inclusion, so it must do what is required to prevent discrimination against the Roma and to give them the same rights as regards education, employment, health care and housing in all Member States, as well as states that intend to join the Union in the future.
However, if this is to be achieved, the Roma cannot exclude themselves and must help with their own integration into a European area that is intended to be inclusive.
Attempts have been made over a long period to improve the poor social situation of the Roma who live on the fringes of society in shanty towns or tent cities.
For this reason, I have voted against the report.
This motion for a resolution is going in a one-sided direction by proposing subsidies and financial support for Roma people in the European Union.
Of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that marginalised groups, such as the Roma, are better integrated into society and, in particular, into the labour market.
However, the Roma people must show that they have the will and can make the effort themselves in order for this integration process to succeed.
Too little emphasis is placed on these aspects in the motion for a resolution on the Roma Summit and, therefore, I have voted against it.
Measures taken to combat discrimination against the Roma continue to be insufficient.
I think the issue of the Roma people should be made a priority by the newly appointed Commissioners, so I decided to endorse the motion for a resolution on the Second Roma Summit drawn up by fellow Members from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
The joint motion for a resolution adopted by Parliament, which I voted in favour of, is extremely important.
As emphasised in paragraph 7, even though the Roma make up a pan-European community and a collective effort is therefore needed at European level, the European Commission has not thus far responded to the call made by the European Parliament on 28 January 2008 for it to formulate a European strategy for the Roma, in cooperation with the Member States, in order to enhance coordination and improve the situation of this particular community.
Given that, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, it is the Member States that are competent for the smooth integration of this specific group of the population into their society - and in Greece there is a large, established Roma community - the European Parliament should - and this is the purpose of this specific motion - call for a more dynamic initiative by the Commission and the Council for better coordination of actions with the aim of fully integrating the Roma into European societies.
I voted for the resolution in the conviction that, during the period that immediately follows, the specific measures aimed at improving the situation of the Roma population will be put into practice rather than remain fine statements.
Conventional measures involving professional retraining, consultancy and providing information to Roma beneficiaries must also take into account the specific nature of their culture.
This resolution shows Parliament's position ahead of the Second European Roma Summit, which is being held on 8 and 9 April in Córdoba under the Spanish Presidency.
The situation of the Roma population is different from that of other minorities in the EU and their inclusion requires effective policies to curtail the systematic discrimination to which they are subjected.
The resolution calls on European institutions to make a coordinated and strategic contribution to including Europe's Roma population.
More specifically, it once again calls on the European Commission to develop a comprehensive European Strategy for Roma Inclusion as the instrument for combating social exclusion and discrimination of Roma in Europe.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the Second European Roma Summit as I believe that the battle against discrimination directed at the Roma, which is a pan-European community, requires a Community approach.
We must express our concern regarding the discrimination suffered by Roma in terms of education, housing and employment, as well as equal access to the health care system and other public services.
We call again on the Commission to adopt a horizontal approach to the Roma issue and to draft additional proposals aimed at implementing a coherent policy at European level on Roma social inclusion.
With this in mind, we ask the Commission to prepare a European Roma strategy in cooperation with Member States to provide better coordination of and promote the efforts aimed at improving the situation of the Roma population.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for reasons which go beyond the draft decision and the content of the Council proposal on supplementing the Borders Code as regards the surveillance of the sea external borders.
The opinion of Parliament's Legal Service is very clear.
We especially welcome point 1 of Annex I (respect of the principle of non-refoulement, the consideration of the special needs of vulnerable persons and those who are in need of urgent medical assistance, training for border guards in human rights and refugee law) as well as points 3 and 4 (including consideration of the migrant's situation, taking into account their possible requests for assistance or the seaworthiness of the ship, no disembarkation in countries where persons risk being persecuted and tortured) mentioned in Annex II.
This text will make it possible to bring appeals before the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning states that fail to meet their commitments in relation to the principle of non-refoulement on the high seas, whereas currently, they escape this completely.
It is important that the Member States operating under the auspices of Frontex provide assistance to migrants who find themselves in distress at sea, regardless of their nationality, their status or the circumstances in which they were found.
The motion for a resolution concerns the draft Council decision and supplements the Borders Code as regards the surveillance of the sea borders within the framework of operations coordinated by Frontex for measures to rescue people at sea.
As far as Greece is concerned, and due to increased immigration pressures, these specific measures facilitate the presence of Frontex in Greek seas.
Furthermore, search and rescue should be carried out on the basis of specific principles and the people arrested or rescued must be disembarked on the basis of a specific operational plan.
That is why I believe that this specific initiative should be supported and implementation of the measures referred to in the Council proposal should be accelerated.
in writing. - Contrary to our position (I voted in favour), the qualified majority was not reached, and so the resolution to reject the Commission proposal and follow the advice of Parliament's legal services has fallen.
I voted in favour of this report on the priorities for Budget 2011.
As stated in the report, specific support must be provided for entrepreneurship and for micro-enterprises, and these issues should be placed at the heart of European Union policy for youth and innovation.
Support should be given to programmes that help young people who are starting a new business.
The role and the importance of young people in the European Union and in the future of the Union must be recognised, encouraged and supported.
Young people with degrees and qualifications are increasingly affected by unemployment.
Of the other priorities in this budget, I would pick out the areas of research, innovation and the digital agenda: these areas are essential to Europe's sustainable development.
This budget even concentrates efforts on supporting the development of green and innovative technologies, thus making an essential contribution to economic recovery and giving impetus to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Likewise, the Danish Social Democrats fully support the appropriation of the necessary funds for the EU's growth and employment strategy, EU 2020.
We Swedish Social Democrats chose today to vote in favour of the priorities for the 2011 budget.
We largely agree with the priorities stated in the report.
We also believe that it is important for the EU's new strategy for growth and employment, 'EU 2020', to be given sufficient financial resources to allow it to succeed.
In a context of generalised crisis and against a backdrop of the ambitious requirements of the 2020 strategy in terms of innovation, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and economic growth and employment, it is essential to put the challenges of the 2020 strategy at the heart of the budgetary priorities.
For that reason, I am pleased to discover a clear commitment to education, research and innovation policies in the priorities set for the 2011 budget by the Commission.
It is also essential to keep economic recovery and emergence from the crisis in mind, so I am also pleased to see support for small and medium-sized enterprises as one of the major concerns of the 2011 budget.
I would point out that the 2011 budget will be the first to be adopted under the Treaty of Lisbon, with the resulting strengthening of parliamentary intervention.
These are priorities that also put the 2011 budget at the service of the EU's external interventionism; of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy; of militarism and war; of policies that criminalise immigration; of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
That being the case, our only response to this report can be to vote against it.
However, this is neither the only way nor inevitable.
We tried to demonstrate just that with the various proposals that we tabled during the debate.
Constructing the EU budget during a financial crisis, with a very narrow budget margin and new areas of work relating to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, is not easy.
It therefore gave me all the more satisfaction, during the vote, to endorse Mrs Jędrzejewska's report on the 2011 budget and the motion for a European Parliament resolution, both of which provide for ambitious budget priorities for next year.
Alongside the traditional priorities, such as cohesion policy and support for innovative and ecological technologies, the 2011 budget should concentrate on ensuring full operation of the new initiatives in the EU: the European External Action Service, the EU 2020 economic strategy and measures which are part of the Eastern Partnership.
Faced by demographic problems, the EU must not allow itself to have a low percentage of educated young people, because this would lead to a still greater rise in unemployment in that age bracket, which is something the EU simply cannot afford.
Therefore, the European budget must have funds reserved to support language learning, intercultural dialogue, increasing the mobility of young people and integration of graduates in the job market.
If I have understood the words of this report correctly, everything or almost everything becomes a priority, which means that there is no priority.
It is true that the rapporteur's concern to ensure that spending funded by the EU budget is not only useful but effective and that it brings genuine European added value to national policies is worthy of praise.
On the one hand, I recall that in the last 14 or 15 years, this has not been the case, since the European Court of Auditors did not feel able to approve the execution of the annual budgets.
On the other hand, I am still looking for concrete proposals in this report that will enable this objective to be achieved.
In particular, I am looking for the proposals by which to put an end to programmes that are nothing but pure populism, the useless allocation of small amounts of funding, ideological propaganda and attempts to intervene more in areas in which the EU fortunately has only few powers and, above all, is ineffective.
Although I voted in favour of this report, I would like to underline some critical reservations I have about the priorities for the 2011 budget.
I believe that financial support for SMEs must be made a priority in Europe because SMEs play a crucial role in ensuring large numbers of jobs, as well as in the development of regions and rural areas.
I also think that young people are extremely important at the moment and in the EU's future.
This must also be reflected in the budgetary priorities.
The innovative ability of young people is a key resource for development and economic growth which the EU should rely on.
I welcome the fact that the youth policy must also take into account preparation for the labour market in schools and universities.
It is also essential that there be investment on a very large scale in the areas of climate change, the environment and social policy.
In order for the 2020 strategy to be a success, therefore, it is crucial that new ways of financing and raising funds for it be found, as we cannot do what we have done in the past and reassign funds intended for the structural, cohesion or common agricultural policies.
I voted in favour of the report on the priorities for the 2011 budget, one reason being the proposals in terms of funding the CAP.
In particular, it notes that financing of priorities in connection with the future EU 2020 strategy through a possible reallocation of funds must not be detrimental to fundamental EU policies, such as the cohesion, structural or common agricultural policies.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on priorities for the 2011 budget - Section III - Commission, thereby confirming that it must be the priority of political leaders in the European Union and Member States to preserve existing jobs and create other new ones which will allow European citizens to make a decent living.
The Communication from the Commission entitled 'Europe 2020: a European strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' provides the basis for an extensive debate on the EU's economic and social strategy for the coming years.
I also voted for Amendment 5, bearing in mind that unemployment is a key topic in current discussions and that, in order to be able to tackle fully the issue of the already high and ever-growing unemployment rate, the EU must implement an ambitious social agenda.
The European Union must invest, above all, in research and in the transport and energy infrastructure in order to be able to remain competitive globally.
Furthermore, both Member States and the EU must invest in education and the development of young people.
This is why programmes like Erasmus, especially the Erasmus scheme for young entrepreneurs, must feature as a priority which is also reflected in the 2011 budget.
Today's vote was exceptional for two reasons.
During a crisis, it is particularly important to support young people by, for example, helping them find their first job or set up their own business.
I support this report since the circumstances in which the 2011 budget will be adopted will be exceptional due to the Treaty of Lisbon coming into force and the continuing economic and financial crisis.
The main priority must continue to be job retention and creation, which is closely linked to the need for financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises that create a large portion of jobs.
When approving the 2011 European Parliament budget, particular attention must be paid to evaluating the European Parliament's priority - the forming of high level lawmaking - and all necessary measures must be provided for that goal.
I advocate a realistic and feasible budget, but one that provides the various institutions with the material means necessary to carry out their duties.
in writing. - Planning for the 2011 budget is very important and I agree with the report's call for a carefully considered and transparent discussion.
Approaching this with anything less than caution would be an insult to the people of my home country and of all of Europe who are facing their own budgetary concerns.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to say that I hope our caution also shows our solidarity and fraternity with our Greek and Portuguese colleagues who are having a notably difficult time at the moment.
That is difficult to explain during this time of crisis, but if Parliament's work is to be excellent, it needs to have the necessary financial and human resources.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important report.
The circumstances under which the 2011 budget is being adopted are exceptional and constitute a challenge at the same time.
The successful implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon is a greater priority, while the effects of the economic crisis, which are making themselves felt in the European Union, make achieving this objective even more demanding.
In this context, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), to which I belong, continues to advocate a sustainable and rigorous budget, in which each item of expenditure is justified and in which the rigour and efficiency can be sustainably assured.
I agree that it is necessary to promote greater cooperation and strong dialogue at interinstitutional level in order for resources to be better used in various areas, such as translation and building policy, amongst others.
That is why I voted for the 2011 budget guidelines included in this report ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) I voted in favour of the report on the EU agricultural product quality policy because to me, it seems extremely relevant in two areas.
I voted in favour of the report entitled 'Agricultural product quality policy: what strategy to follow?' because quality is a decisive factor in the competitiveness of European products in international markets.
In this context, I consider the implementation of compulsory 'place of farming' labelling positive, as it makes it possible to provide consumers with information relating to quality standards.
It will be necessary for the common agricultural policy to commit to the increased quality of its agricultural produce, which is an undeniable value added for European competitiveness in the global market.
I would remind you, however, that agricultural product quality policy cannot be so demanding that it endangers small and medium-sized farmers, or the existence of traditional products that are typical of certain regions and whose manufacture cannot be subject to rules that are blindly uniform.
However, it sidesteps issues that are vital to safeguard agricultural product quality and the sustainability of agricultural production in the EU: for example, the consequences of the deregulation of world trade and the unchecked liberalisation of the markets, both within the framework of bilateral agreements and within that of the World Trade Organisation; the various dangers inherent to the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment in the way that it has been done; lastly, the need for a profound reform of the common agricultural policy that supports local protection, the right to produce and the right to food sovereignty.
I would like to congratulate the fellow Member on his report, and to say that I agree with the view that agricultural product quality policy should not be treated separately from common agricultural policy or the central ideas of the Community's policy for the next few years, such as sustainable development, biodiversity or combating climate change.
I also share the rapporteur's opinion on the matter of conducting an information and educational campaign on the subject of all European agricultural product labels which are being and have been approved.
I strongly support the own-initiative report on agricultural product quality policy for which a vote was held on 25 March 2010.
Clear labelling of the origins of products not only guarantees consumers the best product quality but also enables them to make a decision on the basis of objective and transparent criteria.
Quality is a key issue for the entire food chain and an essential asset in supporting the competitiveness of European agri-food producers.
The geographical indication system is well established in the European Union and in many countries outside the EU, such as the United States, Australia and New Zealand.
However, the EU has, unfortunately, commercial partners who do not have legislation in this area.
Although I am of the opinion that we should take care what we ask the Commission for in own-initiative reports, I am in favour of the report on agricultural product quality policy.
This applies not only to milk production, but also to wine growing in particular.
This report has an undeniable flaw: it includes agricultural policy in the self-serving logic of the pursuit of maximum profit, which is the opposite of the notion we have of agricultural policy.
For this reason, there is a sense of the need to protect these products and prevent their confusion with others that are of inferior quality, are less safe and are sometimes counterfeit.
In order to prevent this, it is crucial that these products are labelled and attempts are made to ensure that consumers obtain trustworthy information relating to these products.
I voted for Amendment 3 because this relates to a point in the motion for a resolution which could be interpreted as encouraging a return to standardisation of agricultural products (shape and dimensions of fruit and vegetables).
This report emphasises the central role played by high quality agricultural products in consumer protection.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the report.
I voted for this report as the strengthening of the quality policy at European Union level is an important incentive for European agricultural producers to step up their efforts in support of quality, food safety and respect for the environment.
I believe that this policy can result in a significant improvement in the added value of European agri-food production as part of an increasingly globalised market.
In the vote on the Scottà report on agricultural product quality policy, Amendment 5 was accepted, which called for the mandatory labelling of the origin of foods made from only one ingredient.
For this reason, I have voted against this amendment.
I voted for the report on the future of food quality policy.
This is both a clear demand by consumers and a requirement that must be respected in order to develop the internal market.
I come to the important question of geographical indications and traditional specialities.
It is true that simplifying the standards may, at first sight, seem desirable in terms of reducing the bureaucratic burden, but it must not result in a reduction of the standards that our European producers have courageously imposed on themselves.
in writing. - I finally voted in favour of the resolution mainly because our Amendments 3 (concerning opposition to standardisation rules for fruit and vegetables) and 5 (concerning mandatory place-of-origin labelling) were adopted.
The EPLP is in favour of an EU-wide organic label, but the Commission is already aware of Parliament's support for this, and other parts of the report are of sufficient importance to vote against the whole report.
Consumers have a right to accurate and clear information on the content and origin of goods and regarding whether or not they have been genetically modified.
When the market is functioning correctly, informed consumers can, through their choices, drive development towards even higher food quality.
For example, it is not the job of the EU to create a 'European knowledge bank for old recipes and historical food preparation methods'.
The cases of food scandals that have multiplied in recent years, due to the capitalist conditions of food production being increasingly imposed by the EU and the WTO, will never be effectively addressed with administrative control measures, nor can GMOs coexist with conventional and organic foods.
Only food sovereignty and security, the safeguarding of safe, healthy, cheap food, support for poor farmers and the establishment of production cooperatives within the framework of people power and a people's economy can meet modern grassroots requirements.
In the vote on the report on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation, I voted for the amendment of paragraph 31, which calls for the introduction of an international levy on financial transactions.
This is more than a question of justice; it is a question of common sense.
The global financial and economic financial crisis caused great disturbances in developed economies but it had even more profound effects on emerging and developing countries.
Financial aid alone cannot ensure economic progress in developing countries.
Thus, the Commission should urge the reform of international development cooperation.
I voted for this report, since we must help developing countries, particularly during this difficult economic period.
Developing countries need aid to reduce poverty and isolation, measures to contribute to development and measures essential to get out of the crisis.
In implementing these actions, the European Union must take the lead and act decisively and, to this end, all EU institutions must make greater commitments.
We cannot allow the crisis to halt the progress that these countries have achieved in the last decade in terms of stable economic growth and therefore I believe that the provision of greater support for development is essential.
I am voting in favour of this report, which introduces key issues about sustainable development and the gradual integration of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries into the global economy.
It is developing countries that are the most affected by global warming, so it is essential to step up all measures to combat climate change, such as the transfer of appropriate technologies.
The economic and financial crisis that is devastating us has had disastrous effects in developing countries that had already been the victims of successive crises (food, energy, climate and financial).
Those who did not cause this crisis but are the most affected urgently need help.
The European Union and the developed countries must respond quickly, firmly and effectively.
I believe that it is crucial that the Member States meet their Official Development Assistance commitments and that they strengthen their commitments to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
The Commission and the Council must also press ahead with the reform of international development cooperation, which is one of the main reasons for the ineffectiveness of development aid.
I support this report's calls for a sustained increase in development aid.
Developing countries, in particular, the poorest ones already hard hit by the 2007 food crisis, are today suffering the full force of the economic and social consequences of the international financial crisis that began in the developed countries.
The latter are now inclined to reduce their development aid to face up to their own difficulties.
I voted for the Guerrero Salom report, which reminds Europe of its responsibilities and demands respect for the commitments made in relation to official development assistance, in particular, the goal of contributing 0.7% of GDP to this by 2015.
By adopting it, Parliament is also calling for the implementation of an international levy on financial transactions to fund development, access to Global Public Goods and the adaptation of poor countries to the challenges of climate change.
The European Union has a moral duty to implement these new tools of international solidarity without delay.
We welcome new ways to get funds to aid-assisted countries, but we would like to make it clear that we do not believe that a tax on international financial transactions is the solution that will enable us to meet the Millennium Development Goals or correct global imbalances.
We would instead like to emphasise the importance of the EU Member States meeting the current commitments with regard to levels of aid that have been set.
In order to generate development and growth in developing countries, we ought to promote free trade and abolish the EU's various direct and indirect barriers to trade.
I voted in favour of the report on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation.
The existing mechanisms for helping poorer countries and their populations - which are facing conditions of extreme poverty and misery - must be applied in a way that is more effective and focused.
Nevertheless, I am opposed to the introduction of a tax on international financial transactions (Tobin tax) to help fund these countries because of the impact that it would have on society in general.
The report under discussion tackles very important issues and makes some arguments that are correct: for example, the closing of tax havens, the cancelling of the foreign debt of certain countries, the need for increased efforts in terms of Official Development Assistance, and a tax on financial transactions.
We must, however, point out some features of the report that are negative and even contradictory.
I supported the report by my colleague, Mr Guerrero Salom, in order to remind the Member States of their responsibilities to developing countries in the face of the global challenges of the economic crisis and climate change, for which they are not responsible.
In order to achieve this goal, I also supported the creation of a tax on financial transactions, as well as the consideration of possible options for cancelling the debt of the poorest countries.
Finally, access to sexual and reproductive health rights remains a priority for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, and it is on this basis that I voted in favour of this report.
This text has the merit of recommending the establishment of a moratorium on debt and the cancellation of that debt for the poorest countries, of advocating food sovereignty and of undertaking to respect the ILO.
This text supports the implacable logic of liberal dogmatism.
Irresponsible speculation, greed for quick profits which are completely unrelated to the real economy in the Anglo-Saxon countries and a financial system that is coming apart at the seams have brought the world to the brink of a financial abyss.
However, in many cases, it is not possible for developing countries to do this because of their poor financial situation.
Therefore, they must be given the opportunity to protect their own national economies more effectively against imported goods which are sold at dumping prices and which destroy local markets and local people's livelihoods.
The report of the Committee on Development on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation rightly notes that in the last two years, there has not been just one crisis, but a whole series of related crises.
Instead of resulting in a reduction in development aid for developing countries, this situation should cause an increase.
The common objective should be to allocate 0.56% of gross national income to development aid by 2010, and 0.7% by 2015.
This explains my support for the immediate fulfilment of obligations undertaken at the G20 summit in Pittsburgh on the matter of a shift in the IMF quota share to emerging and developing countries of at least 5%, and an increase of at least 3% in voting power in the World Bank for developing and transition countries.
Taking into account the fact that the Committee's report contains all the above-mentioned proposals, I decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - I am glad the report was adopted, although with a tight majority (283 votes in favour, 278 against and 15 abstentions), especially because some split votes requested by the EPP to weaken the report in certain paragraphs - taxing the banking system for global social justice, international levy on financial transaction, debt moratorium and debt cancellation - did not succeed.
in writing. - (SV) On 25 March, I voted against the report on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation, primarily because of the wording in paragraph 31 concerning taxing the banking system and imposing a levy on international transactions.
In my view, it is not clear how the Tobin tax could help to prevent future financial crises without global consensus and support.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation because these countries are the most affected by the economic and financial crisis.
The euro area has faced an economic crisis of great magnitude during the last two years.
The cohesion of the policies applied by the ECB and consistent, yet relevant measures have ensured that the impact of the crisis has been kept to a minimum in the euro area.
While states in the euro area have already been reporting a shift into the black for their own economies during the last six months, the first shoots of economic recovery, albeit fairly modest, are evident in Romania only now.
However, this cannot be sustained without a drastic reduction in the budget deficit, which is required to prevent us from ending up in the same situation as Greece.
At the same time, the ECB has demonstrated once again that it is unable to put an end to the mockery being perpetrated by the merchant banks, which borrow from the ECB at a rate of 1% and lend to the states at much higher interest rates.
The way that the European Central Bank has introduced measures in response to the current economic, financial and social crisis has played a vital role, particularly through the measures that have allowed the Member States to maintain their liquidity, issue credit to companies and reduce interest rates, amongst other things.
I therefore believe that exit strategies must make allowances for the genuine stability of the financial markets or suffer the return of a strengthened version of the effects that we have already experienced but whose impact has been softened by these measures.
Congratulating the European Central Bank for its actions in 2008 is a forced exercise with which I refuse to be associated.
in writing. - There is not much to say on this report that is not self explanatory.
In the last two weeks, two former high ranking officials in Ireland's biggest bank have been arrested in dawn raids.
This is a dramatic statement of the need for responsible and moral financial management.
There is just one point I would like to make, and that is the greater need for transparency in our financial institutions, be it at regional, national or EU level.
I shall vote against this report, which blindly promotes the neoliberal logic that is responsible for the economic, social and environmental crisis, the consequences of which we are all suffering.
The serious economic crisis that the entire world is suffering simultaneously is making itself felt extremely sharply in the EU.
We must learn lessons from the mistakes made so that they can be avoided in the future.
The ECB Annual Report 2008 reflects the causes and circumstances of the crisis well.
For the European Central Bank, the last two years were, without doubt, the most difficult period in its history.
The ECB had to tackle a crisis which had hit the European economy severely.
Rising budget deficits in Member States combined with growing debt are the primary macro-economic consequences of the crisis.
The ECB adopted a different strategy for the crisis than other leading central banks around the world.
