Iraq - in particular, the death penalty (including the case of Tariq Aziz) and attacks against Christian communities The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Iraq - in particular, the death penalty (including the case of Tariq Aziz) and attacks against Christian communities.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 November, a German newspaper ran the headline 'Iraqi Christians hunted to death'.
The picture accompanying the article showed a Christian family sheltering in a church in the capital Baghdad.
Witness the massive exodus of Iraqi Christians.
It is the ultimate denial of human rights.
Nonetheless, in 2009, 18 countries carried out death sentences.
Iraq executed more than 120 people and Iran carried out as many as 388 executions.
The recent revelations by Wikileaks have confirmed that these practices have occurred and they are unacceptable.
Madam President, during this debate on the situation in Iraq, on the sentencing to death of Tariq Aziz and on the situation of Christians in Iraq, I wanted to reiterate the total opposition of my group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), to the death penalty.
However, I would also like, above all, to express the indignation of my group about the sharp deterioration in the situation of those Christians residing in Iraq, and to express our strong feelings about the recent deadly attacks that struck the Christian communities in Iraq, notably, the cowardly hostage taking in the Syriac Cathedral of Baghdad on 31 October, which left 58 dead.
What is really at stake here is peace, national reconciliation in this country and the defence of our values of liberty and tolerance. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the death sentence for Tariq Aziz and the drama of the persecuted Christians are subjects that should perhaps have been kept logically separate.
Following that, since 2003 it has suffered terrible violations of human rights, including arrests, abductions and extrajudicial killings under the foreign military occupation.
It is more important than ever that we, the European Union, apply ourselves to our relations with Iraq and discuss this issue with our colleagues in the Iraqi Parliament, particularly the need to abolish the death penalty.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, in Iraq, the death penalty was suspended after the US-led invasion in 2003 but reintroduced in August 2004.
It is well known that the human rights violations in Iraq, under the responsibility of Saddam Hussein, Tariq Aziz and the like, assumed grave proportions.
For all these reasons, Madam President, the GUE/NGL Group will abstain on this resolution, as it will on the one concerning Tibet. (DE) Madam President, on 10 November, five people were killed in a bomb attack against Christians and just a few days previously, there was an attack on a Catholic cathedral.
One hundred people were taken hostage and 40 died as a result.
In recent years, 900 000 Christians have fled Iraq.
We only have to think of the northern part of Cyprus, where approximately 150 churches have been destroyed or converted into mosques since the Turkish occupation and where only one church remains where the Christian population is permitted to celebrate one mass each year.
Today, we have rightly condemned the horrific attack of Sunday, 31 October, but in the meantime, new attacks have taken place, once again claiming human life.
As Vice-Chair of the Delegation for Relations with Iraq, I will continue to monitor the situation and will be happy to hear what the Commission thinks about this. (FI) Madam President, it is a shocking and intolerable state of affairs that again, many innocent people have had to suffer in Iraq on account of their religious beliefs.
In general, religious and national divisions and mutual hatred in Iraq have reached such proportions that the country is in serious danger.
I welcome the Iraqi President's decision not to sign the execution order for Tariq Aziz, but we will watch closely how the Iraqi Parliament behaves in this case. (DE) Madam President, it is a scandal that, after 2 000 years of the presence of Christian communities in the geographical area now known as Iraq, these communities are threatened with disappearance, particularly in view of the intervention by the West in recent years and the fact that these events are taking place under a democratic government that has the support of the European Union.
That is why the European Parliament must focus its human rights work in this area.
I would call on Baroness Ashton to do the same and to keep us regularly informed of the situation of these Christians. (PL) Madam President, there is no end to the murder of Christians; today in Iraq, Nigeria, Egypt and Afghanistan, yesterday in Sudan, India and Indonesia, and tomorrow, if they have not already been killed, if they have not already fallen victim to pogroms, violence, rape and aggression, they will have to live like pariahs, hiding their faith even in places where their cultural, political and economic roots are much older than the appearance of Islam on their homeland.
Parliament should prepare a report on the situation of Christians in Muslim countries, and the European institutions should put the issue of persecution on the agenda when they engage in talks with these countries. (SV) Madam President, there is nothing more illogical than the death penalty - to kill someone in order to show that it is wrong to kill.
We must not send Iraqi people back to certain suffering and oppression. (PL) Madam President, I am sure that the Iraqi Government has the best of intentions, but we all have to do more to protect the Christian community in the country.
The European Union, as a global player and a business partner of various countries in this region, must strongly express its indignation with regard to this situation.
Democracy will only be victorious in this region when the most fundamental human rights, such as religious freedom, are respected. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament must speak out loud and clear against the attacks on Christian minorities in Iraq.
Ten days ago, the EU made an urgent and direct call on the authorities in reaction to the decision by the Iraqi High Tribunal to sentence to death five representatives of the former regime, including Tariq Aziz.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I join my colleagues in this Parliament in the condemnation of the ongoing murders, executions and human rights violations occurring in Iraq.
The situation for Iraq's Christian minority is one of life and death: nearly 50 Iraqi Christians were killed in a ruthless massacre in Our Lady of Salvation Church on 31 October 2010.
Human Rights Watch estimates that, since 2003, almost half of the Christian population of Iraq, hundreds of thousands of people, have had to flee the country.
