Consumer rights (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Schwab, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer rights - C7-0349/2008 -.
Reaching a decision was not always an easy process, with more than 2 000 amendments tabled over the course of two years, but the discussions were always constructive and I thank you all sincerely for that.
Despite all the technical differences on individual issues, which are given expression in the various compromises, there is general cross-group agreement on today's signal from the European Parliament that we wish to develop the internal market in the interests of consumers and businesses.
We have ensured that consumer protection is given appropriate importance in this Directive by establishing a uniform fourteen-day right of withdrawal for all online contracts on an EU-wide basis; by giving consumers dealing with door-to-door sales the choice of whether to receive a printed copy or an electronic copy of the contract document; by providing a 'button solution' to bring greater transparency to Internet business and at the same time to really step up the fight against Internet scams; and, by finally establishing uniform obligations to provide information, in particular in relation to pricing, in other words full pricing information for all Internet and door-to-door transactions.
However, we have also made the directive practicable for small and medium-sized enterprises and small contractors by providing greater flexibility and exclusions for services, in particular, in many areas; by permitting consumers to withdraw from agreements by telephone; by removing some opportunities for businesses to implement unfair contract terms, while at the same time setting down clear conditions for consumers for the return of ordered goods when a purchase is cancelled; and, by finally establishing a uniform withdrawal form that will make it easier for many people throughout Europe to access and exercise their right of withdrawal.
In the end, thanks also to the process of consultation between the Member States, we will succeed in making further legal developments in this important area of consumer protection much less complicated at Council level than has been the case in the past.
As you know, the Council came to an agreement on the subject in December last year, and on 24 January 2011, already during the Hungarian Presidency, the Council officially adopted its preliminary position, that is, the general approach.
In order to reach an agreement, we had to negotiate for over two years in the Council about what the ideal balance between EU and Member State legislation granting consumers' rights would be, and which aspects of consumer rights could be harmonised accordingly.
This approach was also supported by the Commission, since the Council's text creates added value with regard to such contracts at EU level.
If the European Parliament decides in tomorrow's plenary sitting to refer the dossier back to the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, the Hungarian Presidency will endeavour to ensure with great commitment that an agreement is reached at first reading.
As regards these points, the Council's general approach does not differ significantly from Parliament's draft amendments, which were carried by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the IMCO on 20 January and 1 February, respectively.
In this regard, I am particularly grateful to your committees, to the rapporteurs, to Mr Schwab and Ms Wallis and to the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work in search of a compromise.
The Council agreed on a general approach at the beginning of the year.
I can see many reasonable suggestions for further increases in consumer protection and, as I have said before, the Consumer Rights Directive should be a rights directive.
Even if my goal is also to serve the internal market, it is going a step too far to oblige distance traders to supply goods or deliver services in any other Member State.
Sadly, I think that the Legal Affairs Committee would have liked to have done more, for example in Chapter 5 on unfair terms, and particularly in the area of transparency.
For us, however, it is a step that could be very important in terms of the internal market and, indeed, in terms of consumer rights, as you put it so well, Commissioner.
Small and/or innovative financial products should be dealt with either in specific financial sector directives or in a future consumer protection directive.
Last but not least, I would hope that the next steps taken by the Commission ensure a high level of consumer protection which could ultimately lead to full harmonisation of consumer protection regulation in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we did indeed experience some very tough negotiations, Mr Schwab, as opinions were very divided at the start of discussions.
We have significantly strengthened the obligations to provide information to our citizens, the consumers.
However, distance selling via the Internet is one of the key areas that has been included.
These are positive improvements that have enabled us to lend our support.
I cannot deny that a few problems still exist, in particular the clauses relating to unfair contract terms in Chapter 5.
To my mind, the main advances concern better regulation for distance selling, especially over the Internet (chapter III), for consumer rights in this area need to be enhanced.
Let us be clear: this text still needs to be improved and we will have to do so in the coming weeks, with the Council and with the Commission.
We have already done a substantial amount of work thanks to our rapporteur, Mr Schwab, whom I wish to thank wholeheartedly.
Two and a half years of intensive work on this document have led to the achievement of a compromise, which in its final form - I hope - will guarantee greater legal certainty to the consumers of the 27 Member States in the area of distance selling, and in particular when making Internet transactions.
Moreover, by standardisation of information requirements for distance and off-premises contracts, for example, the directive is also intended to encourage a greater number of traders to enter the new markets in the European Union, which should in turn improve the performance of the internal market.
I hope this will be a favourable stimulus, in particular for the popularisation of online selling.
I would like to highlight some of the most important matters.
Secondly, I am pleased that we were able to negotiate a pragmatic text, with the adoption of a mixed approach of minimum and maximum harmonisation, which means, therefore, that those Member States which already have a very high level of consumer protection on some matters have not suffered.
I am pleased, too, that in the Committee on Legal Affairs we managed to negotiate Chapter 5 on unfair contractual terms in a constructive form.
This chapter regulates contracts which are not usually individually negotiated by consumers and are often a source of many abuses on the part of dishonest traders.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schwab, the EU's internal market is a cornerstone of our European cooperation and, as the Commission quite rightly wrote in its draft of the Single Market Act last year, citizens - we Europeans - must be at the centre of the work to develop the single market.
As we all know, the text that we are to vote on tomorrow has been comprehensively revised in relation to the draft that we received from the Commission in the autumn of 2008, as here in Parliament our focus has been on those areas where common EU rules will be of real benefit to both consumers and businesses.
The new directive will mean that there are uniform rules for Internet trading in Europe, and that brings a number of advantages for consumers.
Secondly, the overall price of the product must be specified before a consumer agrees to purchase a product.
Mr President, as a political group, we established the principle of preventing any reduction in consumer rights in the European Union from the outset.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, customer rights is only one of many examples of how European institutions have enormous difficulty in performing acts of great legal and political importance at this historic moment.
We do not want to waste all the work done and the positive things achieved, for example, the contribution of our amendment on the right of recourse, aiming to introduce a distinct improvement in the activity of small traders without harming consumer rights.
If the outcome of negotiations with the Council will be to cancel out the good things that the rapporteur and the groups introduced in a proposal that was bad from the outset, or whether the outcome will be to raise the general level of harmonisation of the Directive, we will have no option but to vote against it.
An approach that takes account of all this was needed from the outset for an issue as complex as consumer protection.
Throughout the process the PPE Group has been flexible and constructive.
I fully support Andreas Schwab in his wonderful job and I wish him well in the negotiations ahead.
In particular, I have a high opinion of the Asturias Consumers' Union and its President, the tireless Dacio Alonso.
In any case, I should like to stress that it is essential to ensure that the list of unfair contract terms not be exhaustive, meaning that each Member State could increase the number of clauses that it considers unacceptable and invalid in contracts with consumers; that the burden of proof be reversed so that it becomes the trader that has to demonstrate that terms outside the norm have been negotiated individually; and that contract terms be expressed in a clear and comprehensible way.
I think that Parliament should vote on the amendments tomorrow, send a clear political signal about what we want, and then refer this back to committee.
Consequently I hope that the colegislators manage to come up with a balanced text which guarantees a genuine and common core of high-level protection. - (CS) Mr President, I would first like to express my thanks and to applaud the work of Andreas Schwab, who has handled the 1 600 amendments so skilfully, achieving sensible compromise forms for the report.
Despite the fact that we failed in the end to agree on full harmonisation in all chapters of the directive, this new arrangement will be a very significant step forwards, involving the elimination of barriers to cross-border trade and, in the final analysis, greater competition on the internal market. (DE) Mr President, I am afraid that I am going to be the person to pour cold water on this.
The Commission proposal has massively extended the scope of two definitions and in this case it has gone much too far, which is clear from the fact that 1 600 amendments have been tabled.
I am aware that there is a whole series of exceptions to this which you, Mr Schwab, and the committee have improved, both in terms of their content and their wording.
In my opinion, this part of the proposal is superfluous.
It could be deleted without causing any problems, together with chapter 4 and chapter 5.
The result was monstrous.
Providing a better regulatory framework for businesses is therefore also about contributing to economic recovery.
We need a Europe that protects, a Europe that reassures and a Europe that provides opportunities to Europeans, to citizens, to consumers and to businesses. - (CS) Mr President, in times gone by, the slogan that the 'customer is king' held true, lifetime guarantees were not the exception, and quality was a matter of honour.
That is why it is so important to have a thorough debate on this legislation, which must not bring about a deterioration in consumer rights, but will have to respond to new challenges.
Our aim should be to enhance consumer protection in those places where legal chaos and uncertainty have prevailed so far, attracting a variety of crooks and undermining confidence in the internal market.
On the other hand, we must retain a high level of consumer protection in those places where it already exists in an effective form.
We not only wish to ensure a higher level of protection for European consumers, but also that European companies, whatever their size, should be able to provide consumers in all 27 Member States with goods and services without unnecessary legal obstacles.
We are sure that, when the institutional negotiations have finished, the new directive will contribute to making the European Union more competitive and dynamic, as can be expected in a global economy. (ES) Mr President, achieving a Consumer Rights Direcive, so establishing a horizontal instrument that will simplify, summarise and complement the four already-existing directives, is positive.
The rapporteur's proposal that the minimum level of harmonisation in consumer protection should be accompanied by the full harmonisation of technical rules is the only acceptable regulatory solution in the present situation.
A system founded on more transparent, common rules enhances consumer awareness, which is not yet fully mature in this region, but has been known in Western Europe for a long time.
It is not the final product, but it is a work in progress: particularly noteworthy are things such as the right of withdrawal, unfair contract terms and particularly the flexibility clauses which give flexibility to national governments.
This is because if we want to set up a genuine internal market for relationships between companies and consumers and are pursuing that, we must establish, at the same time, a balance between a high level of protection for consumer rights and defence of companies' competitiveness.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Schwab and his team of rapporteurs for opinions and shadow rapporteurs for their very good work on this report.
The initial intention of promoting cross-border business is very important and is very good, and I really hope that during the forthcoming negotiations with the Council we will manage to make these adjustments to achieve an optimal result. (RO) Mr President, I think that every consumer should have the right to receive information prior to signing the contract.
National consumer protection authorities should check these standard contracts to protect consumers against unfair terms. - (CS) Mr President, I would like to thank Andreas Schwab for an excellent piece of work, and for supporting my proposals.
Equipping the European consumer with unequivocal rights is the best way to bring about fair internal trade in the EU. (RO) Mr President, according to the EU 2020 Strategy, a high level of consumer protection guarantees high-quality products, but it also guarantees consumer confidence, thereby making the internal markets more effective.
In order to reduce the fragmentation of the EU internal market we need a stronger enforcement of consumer rights, and to enable consumers to take better decisions without putting enterprises at a disadvantage due to the new legislation.
The single internal market requires single European consumer rules.
I know the Hungarian Presidency will do everything in its power to bring this original proceeding to a positive conclusion.
We agree with the European Parliament in that there would be added value in having a list at European level.
For this reason, I would like to thank all the Members who have taken part in the discussion and who have made this compromise possible as a result of their contributions to the amendments.
I would like to thank the committee chair, Mr Harbour, for his patience with the rapporteur and the other members of the committee, together with Mr Lehne, the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
In the case of the Council, I would like Mrs Győri, a former Member of this House, to understand in her role as President-in-Office of the Council that the European Parliament may be obliged to amend the proposal which has thankfully been adopted by the Council on 24 January.
In some areas we would like to go further and, therefore, in the next few weeks we will be holding constructive discussions in order to find a positive solution.
I also support the proposed measures for facilitating cross-border trade, and the measures for clarifying EU rules on consumer protection in order to eliminate the current uncertainty.
in writing. - (CS) The proposed Consumer Rights Directive harmonises into one legal document a total of four directives dealing with off-premises contracts, unreasonable terms in consumer contracts, consumer protection in distance contracts and certain aspects of the selling of consumer goods and guarantees.
We must reject the attempt to stipulate a strict two-year guarantee period, because this provision would weaken consumer protection in many states, as these Member States would have to reduce the guarantee period in their national law, thereby weakening the position of the consumer.
in writing. - (SK) The lack of unity between existing laws and standards is often a disincentive for consumers and businesses who are considering participating in cross-border trade.
This would help to boost consumer confidence, and also to make businesses more interested in cross-border transactions.
The Commission's initial proposal was unacceptable because it intended to harmonise fully the rules concerning consumer rights, without systematically bringing them into line with the most favourable national legislation.
In other words, many Member States would have had to remove from their national legislation provisions that in fact granted better protection to consumers.
We also managed to enhance consumer rights on a whole range of points, in particular concerning information that has to be provided by the seller and provisions pertaining to the cooling-off period.
We cannot accept that the rules on unfair terms be fully harmonised, because that would deprive Member States of their ability to react when faced with commercial practices that change daily and sometimes involve serious risks for consumers.
We have to protect the consumers, but we also have to boost the economy.
in writing. - (NL) The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has for many years been consistently emphasising that consumer protection and the completion of the internal market are not conflicting objectives and that they, in fact, go hand in hand.
Existing shortcomings in the field of online or cross-border purchases will largely be eliminated.
However, if we want the best for our SMEs, we should not impose any unnecessary burdens on them.
in writing. - (IT) Our supermarkets are located further and further away from home and we are less and less likely to wander around the shelves, with a product in our hands, surrounded by the smells of fresh food and people's comments.
in writing. - Unfortunately the rights of consumers purchasing industrial or food products are better protected than those of users of transport, medical care or education services.
in writing. - (FI) The Commission's original basic proposal was fairly problematic from the point of view of both consumers and companies.
The rapporteur has done an excellent job, though, as a result of which important steps can be taken towards more consistent consumer protection in the development of the internal market without compromising on a high level of consumer protection.
We have to remember, however, that there are many other factors that are still hindering the growth in ecommerce in Europe.
I also want to stress that once this directive has been implemented, we can finally guarantee citizens in the European Union's 27 Member States that they can be confident of a high level of consumer protection.
At the same time, I want to congratulate the rapporteur for his fine work and because he added vital articles to this report which will regulate the rights of those who purchase goods and services on line.
I believe that it is right to guarantee a high minimum level of consumer protection throughout the European Union, provided that the Member States will also be able to impose more stringent regulations on their territory if they believe that the level of protection guaranteed by the EU is insufficient.
