This communication was actually requested by the Environment Council in its conclusions dated 15 March this year.
In other words, this would depend on redirecting means earmarked for other purposes, in particular, for reducing disparities in development between European Union Member States and the standard of living in these states, and would, for example, take place at the cost of development of the road infrastructure in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Member of the Commission. - Firstly, I would like to study whatever you have agreed today on energy efficiency in buildings.
I think there are so many other reasons - which climate sceptics should also agree with - that it is so important to do something with energy efficiency and energy technologies.
Subject: Action by the Commission on copyright Article 118 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which gives the Union competence to legislate in the field of intellectual property rights, stipulates that: 'in the context of the establishment and functioning of the internal market, the European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall establish measures for the creation of European intellectual property rights to provide uniform protection of intellectual property rights throughout the Union and for the setting up of centralised Union-wide authorisation, coordination and supervision arrangements'.
Moreover, that is not just true in the realm of cultural creation, which Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg knows so well.
I announced that when I appeared before you on 13 January, and this is precisely the principle that will guide my action.
The digital agenda adopted by the Commission on 19 May, at the dynamic instigation of my colleague and friend, Mrs Kroes, contains my roadmap, which covers copyright and the Internet.
Firstly, a proposal for a framework directive on collective copyright management.
I have a supplementary question concerning the 2008 Green Paper entitled 'Copyright in the Knowledge Economy', in which the Commission admits that the current system of optional exceptions to copyright protection put in place by the 2001 directive is not fulfilling its purpose, in other words, that it does not facilitate distribution of works protected by copyright and does not reflect a balance between the rights of authors and the rights of people who use their works.
I would like to ask what initiatives the Commission is planning to present in the near future in relation to these exceptions to copyright protection?
Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg, you also asked me about a point that I would like to confirm, about how the Commission will act; you would like it to make a statement on the use of Article 118 of the treaty.
Moreover, I would say that this Green Paper is very important and must enable us to ask many questions, and to move ideas forward.
Unfortunately, exceptions have been interpreted in different ways in different countries, which has resulted in different decisions on the same matter in different Member States.
We have adopted an approach that I believe is pragmatic and progressive, with these three initiatives that I mentioned on collective management, orphan works and the Green Paper, and it is therefore in that framework that we will deal with the concerns you express.
In order to ensure continuity of the regional development effort, the Commission decided in 2006 that the list of regions designated by Member States as part of the regional aid maps should apply through the whole period 2007 to 2013.
However, the Commission recognised in its guidelines for national regional aid that situations might arise where adjustments are necessary and, in accordance with point 104 of the guidelines, Member States were therefore offered the possibility to proceed to a mid-term review of the regional aid maps regarding regions designated under Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
However, that is the case according to the figures we had this morning.
Of course, many Member States and many regions are severely affected by the economic crisis, but maybe some Member States are finding that there are other ways and other means to handle this because, as we have seen, very few have asked for this review.
Member of the Commission. - Thank you, Mr Posselt, for your question on a very important subject.
My colleague, Commissioner Štefan Füle, has presented a matrix of cooperation and I am very much involved in this as well.
It does cover home affairs in order to see how we can help the Ukrainian authorities to develop on these matters and how we can deepen our cooperation further.
I wrote Parliament's report on the European Central Bank last year and one of the issues I raised was the significant increase in EUR 500 notes, and I think the EUR 200 notes as well, but significantly EUR 500 notes.
This question was put to you by me on 6 April 2010 and on 5 May 2010.
These crimes and these deaths are horrible, but the Commission's competence is limited to cross-border crime and to facilitating cooperation between national authorities and European authorities.
Since then, reciprocity has been established with most of these 13 countries, such as Japan, Panama, Singapore, Australia, Uruguay and Costa Rica, and recently the Commission concluded negotiations on a visa waiver with Brazil, and that will be submitted to you and to the Council very soon.
We are working in order to finalise this text as soon as possible and we are in constant contact with the Turkish authorities.
What I want to ask you is this: can this memorandum, this - let us say - readmission agreement between Greece and Turkey replace the agreement between the European Union and Turkey which is being negotiated?
We are, as I said, very close to wrapping these negotiations up.
There has been a very constructive atmosphere and I think this shows the necessity for the European Union of achieving this and also the interest on the Turkish side in reaching an agreement with us on re-admission.
Concerning Frontex and the border control of Turkey, they have reached an initial agreement on a draft working arrangement at a technical level.
A 2010 UN Joint Study has revealed that EU Member States colluded with and participated in activities relating to the CIA rendition programme and secret prisons.
I think what you said is somewhat encouraging in that it signals some strengthening in the oversight and mechanisms that the Commission will have for the future, but the fact is that there is the past.
Member of the Commission. - I think the work done by the European Parliament on this aspect has been extremely important in shining a light on the rendition programme and showing what has been happening.
Besides that, there is not much concrete that the European Commission can do, but we are happy to work with the European Parliament in order to continue to push for clarity and to make sure that this is not something that would be part of the European policy against terrorism. (PL) I would like to ask you, Mrs Malmström, for information on something which is, in my opinion, an important matter.
Member of the Commission. - The fight against terrorism is, of course, one crucial element in the policy of the European Union.
The European Union can support these initiatives, we can provide a certain legal framework, and we can make sure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is respected.
We have some funding, we can provide support for victims and we can encourage further cooperation.
One of the 10 supplementary guidelines proposed by the Commission calls on Member States to implement a series of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the principles of the Small Business Act.
The Commission has also drawn up a series of programmes that offer financial support to help small and medium-sized enterprises to gain access to capital that they need to develop their activities.
Finally, the new European micro-finance instrument, a joint initiative between the Commission and the European Investment Bank, is specifically directed at micro-enterprises that have difficulty obtaining ad hoc financing.
Access by small and medium-sized enterprises to credit has also improved, due to an increase in the sum of credit lines granted by the European Investment Bank to the intermediary banks that are responsible for reallocating the sums to small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of loans.
In 2009, the European Investment Bank granted a total amount of EUR 13 billion to financial institutions; the equivalent of a 55% increase over the previous year.
For your information, more than 75% of the EUR 21 billion granted in 2008-2009 reached the small and medium-sized enterprises to which they were destined, that is to say, 50 000 small and medium-sized enterprises all over the Union.
Finally, I shall take advantage of this debate to inform Parliament that as part of the first European SME Week, more than 1 200 national, regional and local events will be held, concerning a wide range of issues affecting this sector.
The SME week will take place between 25 May and 1 June, at the same time as the 2010 European Enterprise Awards ceremony, planned for 31 May in Madrid.
There is also a problem concerning the banks in our area - a point raised by the last speaker - because the European banking system is quite diversified: not all banks are the same.
We are taking strong action, with stimulus from the Commission, involving banks and financial operators and also the European Investment Bank, which sent two vice-presidents to take part in the debate.
The aim of this action is to achieve at least some of these objectives, in the conviction that small and medium-sized enterprises represent the best instrument today for emerging from the crisis and - as I said at the start of my speech - for preventing the economic and financial crisis from turning into a social crisis.
I apologise to colleagues for the rather shortened Question Time because the previous debate overran by 25 minutes.
