Rights of passengers in bus and coach transport (debate) The next item is the report by Antonio Cancian, on behalf of Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (00063/2010 - -.
Through this regulation, Europe's 70 million bus and coach passengers will also enjoy a range of rights that until now were much reduced or almost non-existent in comparison with other means of transport.
During negotiations on this important issue with three rotating presidencies, the goals we wanted to fulfil were as follows: a regulation that would protect non-discriminatory access to transport by bus and coach; a regulation that would bear in mind the particular characteristics of the sector, which involves small and medium-sized enterprises which could not have additional and excessive economic burdens imposed upon them; a regulation that would fill a regulatory vacuum that left the bus and coach transport sector in an anomalous position compared with other means of transport and would therefore ensure minimal guarantees for all passengers; a regulation that would protect the rights of persons with reduced mobility as much as possible, given the intransigent attitudes within the Council; a regulation that would bear in mind the needs of an ageing population for whom public transport will be an essential resource in the coming decades.
In fact, the regulation applies to all regular services, whether regional, national or international, over a distance greater than 250 km.
At distances of over 250 km, the regulation essentially provides for compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation or delay, and the rights of persons with disabilities or persons with reduced mobility.
Member States are also asked and urged to develop a future single ticket for each transport type and a single national body responsible for passengers' rights in all means of transport.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, it is a pleasure for me to take part in this debate on the proposal for a regulation on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport.
First of all, on behalf of the Council, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the European Parliament for its cooperation and for the sprit of compromise that allowed us to reach an agreement in the Conciliation Committee to the benefit of EU bus and coach passengers, in particular, as regards disabled persons and passengers with reduced mobility.
Therefore, I would like to pay tribute to all involved in the work on this legislative proposal and, in particular, to Vice-President Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Brian Simpson - Chair of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Mr Cancian - the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their work.
Last but not least, I would like to express my appreciation for the excellent work of the Belgian Presidency in securing the necessary support within the Council for the compromise reached in the Conciliation Committee.
In the Council's view, the main objective of the regulation is to grant rights to passengers travelling on regular services where the scheduled distance is equal to, or more than, 250 kilometres.
In the discussions between the three institutions, we were able to find mutually acceptable solutions on a number of difficult issues, namely the scope, the rights of passengers in the event of cancellations or delays, compensation and assistance in the event of accidents, provisions easing the transition to the new rules, and finally, the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
As you already know, the Council approved the joint text at its meeting on 31 January 2011.
Its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union can be expected in March. (IT) Mr President, lastly I should like to congratulate Mr Cancian on his excellent work.
Long negotiations on the night of 30 November 2010 at the Conciliation Committee led to a breakthrough and a compromise after more than two years of negotiations.
After the endorsement by the Council on 31 January, I invite you to also adopt this regulation and formally conclude the procedure.
The compromise text contains important achievements: it provides a set of basic rights for all passengers travelling by bus and coach.
Some may say that the scope of the regulation on bus and coach services of 250 km and more is too limited and they would have wished to see passengers in local transport protected too.
The process in the Council was not easy and, therefore, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Council for enabling us to reach a compromise at the last minute.
In my view, there are still a number of problems, particularly with regard to the implementation, where the regulations are not useful to citizens and where they are not clear enough to establish passengers' rights.
Well, yes it does, because we will now have in place a similar set of rights for buses and coaches to those that we currently have for other modes of transport.
It also moves us forward in our commitment to improving access to bus and coach travel for those people with reduced mobility, and indeed disabled people, throughout the European Union.
Finally, I think it is important for us to support this final agreement so that the rights for all the modes of transport are now in place.
Unfortunately, I am sufficiently familiar with these situations to be able to say that this 'if possible' generally results in it not being possible to provide an efficient solution for people with reduced mobility.
I was particularly disappointed when a restriction was placed on the formats used to make information available about bus and coach travel.
I am afraid that longer routes will be divided up and that routes of 500 kilometres will be broken down into two parts, so that there is no risk of having to grant passengers their rights.
With the inclusion of the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach, we have, in principle, now introduced passenger rights in all modes of transport.
Yet, even if our passengers in the European Union may get confused in the initial years, this still represents a step forward in ensuring passenger rights, and the fact that these rights for passengers travelling by bus and coach are the very last to be introduced shows that this was perhaps the most difficult step of all.
Mr President, the rights of passengers in all forms of transport have become an increasingly important topic of debate in the European Parliament in recent years.
It is nothing new that the Council has attempted to change the basic elements of the draft regulation fundamentally with regard to passenger rights in bus and coach transport.
In this context, I would like to thank the Vice President of the delegation, Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, the Chair of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Brian Simpson, and the rapporteur, Antonio Cancian, for a fine piece of work.
improving the position - even if it is not ideal - of people with disabilities and reduced mobility in connection with this mode of transport; 3.
Mr President, it is good that following the debate and coordination of positions, the final text can be regarded as a very satisfactory and well balanced compromise.
Taking account of the steady growth of this transport sector, the aim of this proposal is to establish EU-wide rights for the protection of passengers comparable to those in other modes of transport and to secure a level playing field between carriers from different Member States as well as the various modes of transport.
The regulation strengthens passengers' entitlement to compensation for death, including reasonable funeral expenses, or personal injury, as well as for the loss of or damage to luggage due to accidents.
Where travel is cancelled or delayed for more than 120 minutes, passengers shall have the right to compensation amounting to 50% of the ticket price, in addition to the reimbursement of the ticket price.
This is a good decision, congratulations! (DE) Madam President, improving the rights of passengers on regular bus and coach services is a desirable goal.
For example, passengers are entitled to up to two nights in a hotel if the departure of a regular bus service is delayed by more than 90 minutes.
For example, the Austrian federal railway company is liable for the number of hours that trains are delayed, which amounted to a total of 2 800 last year, when they arrive very late from Germany.
We must avoid inappropriate measures like this in future. (DE) Madam President, Mr Kallas, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the result of the conciliation procedure.
The regulation, which applies to all national and international services wherever the distance to be covered is equal to or greater than 250 km, also protects passengers using regular services over shorter distances.
I am referring, in particular, to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, who have been guaranteed non-discriminatory access to transport, the right to compensation in the event of loss of or damage to wheelchairs, as well as training on disabilities for bus and coach employees.
In terms of information for passengers, I think it would have been useful to provide them with information on connections with other means of transport, thereby also ensuring dialogue between bus and rail passenger transport services.
However, the definition of the scope of application, which is journeys longer than 250 km, means that three countries remain outside this European legislation.
Our group will therefore abstain. (PL) Madam President, today, the European Parliament is sending out a very positive message to passengers, taxpayers and European voters who use buses and coaches, including disabled persons.
People with reduced mobility have been granted more rights in this regard here.
However, not all buses can accept both disabled and able-bodied passengers at the same time, and not all buses can be converted to enable them to carry disabled people.
Thus, there is still a long way to go in this area if we want to achieve the highest possible level of equality.
Therefore, it is particularly important that we do not base our framework programme on the lowest, weakest standards.
I regret the fact that the scope applies only to journeys of 250 km.
We now have European rules on passenger rights for all transport modes.
Unfortunately, this cannot be said for the directive on coach passengers' rights, which, following a long conciliation procedure, ultimately distanced itself from the principles that had been requested by the European Parliament.
It is indeed good that we now have minimal fundamental rights, but it is unacceptable that the agreed 250 km route denies these rights in three states.
I believe everyone in this Chamber knows the importance of reliable and profitable bus and coach services to our local economies, and it is for this reason that I strongly support the introduction of the 250 km rule.
Of course, we need to protect the rights of passengers, and particularly those with disabilities, but the initial proposal - as Philip Bradbourn has said - if adopted, would have serious consequences for small transport providers.
I am pleased that common sense has prevailed in this case, and that urban and suburban transport will be protected from excessive regulation. (FI) Madam President, I want to thank everyone who has been involved in formulating the compromise and, in particular, the rapporteur and Mr Simpson, Chair of the Committee.
In the European Union of 27 countries of different sizes, there should have been some flexibility within countries so that all could be included in the provisions.
I live myself over 300 kilometres from our capital.
As a result, people will have to travel more than 250 km to be protected by this regulation.
This assistance is vital for disabled people, but the reality is that it will not be introduced straightaway and, more importantly, not everyone will be entitled to it. (DE) Madam President, it is a good thing that we now have passengers' rights across all means of transport, but these rights cannot conceal the fact that rail transport, which is environmentally friendly, has once again been put at a severe disadvantage.
Even though the draft regulation relates only to regular services on routes longer than 250 km, it brings new rules and better protection for bus passengers as well.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I should like to thank the honourable Members for their mostly positive comments.
Fine-tuning the legislation will, of course, be a long process for us, but I still think that the compromise we have achieved will probably be adopted in a future document and is a great opening.
Modest compromises will probably be needed; everything must be fine-tuned and must be implemented, but it is a very important opening and I hope that you will vote in favour of this regulation.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Cancian, ladies and gentlemen, I would only like to add two remarks, and comment on the very valuable debate that took place here.
I do not believe that this is the best of all possible worlds for travellers using bus and coach transport, but I believe that perhaps the main question we must ask ourselves is whether the situation will improve once the new legislation comes into effect.
I believe that we can answer this question with a definite yes; that bus and coach passengers will indeed enjoy more rights in the future, even if this is not a perfect compromise.
I believe that we took a significant step forward in this respect as well.
I feel that this is a well worked-out part of the draft and I trust that the legislation will bring about progress for these people, indeed, especially for these people.
Furthermore, I am convinced that the current debate on this draft legislation serves to provide citizens in the European Union with additional rights.
It is a balancing act between the need, on the one hand, to protect small and medium-sized enterprises - a topic we have discussed at length over the last few hours - involved in the bus and coach transport sector and, on the other, the need to protect the rights of persons with reduced mobility, disabilities, old-age pensioners, persons with temporary reduced mobility, and vulnerable users overall, in order that there may also be fewer disputes.
In the event of an accident, passengers will have the right to compensation of up to EUR 220 000 per person and EUR 1 200 for baggage.
In the event of a delay in excess of 120 minutes or the cancellation of a connection, transport providers must offer passengers the option of continuing the journey, rerouting the journey at no additional cost to the passenger or refunding the ticket price.
The agreement also protects the rights of people with disabilities and people with limited mobility.
in writing. - I support this compromise on the rights of bus passengers, guaranteeing a right to transport, a right to accessible travel information, the obligation for bus operators to organise mandatory disability awareness training for drivers, a right to compensation for damaged wheelchairs, a complaint-handling mechanism for all passengers, with independent national bodies to enforce the regulation and issue penalties.
For all bus and coach journeys of 250 km or more, there will be specific assistance, free of charge, for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, both at terminals and on board and, where necessary, transport free of charge for accompanying persons.
For blind and partially sighted people in particular, the provisions on accessible travel information and training of drivers in disability awareness would make a huge difference.
In view of the fact that these rights focus, in particular, on the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, this initiative deserves our support.
Our principal achievement is, of course, the matter of passengers' rights to compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, guarantees for passengers in the event of cancellations and delays, and guaranteed rights for disabled persons and passengers with reduced mobility (PRM).
During the negotiations, which lasted until late into the night, together with Mr Cancian, we succeeded in voting through a compromise making the provisions mandatory for distances of over 250 km.
It is regrettable that the proposal for a regulation only applies to national and crossborder bus and coach journeys that are at least 250 km long.
