Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote - (SK) According to government archives and available literature, the Communist regime in Slovakia sentenced 71 168 people in the years 1948 - 1989 for alleged political crimes.
However, I am deeply concerned about the situation of political prisoners in Cuba and I therefore urge the Council and the Commission to take effective measures necessary for the release of political prisoners and to support and ensure their work as protectors of human rights.
To the citizens of Cuba... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Mr President, I endorsed adoption of the motion for a resolution on Cuba.
Neither can I accept the fact that many of the ACP countries take an entirely uncritical view of the character and significance of the social and political system which has been built in Cuba.
Secondly, Amendment 2 tabled by the GUE/NGL Group is not in line with the position taken by the Spanish Presidency, which is looking to establish a consensus in the European Union in order to renew our framework for relations with Cuba, but not for a complete break with the Common Position, which is what the amendment was calling for.
Dr Darsí Ferrer was a significant personality in Havana, who was helping dissidents to obtain medicines.
I am delighted that we have adopted this resolution, which is a very strong resolution, and which also clearly challenges European authorities to continue their efforts for democratic change in Cuba. - Mr President, who would have thought 20 years ago, when the air of Europe was thick with the brick dust of falling walls and with cries of freedom, that the red flag would still today be flying over Havana and that Fidel Castro would be dying peacefully in bed on that sultry Caribbean island.
Sola mors tyrannicida est, says my countryman, Sir Thomas More: death is the only way to get rid of tyrants.
History will absolve us. - (NL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Cuba resolution because it is, on the whole, fairly critical of the totalitarian regime in Havana.
The SET Plan can be effective and credible only if it is properly financed, and this includes finance from private sources.
During a crisis this is extremely difficult, and would be harmful to Poland. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 and 28 February storm Xynthia assailed France.
If, as a result of this tragedy, the regions of Poitou-Charentes, Charente-Maritime, Pays de la Loire and Brittany request a change to their allocation of expenditure cofinanced by the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, the European Commission will have to examine these requests extremely favourably and very quickly.
There is a lot of scepticism about it - a lot of doubt - and that needs to be clarified, which will take a lot of the difficulties out of this debate on low-carbon technology.
Finally if I may say, on this, the anniversary of the declaration of independence of Lithuania and Estonia, I congratulate those countries on 20 years of independence.
The resolution by the European Parliament, the pretext for which is the death of the Cuban prisoner Orlando Zapata Tamayo, who died following a hunger strike, despite the efforts of the Cuban health services to restore his health, is a provocative and unacceptable attack on the socialist government and people of Cuba and forms part of the anti-communist strategy being directed by the EU and led by the European Parliament in a bid to overturn the socialist regime.
This is why I find it laudable and encouraging that all the groups in Parliament have been united in their condemnation of the abuses committed by the Cuban authorities against human rights, not to mention the constructive approach, receptive to dialogue, which the EU has decided to adopt towards Cuba.
As a guarantor of respect for human rights, the EU must get involved and take prompt action diplomatically so that the Zapata tragedy will never be repeated in Cuba, or anywhere else in the world for that matter.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in Cuba.
We reiterate the need for the immediate release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience.
in writing. - (PT) Orlando Zapata Tamayo died of starvation because he demanded to be treated as what he was: a political prisoner persecuted by a regime that, despite the changes in leadership, continues to rule over its citizens with an iron fist and prohibits them from associating or freely expressing themselves.
Especially the political decision makers who, following the lead of Mr Zapatero and Ambassador Moratinos, have changed European policy towards Cuba.
We voted against this resolution due to the political exploitation by the majority in Parliament of the death of Zapata Tamayo, following a hunger strike in a Cuban prison, despite having received medical treatment.
The representatives of capitalism in the European Parliament do not accept that fact.
They do not condemn the US embargo on Cuba, the immediate lifting of which has been sought on 18 occasions by the General Assembly of the United Nations.
in writing. - (PL) In the vote, today, I endorsed the resolution on the situation of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in Cuba.
The EU cannot have a romantic vision of the political regime in Cuba, which is a genuine communist dictatorship, based on the logic of a single party that violates human rights, oppresses its citizens, persecutes and eliminates political adversaries and imprisons countless people simply for the offence of having an opinion.
The death of Orlando Zapata was just one more case to shock the world that the European Parliament must condemn firmly, without hesitation and false justifications.
The Members who voted in favour of this text are those who time and again refused to table a resolution in this Parliament condemning the coup that took place in Honduras.
For more than 50 years, the United States of America has maintained an economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, in flagrant violation of international law and with severe repercussions for the economy and living conditions of Cubans.
In spite of that, the Cuban Government has continued to guarantee its citizens universal access to healthcare and education.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on Cuba, as it is important for the EU, too, to clearly express the idea that there is an urgent need for democratisation in the country, which is still under Communist rule.
in writing. - (ES) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on Cuba because, as I said in the debate yesterday, regardless of our respective positions with regard to Cuba, the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo is a regrettable occurrence in itself.
in writing. - (SV) The USA has had a trade embargo against Cuba for 48 years.
On 29 October 2009, 187 of the UN member states voted to lift the embargo.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on investment in the development of low carbon technologies (SET Plan), because, in order to effectively tackle the economic crisis, investing in those new technologies that have the greatest potential for job creation should be a priority.
I believe that these investments could create new opportunities for the development of the EU's economy and competitiveness.
The SET Plan presented by the Commission proposes investment in R&amp;D to develop efficient and sustainable clean energy technologies with low carbon emissions, making it possible to ensure the necessary reduction of emissions without jeopardising European industries, thus making a commitment, which we believe to be serious, to sustainable development.
New energy policies, particularly within the context of the general crisis, must not lose sight of economic efficiency and must not, in any way, jeopardise the economic sustainability of European nations, without this meaning poorer environmental performance.
The SET Plan seeks to accelerate the development and roll-out of low-carbon technologies.
The development and implementation of low-carbon technologies is extremely important not only for environmental reasons - which include the need to reduce atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide - but also for energy reasons, considering the inevitable gradual shortage and eventual depletion of fossil fuel reserves, on which humanity is highly dependent.
in writing. - Mr President, Sustainable and effective low-carbon technologies are the core essentials in the huge task of decarbonisation we in the EU, and globally, are facing.
It is due to this fact that I welcomed the rapid process in which Parliament drafted a resolution on the topic, giving a clear indication to the commission and the council that the SET Plan is timely and important.
I would therefore state that it is imperative for Europe to make a prompt response to these events, namely activation of the European Solidarity Fund, thus showing the EU's solidarity with all those affected.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the major natural disasters which have taken place in the autonomous region of Madeira and the effects of the storm Xynthia in Europe.
They have hit regions in Portugal, western France, various regions in Spain, in particular the Canary Islands and Andalusia, as well as Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands.
In western France the storm caused the death of roughly 60 people and the disappearance of a number of people, not to mention the destruction of several thousand homes.
The European Commission can provide financial support to the affected regions through the European Union's Solidarity Fund.
It is of paramount importance that there is a sense of solidarity between Member States in the event of major natural disasters.
On 20 February, a unique meteorological phenomenon occurred on Madeira causing, at least, 42 deaths, with 32 people missing, 370 homeless and around 70 injured.
This storm also isolated several regions in Spain, particularly in the Canary Islands and Andalusia.
The storm that devastated Madeira on 20 February caused enormous human and material losses in the region of Madeira.
I welcome the motion for a resolution in which the European Commission is asked, as soon as it receives a request from the Portuguese Government, to initiate the action necessary to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF) in the most urgent and flexible way and to the greatest possible extent.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report and was very happy that it was passed by the parliament.
The natural disaster that affected Madeira on 20 February has left a desolate scene, human suffering and widespread destruction, with devastating consequences for the respective economic and production structures.
One week later, another natural disaster - storm Xynthia - had devastating consequences on a region in western France and several regions of Spain.
I endorsed this motion for a resolution on the action to be taken in the wake of the devastating and deadly passage of storm Xynthia on our territory because, beyond trying to lay blame, we must above all show European solidarity so as to support the victims of this disaster, which struck several European countries.
Not only must we harness the Solidarity Fund, but this aid must also come from the Cohesion Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
in writing. - (PL) Ladies and gentlemen, I endorsed the motion for a resolution on the major natural disaster in the autonomous region of Madeira and the effects of the storm 'Xynthia' in Europe.
In recent weeks, several EU regions have been hit by natural disasters: Madeira, then western France and various regions of Spain.
I also voted in favour of the amendment supporting the proposal made by Mr Barnier in 2006 to create a European civil protection force.
Other regions in Europe have been equally devastated by the impact of storm Xynthia.
The EUSF was established with the aim of delivering urgent financial aid to Member States affected by natural disasters.
Thousands of people have also been left homeless.
I therefore supported the measures proposed in the joint motion for a resolution for the EU to come to the aid of these countries and regions financially, for which reason I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of European Parliament motion for a resolution.
The European Union, which has 27 Member States and half a billion citizens, must tackle not only the emergence of climate and environmental change, but must also look after its citizens and guarantee them the best possible conditions for survival after a crisis.
I would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the families of the victims of the natural disasters in Madeira and of the victims of storm Xynthia.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament motion for a resolution which calls on the Commission to consider the possibility of increasing the community cofinancing rate for regional operational programmes.
It would be equally apt to review the financing planned for 2010 earmarked for specific projects, in accordance with the general rules on the Structural Funds for 2007-2013.
