State of European asylum system, after the recent decision of the European Court of Human Rights (debate) The next item is the debate on the state of the European asylum system, following the recent decision of the European Court of Human Rights.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 21 January on the case of M.S.S.
versus Greece and Belgium clearly showed that the EU urgently needs to establish a common European asylum system and that we need to support Member States in meeting their obligation to provide adequate international protection.
The new Dublin regulation must put a stop to mass returns to the first Member State.
Mr President, the ruling by the European Court of Human Rights makes it clear that Belgium and Greece have contravened Articles 3 and 13 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
In other words, those arrested during that period, based on the crisis we are facing, will need to wait until 2016 or 2017 for Turkey to take them back.
Aside from this particular situation, however, this decision more generally calls into question the European asylum system as a whole, particularly regarding one of its fundamental components - the Dublin regulation - and its main premise, the equivalence of national asylum systems within the Union.
This decision shows how, paradoxically, the common European asylum system has created a kind of injustice, both for asylum seekers and for the Member States.
Nor do all the Member States have the same procedures.
This is urgent, Commissioner. (MT) Mr President, the European Court decision is not so much a condemnation against Belgium or Greece as it is as condemnation against the Dublin regulation, because it was that very Dublin regulation that allowed Belgium to transfer an Afghan person back to Greece.
Therefore, in the wake of the decision handed down by the European Court of Justice, it is now clear that when a European country transfers an asylum seeker back to another European country that is under enormous pressure, it goes against the European Convention on Human Rights.
This more or less works and, independent of the ruling, already obliges Member States to ensure that fundamental rights are respected.
The Greek Government is working with its action plan.
Nevertheless, Member States executed only 2 251 of these transfers, that is a bit less than 14%.
