Difficult monetary, economic and social situation of Eurozone countries (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the difficult monetary, economic and social situation of eurozone countries.
The debate concerns the economic situation, the monetary situation and the social situation.
It is therefore reasonable for the stimuli not to be abandoned during 2010.
The treaties talked about economic and monetary union, and it was described as such, but monetary union was implemented before economic union.
The Greek authorities and the Greek people are aware of the challenge in front of them.
On 15 January, the government presented an ambitious stability programme intended to tackle these issues.
As regards the stability programme, the Commission fully supports Greece in its efforts to redress a difficult economic and fiscal situation.
The measures and policy intentions outlined in this programme are an important step in the right direction.
As far as the recommendation on the excessive deficit procedure is concerned, our recommendations as regard measures to be taken this year rely fully on the measures announced by the Greek authorities in their stability programme.
The Greek authorities are invited by the Commission in our proposal to the Council to present by mid-March a detailed implementation report announcing adopted measures and the calendar of the announced measures.
In this context, the Commission welcomes the announcement on 2 February of further measures, notably a nominal public sector wage freeze and an increase in excise duties on fuels to safeguard the budgetary target for this year, as well as the Greek authorities' readiness to adopt and swiftly implement additional measures if needed.
Timely and rigorous implementation of the budgetary measures and of structural reforms - and both fiscal measures and structural reforms are contained in the programme adopted in Greece by the Greek authorities - together with the tight monitoring of the situation, is the key to finding an adequate solution to the present tensions in our markets.
That is why I call on the Council today, and not only where Greece is concerned, to commit itself more widely and fully to much stronger coordination of monetary policy at the informal summit meeting this coming Thursday and at the Ecofin meeting next week.
The Spanish Presidency can also set a good example in its own country, because the situation there is also urgent.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to offer my heartfelt support to the way in which the European Commission is dealing with Greece.
The first is that what Mr Barroso has presented to us as Europe 2020 is lacking in substance.
If there is further speculation against individual countries, we must be in a position to make credit available under average European rating terms.
The countries have actually grown apart from each other in the last ten years.
This situation could have been avoided by a very strong intervention by the European Commission and the European Central Bank.
I am absolutely against the fact that we are bringing in the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, to solve problems in the euro area.
In actual fact, leaving aside the Greek case, which is at stake, I believe that we need to review all the tools of economic governance of the euro area and, in particular, the Stability and Growth Pact.
I should therefore like to know what proposals both the Spanish Presidency and the Commission have put on the table in order, of course, to reaffirm the Stability and Growth Pact and, above all, to integrate it into a more comprehensive system.
Also, what role can fiscal cooperation between ourselves play in enabling the Member States to regain some room for manoeuvre that will allow them to make up their deficits, not only by reducing expenditure, but also by regaining some room for manoeuvre so as to increase their revenues?
The EU, through the ECB, cannot impose fiscal criteria on these Member States.
The Stability Pact no longer exists; the crisis abolished it, as proven by the deficits and rate at which public debt is increasing in Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Great Britain and Greece.
Bearing in mind, therefore, that the European Union, according to the 2008 statistics, produces approximately 38% of global wealth, I think that, in the present monetary crisis, the European Union failed or did not wish to exert its powers of economic intervention on the global financial markets.
I welcome this, because it would mean closing the door on everything that we have been requesting for so many years, namely economic governance of the euro area.
What I also see is that the situation within our European apparatus today is such that if you are outside the euro area, you can be 'helped', whereas if you are inside it, things are much more complicated.
The budget deficit is approaching 13%.
Unfortunately, Spain, Portugal and Italy also have high budget deficits.
That must not happen, because we would then be rewarding bad policy with a bonus.
The Stability and Growth Pact clearly indicates how countries must act in the event of a crisis and the pact primarily indicates what must be done before a crisis occurs, namely by putting a strict budget and spending policy in place in good time.
Debt and deficits are the creations of the capitalist system, of the Treaty of Maastricht and, of course, of the Lisbon Strategy.
Then there is Spain, which, despite high unemployment, has legalised some 700 000 illegal immigrants, who have also brought their families here - and there is presently 20% unemployment in Spain!
Mr President, this policy of immigration must stop. (EL) Madam President, there can be no doubt that Greece, like other countries in the euro area, faces a huge public deficit and debt and, as you know and as the Commissioner mentioned, the Greek Government has already tabled a fully substantiated and ambitious but realistic programme to deal with them.
The stability of the euro must, of course, remain the crucial and overarching goal.
That also applies to the measures for consolidating the budgets of the individual Member States of the euro area.
These measures are not only in the interests of the countries themselves, but also of the countries that are not as badly affected.
However, we must also consider carefully what measures are necessary and what measures might perhaps be less effective in helping the countries out of this crisis.
In my view, these countries have, in the past, failed to make important reforms, for which they are now paying the price.
The problems are therefore largely of their own making and therefore need to be solved in future by the relevant countries themselves.
There is even an article in the Treaty of Lisbon and the Treaty of Maastricht that prohibits the European Union from assisting Greece.
I am emphasising the word 'countries', because the Spanish Presidency sounded like it was talking about outer space, and Commissioner Almunia only mentioned Greece.
The Commission has just been put in office not to continue doing what it has done before but to learn lessons and initiate a new phase.
That is what I expect and I trust them to do it. (PT) Madam President, in this debate, it was fundamental to ensure that the European Union would make a break with its monetarist policies and the blind criteria of the Stability Pact.
It was fundamental to back social progress in order to give priority to the resolution of the problems of unemployment and poverty, in order to support production and the creation of jobs with rights, in order to guarantee economic and social cohesion, in order to implement budgetary support measures for those countries in the most serious situations, particularly by advancing funds without the need for the national governments to match them.
Commissioner Almunia insisted on the same policies and the same neoliberal recipes, attempting to make the same people as always bear the consequences of the bad policies of the European Union, including, Commissioner, your own responsibility for the sad and lamentable statements which you made regarding Greece, Spain and Portugal, which, in the case of my own country, Portugal, for example, resulted in the unleashing of a speculative attack.
We need to combine the Europe 2020 strategy with the other strategies.
I am therefore in favour of the finance ministers implementing the three-point plan proposed by Mr Almunia on 22 December 2004 for strengthening Eurostat as quickly as possible.
These sensible, necessary measures have been obstructed for five years.
We need to raise the status of Eurostat and we need to review the statistics of the Member States and to coordinate the statistics of the ECB and the European Union.
We need an opening balance sheet for the European Commission, we need to review the finances of the Member States on the basis of common criteria set by the Commission and we need a steering committee between the Commission, Eurostat, the ECB, the EIB and the Member States for national action plans.
The crisis has caused a major decline in economic activity, huge job losses and a considerable deterioration in public finances.
We need to ensure that they do not cause us to forget our serious economic interdependency and our major commitments.
Someone described international recovery using the letters LUV: L for Europe, U for the United States and V for the emerging countries.
The fundamental priority should be to increase the potential for growth of our economy. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the weakness and the recent crisis in certain euro area countries are not just the result of the difficulties of Greece, Portugal and Spain, but also those of the Union itself.
Firstly, we need to expedite supervision reform and to create a system that actually works and does not merely replicate the existing authorities, which have proven to be ineffective in predicting and managing the recent crises, and to move beyond the bureaucratic logic, which, up to now, has been adopted to deal with systemic crises.
In the case of the current crisis situation in several euro area countries, the European Union has a political, social and moral duty to take action. (RO) Certain countries in the euro area are currently facing severe financial problems, illustrated by the size of public debts and budget deficits, which are much higher than the threshold permitted by the Stability and Growth Pact.
However, this failed to take into account the need to increase public debt when the financial situation is worsening at macro-economic level, and it is further affected by the exponential rise in private debt.
The rapid decline in the state of finances in certain Member States poses a threat to both the stability of the euro and cohesion at European Union level.
This is the wrong message.
The United States Government had just presented a budget showing a USD 1 600 billion deficit.
What I know is that this lesson must be learned for the future, because in this way, we can have better economic union, backing Europe to a greater extent in order to create solidarity and understand that the situations in the various Member States are completely different and are not comparable.
It should, after all, be said that the euro has been incredibly successful in weathering the most severe financial crisis.
The Ministry of National Defence has a budget of EUR 6 billion, down 6.63%.
Many Member States and the Council have expended less energy in recent years on budgetary discipline than on watering down this important agreement.
The economies of Greece, Spain and Portugal recorded large budget deficits in 2009 due not only to the global economic crisis, but also to the inadequate measures implemented by their own national governments.
This means that our budget deficit must drop below 3%. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for your kind words about the measures being taken by the Greek Government.
However, the rules in my view have not been effective.
I wish you well. (DE) Madam President, despite all the criticism that people like me have expressed about particular deplorable states of affairs in the European Union, we were always very much in favour of the introduction of the euro.
However, what we are seeing now is a massive loss of confidence by savers and, in particular, by citizens in countries in which the budgetary criteria have, to a certain extent, been met.
I ask this with my own country, Austria, entirely in mind, where similar rumours are currently circulating in the same way they did about Greece a few years ago. (LV) Madam President, the attacks by speculators on Greece, Spain or Portugal are not the cause of the problem, but its consequence.
The result is either bankruptcy for the government, or, as we are currently experiencing, attacks on the currency by speculators.
It is proposing that there should not only be monetary union, but that economic union should also have an important place in the European Union, which is, furthermore, what the Treaty of Lisbon states.
Madam President, thank you very much to all the Members of this House who have spoken during the debate for the references that they have made to the policies, attitudes and proposals of the European Commission, of which both I and my colleague, Olli Rehn, have taken note.
I agree with those of you who have said that it is not only about implementing a fiscal and budgetary policy that is in line with our rules, but that there is a need to go further, because there are other imbalances that put growth, employment and the situation of public finances at risk.
It is true that all of our countries are members of the International Monetary Fund, but we can and must do it ourselves.
If we are coordinated enough, if we have political will, if we use the tools provided by the treaty, if we carry through our declarations of intent and major objectives to their ultimate conclusion, we have more than sufficient capacity and tools to do what we need to do in order to tackle difficult situations such as the one that we are currently facing.
Eurostat receives notifications from the Member States.
Based on that programme, as I said before, we made the recommendations on 3 February.
This is everyone's responsibility: it is the responsibility of the Member States, the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
Finally, the Council meeting on 11 February, the day after tomorrow, which was mentioned by Mr López Garrido, among others, is a very important meeting.
I would like to hear a clear demand to each and every one of the Member States, in this case starting with Greece, to meet their obligations, and to implement the measures that they have committed to as members of economic and monetary union and the recommendations given to them by the economic and monetary union authorities.
However, we also know of Member States which, either owing to incompetence or intentionally, were wrong about their deficits.
This system should function almost in real time.
The financial situation in some countries in the euro area, which has been under consideration today, clearly shows the risks that are caused by moving away from the agreements in the Stability and Growth Pact.
We must certainly draw serious conclusions from this whole problem, and in every country, both within the euro area and outside it, the way out entails recognising our problems honestly and providing our own measures for getting out of the difficulties, and additionally, solidarity from the European Union.
Unfortunately, more countries are experiencing problems, and the European currency now faces its greatest challenge since it was created.
I agree with those who have spoken before me that what is needed is stronger coordination of Member States' economic policies.
