EU external strategy on Passenger Name Record (PNR) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the European Union's external strategy on the Passenger Name Record (PNR).
The current state of affairs is as follows.
It also presented three draft negotiating mandates for the conclusion of agreements with Canada, the United States and Australia, all three with identical content.
Therefore, the Council held discussions immediately, on 7 October, regarding these drafts - the method and timing of the three mandates - and decided that all three mandates should indeed have identical content, that the Council would adopt them at the same time, that they would start at the same time, and that the negotiations with the United States, Canada and Australia should start by December of this year at the latest.
Looking at the content of the mandates and of the PNR agreement, the Council is aware that the most important thing with regard to the three agreements is ensuring a sufficiently high level of data protection.
Therefore, I believe that the European Parliament is right to impose stringent data protection requirements.
Therefore, in the text of the negotiating mandates, the Council has also placed a strong emphasis on the importance of Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Back data can be used only reactively, current data can be used in real time, and risk profiles, in particular, will be drawn up for proactive use.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, on 21 September, the Commission issued a package of proposals on the exchange of passenger name records data with third countries and that consisted of a communication on EU external PNR strategy with some principles, as you requested in your resolution from May earlier this year.
There were also three recommendations on negotiating directives for new PNR agreements with Canada, Australia and the US.
We can use that as a method for communicating with third countries, but also define our own policy with that.
The EU track concerns the negotiations between the EU and the US regarding conditions for access to the US and, indeed, to the visa waiver programme.
Madam President, tomorrow's vote on Passenger Name Records would not have been necessary had we here in Parliament been taken more seriously and kept better informed by the Commission and the Council on the subject of the forwarding of data by the EU and its Member States to third countries since the SWIFT decision.
I also ask that the competence for decisions on these matters be set at a general European level and for the opportunity to take into account that we may prefer to conclude PNR agreements with Canada and Australia.
Madam President, in a globalised world, terrorism and crime are, unfortunately, also globally organised, and therefore we know that we need to cooperate internationally and need to exchange data.
I think that this example shows that, if the three main institutions can reach an agreement, we can speak with a single voice on behalf of 500 million citizens - and that is a very powerful voice.
Finally, the European Commission refers to good relations with third countries, but these agreements cannot be seen as instruments of international diplomacy.
It is therefore important to make it clear that a uniform solution should be found to this with the contracting parties at European level.
We must also be certain that all arrangements with third countries are mutual so that we too can benefit.
There is also one thing that I believe we should not forget in this process, which we have, at times, forgotten, namely, that these data are personal data.
It would also be a good thing if the new framework agreement were to amend the current bilateral agreements, which are incorrect and which, in many cases, infringe the personal data protection rights of our citizens. (NL) Madam President, the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) is very much in favour of measures that could help in the fight against terrorism, and Islamic terrorism in particular.
The first is that these data be used only in the fight against terrorism.
For this reason, we must welcome the communication from the Commission on the global approach to transfers of PNR data to third countries and its recommendations that the Council authorises the opening of negotiations in this area with Australia, Canada and the United States, as both instruments take up Parliament's concerns regarding security, defending fundamental rights and protecting personal data.
We therefore call on you to incorporate this commitment to strengthen the guarantee of privacy and fundamental human rights into future air security actions, into data protection for the Passenger Names Record, into the review of security checks, and into the current debate on the introduction of security scanners in airports. (NL) Madam President, we are well aware that we are always running behind society somewhat.
The fact that the format now includes civil rights requirements to be observed by a Passenger Name Record (PNR) agreement is very sensible, but it does show that we keep running behind developments.
In this House, we are all very committed to the safety of our fellow citizens.
The agreement includes a controversial comparison between this data and data from databases on immigrants.
It will therefore be essential for us to avoid such controversial errors when formulating these agreements in the future, and I hope that the Commission will manage that, as we definitely cannot consider the current document to be satisfactory, particularly in the area of personal data protection. (IT) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the significant contributions that have so far been offered by my fellow Members, there is no doubt that the need to reach a reasonably quick understanding on defining this framework agreement on the Passenger Name Record constitutes a strong stimulus from Parliament.
It is our duty to protect our citizens against terrorist attacks and organised crime.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament's resolution emphasises that PNR data cannot be used for profiling.
It is important that a balance is struck between protecting privacy and fundamental rights and the need to combat terrorism.
Although we are not talking about personal data, I basically believe that it is ultimately a matter of citizens' right to privacy.
Transfers of PNR data to third countries must be carried out on a case-by-case basis and only with the European Union's explicit consent. (DE) Madam President, the way that the Commission has put its global approach to transfers of passenger name record data to third countries up for discussion is to be welcomed, particularly before negotiations with third countries get under way.
However, I am pleased that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission are on the same wavelength and have the same balance at the back of their minds: a balance between data protection and security for which we all bear responsibility.
Afterwards, there comes the difficult job of the actual negotiations; we must ensure that we do not deviate too far from our mandate and that we continue to define that balance ourselves at all times.
In addition, the Council's conclusions rightly state that we set very great store by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - indeed, comments have been made on the subject - and we must continue to guarantee these.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 11 November 2010, at 12:00.
In the resolution, Parliament therefore emphasises that people's right to access information and their right to privacy must be safeguarded.
To ensure effective cooperation between the institutions, the Commission should update the European Parliament at every stage of the negotiations on personal data protection.
The motion for a resolution on the Passenger Name Record (PNR) is welcome, since it seeks to promote an agreement between the United States and the European Union based on a balance between security and data protection.
In recent years, more and more fundamental rights have been curtailed in the name of combating terror.
The Commission has presented a range of proposals on the exchange of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data with third countries and on the opening of negotiations on the agreements with Australia, Canada and the US.
The resolution uses the pretext of terrorism and the 'need for anti-terrorist cooperation' between the EU and the United States to justify keeping general records on all passengers travelling from the EU to the United States, Canada and Australia.
