If you suspect, Mr Oettinger, that there are stress tests that will not produce the desired result because the systems to be tested may not survive the test, then why does the Commission not intervene straight away to close these plants?
This is the case in all Member States, including Hungary.
The government there has now issued a new draft constitution that is due to be adopted in mid-April.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - President of the Commission, I understand your answer, but you know that all 27 Member States have to modify their constitutions in accordance with European values.
It is important that you also oblige Hungary, even after its adoption of the new constitution, to apply these principles also.
As you know, Mr Verhofstadt, we have a very good record on that matter.
In other Member States where there have been issues of non-discrimination, the Commission has also taken a very strong stance.
It was very important to agree on what we called the European Semester, because Member States have now agreed unanimously that matters of economic policy of one may also have an effect on the others, and that those of the others have an effect on their own policies.
We are making it clear that all the efforts of fiscal consolidation, all the efforts of structural reform, are in fact for growth - for sustainable growth, for inclusive growth - which is the goal of the European Union.
It is in the light of these priorities that we are going to judge the national programmes that are now going to be presented and on which we are going to work in partnership with our Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr Barroso, within the last week the Commission has set down limits based on a regulation that is always triggered whenever problems arise with radioactivity that affect food imports, in this case from Japan.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I will, of course, happily respond to Mrs Harms' question even if I thought there was an agreement to have two halves to the debate today - a general part and then one on Japan.
Customs ensures that food and feed items can only enter the European Union market if there is assurance that they are safe for consumption.
Given the stricter levels that are being imposed in Japan we, the Commission, have decided that it would be correct to amend the present levels in force since 25 March as an additional safeguard measure pending further scientific analysis of the levels established under Euratom Regulation 3954/87.
President of the Commission. - Ms Harms, we have to decide on those matters on the basis of scientific evidence.
So precisely because of these differing standards between Europe and Japan, we have decided that on a transitional basis we are going to implement the standards of Japan.
The levels permitted are lower, which means that their standards are higher.
We are going to implement this for Japan.
In the meantime we are going to consult the committee of experts at national level and at European level so that we can, if appropriate, establish common uniform rules for all imports.
We have heard a lot about economic governance in recent days and weeks, perhaps too much for my own taste, but very little about growth and competitiveness.
I believe you will agree, Mr Zahradil, that 27 different bureaucracies are worse than one bureaucracy.
My question relates to Euratom.
We are now in a position where those in favour of nuclear energy and those against - because there are Member States in Europe with different positions - at least agree that we have to upgrade all the conditions for nuclear safety.
President of the Commission. - We have already made some proposals on that matter, namely the so-called 20-20-20 agenda where, for instance, the Member States agreed unanimously - because unanimity is required in that matter - the 20% targets for renewables by 2020.
This is something we can discuss, but I can tell you that from my point of view, from my consultations, they now believe that they should commit to reaching that goal first.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr Barroso, I am confused.
I got a letter on 1 April from the noble Baroness Ashton telling me that the EU had provided more than EUR 75 million in humanitarian assistance and that, although the situation remains uncertain, the EU has offered to assist in fostering dialogue.
President of the European Commission. - The Member States unanimously agreed that Gaddafi should go.
That was probably what Lady Ashton was referring to.
However, I also agree with what President Van Rompuy said: without this position taken by the European Council, the decisions of the Security Council could not have been made.
I wonder whether Mr Barroso would agree with me that appointing as Head of your new Foreign Office and in charge of external security a woman who has been an extreme left-wing, life-long passivist, the former treasurer of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, somebody who has proved to be incompetent in the job, was not in fact one of the better decisions of the European Union.
Article 140 of the Treaty states that Member States with a derogation will be examined every two years on the progress being made in achieving economic and monetary union.
President of the Commission. - As I have already said in answer to another colleague, deciding on the energy mix is a matter that lies within the national sphere of responsibility.
As you know, there are Member States in the European Union that have nuclear energy, for instance your country, Spain, and others that do not have nuclear energy, for instance my country, Portugal.
We have if fact now received new mandates as regards issues of nuclear safety.
I believe the 20% target that was unanimously agreed is reachable if the Member States act with real determination in implementing all the measures that they can take to achieve what is a very important goal for the European Union and indeed for the world. (LV) Mr President, the world has now been following events in Japan with compassion and concern for several weeks.
In our thoughts, we are with the people who are working day and night in the nuclear reactors at Fukushima in order to prevent a nuclear disaster.
I should like to hear the view of Mr Barroso on whether the Commission supports the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement during the forthcoming Japan-EU summit on 25 May, and, if not, then why not, and when could negotiations be opened?
Yesterday I reaffirmed to the Prime Minister of Japan that we are ready to work with Japan, provided it addresses these matters constructively.
President of the Commission. - In fact the European Council made the decision to try to promote the highest possible standards, not only in Europe but with our partners.
For instance, Commissioner Oettinger has already been in contact with Russian partners.
President of the Commission. - In the response to this crisis, I am proud that the Commission, represented by Kristalina Georgieva, who is here with us, was the first to send a high-level delegation to Japan after the terrible events there.
We have provided both political and moral support to Japan: our system has been working in an efficient manner.
Even if Japan is a very rich country which is very able to face these kinds of crises, as a matter of solidarity we are providing humanitarian aid of EUR 15 million.
Of this, EUR 10 million comes from the European Union budget, arranged by the Commission, the remaining EUR 5 million or so comes from the Member States.
New NPPs containing experimental reactors will be located in the Kaliningrad enclave in between two Member States and only 23 kilometres away from the eastern EU border in Belarus.
President of the Commission. - A good example I can give you is that of our working relations with Ukraine.
So, certainly, we are going to accord very high priority to nuclear safety in our relations with third countries, including some that you have mentioned. (PT) Mr President, the crisis in Japan has given further meaning to our collective commitment to creating a 202020 Strategy.
The very lack of resources in many of our Member States because of cuts in investment budgets means the European Union must not give up investing in growth in Europe on this scale.
I think that those men are heroes; they have our greatest respect and admiration for their courage and their generosity.
So I think it is more than appropriate that we here send, from Strasbourg, from the European Parliament, a message of respect and admiration to the Japanese people and specifically to those heroes who are sacrificing their lives for the good of all Japanese people.
Madam, I also agree with the President of the European Commission. (EL) Mr President, the area of northeast Japan will remain contaminated for the next 300 to 400 years and life will never regain its natural rhythm.
Some of the countries which are now members of the European Union and which were candidate countries some time ago were - according to the negotiations - obliged to revise their safety standards and, in some cases, shut down certain nuclear energy installations.
We will certainly put the question to our Turkish partners - I already mentioned that in the previous statement - and not only to Turkey, but to all the partners that are close to our borders.
For this reason, President Barroso, I would ask you the following question: Will you press for uniform, mandatory European standards and will you finally ensure that the EU environmental standards, in particular the environmental impact assessments, are implemented correctly, and that sanctions are taken against those who break the rules?
As you know, the Treaties give the Member States some national competence in terms of energy, but we are also using the competence we have.
To avoid a contradiction between their standards and our standards, we have decided - as I announced today - on some kind of harmonisation, at least with Japan, while we are reviewing scientifically the global standards we can implement for any kind of imports to the European Union.
President Barroso, thank you for your presence here in plenary with us, for all your answers, for the very lively discussion, and chiefly for your words on the very important EU response to the tragedy in Japan.
