Around 300 000 workers took part in the demonstration, organised by the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers (CGTP).
The arrest of the orthodox Christian patriarch that took place on Christmas Day because he was celebrating Mass in a church in the occupied part of Cyprus was not enough, and neither was the arrest of nine journalists on 3 March enough to persuade Baroness Ashton to take action over Turkey in agreement with President Van Rompuy.
We must have the courage and strength to make it clear to that government once and for all that either it must comply with the observance of treaties, human and civil rights and freedoms, or the European Union must have the courage to break off all diplomatic and trade ties. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, less than two weeks ago, on 11 and 12 March, the presidium of the Jobbik Movement for a Better Hungary held transferred meetings in Transylvania, Székely Land and Târgu Mureş.
I gave a lecture in Valea lui Mihai, where the desire of the approximately 3 to 400 000 Hungarians living in Partium to preserve their identity as Hungarians and have their children educated in the Hungarian language showed itself with elemental force.
This concerns so many people that I would like to ask Parliament to find an occasion where we could schedule a sitting, an agenda item, where we could discuss the matter of the autonomy of both Székely Land and Érmellék. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in commemoration of the revolution and war of independence of 1848-49, Hungarians all over the world celebrated their national holiday on 15 March.
Our poet of world renown, Sándor Petőfi, gave his life for freedom in 1849.
On 20 March, the anniversary of his death, we commemorated another great figure of the war of independence, Governor Lajos Kossuth, father of Hungarian parliamentary democracy, who spent half of his life in foreign exile.
On 14 March, a community club of some kind in Košice unveiled a bust of János Esterházy - a war criminal condemned to death in 1947 for collaborating with fascism.
They unveiled a bust of a criminal who welcomed the fascist troops invading Košice.
Everyone can also clearly see the lack of equality between the partners in this contract.
I think that the Chamber in which we are holding our debates today is the most appropriate place to remind Members of the fact that on 17 March the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania amended its Education Act.
