Agreement between the EU and the USA on the processing and transfer of Financial Messaging Data from the European Union to the United States for purposes of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the recommendation on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on the processing and transfer of Financial Messaging Data from the European Union to the United States for purposes of the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme (05305/2010 - C7-0004/2010 - 2009/0190(NLE)).
As you know, this did not happen, and on 30 November, the Council made a decision on the matter and adopted the SWIFT agreement.
This is important.
Without a doubt, the targeted exchange and use of data for counter-terrorism purposes is, and will remain, necessary, but let me be clear: European citizens must be able to trust both security and data claims.
For technical reasons, SWIFT has to transfer bulk data, thereby violating the basic principles of EU data-protection law such as necessity and proportionality.
The Council states that it wants to ensure the utmost respect for privacy and data, but fails to address in particular the rights of access, rectification, compensation and redress outside the EU for data subjects.
However, it fails to address the fact that in this way, the EU continues to outsource its financial intelligence service to the US.
President-in-Office, tell me how on earth I can tell 500 million European citizens that we are selling out on important safeguards and principles just because we are not able to put our foot down, because Council is not able to get its act together.
This is an objective that the Treaty of Lisbon entrusts largely to Parliament.
The Council also shares Parliament's concern to ensure the security of all European citizens, for security means the guarantee that they can fully exercise their freedom.
As stated in the Resolution adopted in this Chamber on 17 September, the European Parliament 'recalls its determination to fight terrorism and its firm belief in the need to strike the right balance between security measures and the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights'.
I would also add that this not only applies to 2009 but earlier, in the United States, Europe and all over the world: in Barcelona in January 2008, in Germany in the summer of 2007, in London after the 7 July attacks and in the investigations into the 11 March attacks in Madrid, the Bangkok killings of April 2005 and the Bali bombings of 2002.
The report also highlights that TFTP is a valuable source of reliable information necessary in the fight against terrorism.
We know that the threat of terrorism in some of our Member States remains as high as ever, and I am sure that you can see that rejection of the interim agreement by this House would represent a serious blow to EU security.
Some of our Member States have made it very clear that they want the TFTP to continue because they have benefited from it in the past and will continue to do so.
This is important.
The agreement also provides for a detailed EU review in which some of our own data protection authorities will participate to ensure that these and many other data protection obligations are complied with.
It does not in any way affect the powers of data protection authorities with regard to processing activities performed in the EU by SWIFT or financial institutions.
So refusal of consent risks leading to both a data protection gap and a security gap.
Finally, the interim agreement is only an interim agreement.
This is important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to welcome you on your first working day and assure you that you have the full cooperation of our group.
Fourthly, Mrs Malmström, I would like to say with respect that it is not that Parliament had a strong interest in this area, but rather that we regard the legislative process as our responsibility, as the President has said, and we want to be involved in this process on an equal footing with the Council and the Commission.
Mr President, the Irish author Jonathan Swift in his famous book 'Gulliver's Travels' sent his hero Gulliver to the land of Lilliput, whose inhabitants were only six inches high.
However, Gulliver believed that he had arrived in the land of giants.
To me, it seems rather as if American diplomacy has followed Gulliver and believes that it can treat the European Parliament as if it were an organisation of little people.
All of these factors represent serious failings in this agreement.
This evening, I will suggest that my group votes against this agreement.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to welcome my former colleague and good friend, Cecilia Malmström.
Let us not forget that the Member States were not unanimous on this agreement either.
This is about European citizens being entitled to a proper democratic and transparent procedure.
Parliament cannot and should not take a decision if it does not have access to all relevant information and documents.
I do not consider that the second Bruguière report is sufficient.
As has rightly been said, the Members of this House are accountable to the citizens of Europe for ensuring that their rights are preserved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SWIFT agreement was negotiated on the basis of a dubious procedure and quickly pushed through only one day before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to circumvent Parliament.
It is important to combat terrorism and, in particular, its causes, and I believe that we all agree on this, but not at the cost of fundamental rights.
Mr President, we, too, in the Socialists and Democrats, want to fight for the European citizens and we want to fight against terrorism, so that is why we will be recommending, as my leader said, a 'no' vote tomorrow to ensure that we vote in this Parliament on the first consent procedure under Lisbon against a bad agreement for this whole Parliament.
No one has the moral high ground here; we want an effective fight against terrorism, that means a better agreement and that is what we will be recommending to the Socialist and Democrats this evening in our group. (ES) Mr President, I reject the methods and the time used for this agreement.
For all these reasons, I support a House vote in favour of the interim agreement and I welcome the very positive move Parliament has made to assert its authority, and the fact that Mrs Clinton and Mr Geithner have acknowledged that authority as an indispensable element now and in the future.
The failed attack on 25 December has clearly demonstrated that it is not data we are lacking, but the ability to make effective use of the data which we already have.
Instead of suitable precautions being taken to ensure that only data relating to people who are actually under suspicion is transferred, huge volumes of data will be sent to the US every month.
In the interests of the citizens, we must say no to the interim agreement and we must start new negotiations immediately, so that we can put in place a really good agreement which acts as an additional, effective tool for combating terrorism and which preserves our fundamental rights. (ES) Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon has opened a new chapter for this Parliament, but also for the Council and the Commission.
Above all, however, he put forward a future commitment: to urgently negotiate a definitive agreement that meets the demands set out in the rapporteur's report, which include the demand for a guaranteed right to appeal, to information and to the subsequent modification or deletion of private data.
So, whatever the outcome of the debate, Parliament urges the Minister to begin that negotiation as soon as possible and to thereby satisfy the Treaty of Lisbon, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and the 500 million citizens that this Parliament represents, who have a fundamental right to security. (DE) Mr President, in the era of mobility, we cannot have security without an effective and rapid exchange of data and our job is to protect our citizens against terrorist attacks.
Therefore, I would like to see more concessions made to the rapporteur, including some specific help, so that we can perhaps achieve a majority in Parliament.
If we do not have this, then the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme will remain a single central programme and it will be important for us to ensure that SWIFT only transfers individual items of data.
Therefore, I believe that we should aim for a postponement and then ultimately .... (The President cut off the speaker) Colleagues, this is a very important discussion.
I do not want to disturb you but you are all talking half a minute longer than you should.
If you all talk for such a long time then I cannot give the floor to the others. (DE) Mr President, no one has any serious doubts about the need to combat terrorism.
Therefore, I am in favour of voting against this agreement tomorrow. (SV) Mr President, I want to say that nothing will be stopped - no terrorist act will be stopped - by this proposal.
It is indisputable that we should fight terrorism, but the discussion is about how this should be done, and what kind of agreements should be signed with the Americans on this.
However, the approval of this agreement must not halt the negotiations with the United States on a long-term agreement, which will include all the objections raised by this Parliament. (DE) Mr President, today, the Council has admitted that the results of the negotiations may not have been as good as they could have been.
Secondly, I would like to say that we have already had enough promises that things will be better during the next round of negotiations without the involvement of Parliament.
If we refuse the interim agreement, it means that we have a good base for negotiating the final agreement. (SK) The saying goes that good agreements are made by equal partners.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (ES) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I have listened with great interest and appreciation to all of the speeches made by the honourable Members, speeches of both support and criticism, although admittedly, the latter were in the majority, but I welcome them all.
I would like to say firstly that I am very pleased to have confirmed once again during the debate in this House that Parliament, the Commission, and the Council are all perfectly in tune when it comes to defending our shared values and, as I said in my speech, to taking a determined stance against any kind of terrorism.
However, I also said, and I reiterate this too, that as the honourable Members know well, the time limits were as they were, so that the Council and the Commission had to take action within a very short time frame.
In any case, let me be very clear that as I said earlier this afternoon, it is the Council's wish that things be done differently from now on, and not as they have been done in the past.
I would like to say in support of the Council that it is a commitment born out of a fundamental commitment within the Treaty of Lisbon, which sets a core objective that this House should play an increasingly important role in the institutional life of Europe, so that the citizens feel better represented.
This commitment from my country, which is a fundamental commitment within the Treaty of Lisbon, is the reason why I want to state here categorically that during the Spanish Presidency, the Council will do things differently.
I would like to make three comments regarding the issue itself.
I will not address some of the more specific issues that have been the object of criticism, some of which is unfounded in my opinion.
Firstly, along with the Commission and some of the Members of this House, I would like to stress that the agreement has been useful in the fight against terrorism.
It is true that the SWIFT agreement was used to investigate the 11 March attacks in Madrid, with good results.
It is also worth remembering that the SWIFT agreement was used to prevent an attack on the city of Barcelona just over a year ago.
However, the honourable Members will surely agree with me in saying that this agreement is a lot better than the protocol over data exchange that the United States and the EU have had to comply with for years.
We cannot ignore the fact that this agreement has come in for a great deal of criticism.
We did achieve certain concessions from the United States and some very good data protection mechanisms.
Well, Mr Lambrinidis, the Commission has been in office for 16 hours and 20 minutes.
You will see the negotiation mandate; you will have time to look at the papers, the reports and so on, and the Commission is willing, as I said, to work together with you and the Council for a good - and much better - permanent agreement on this.
This is not according to the Rules, but could I ask you, Mr President-in-Office, to take two short - and I emphasise short - questions from Mr Schulz and Mr Lambrinidis - nothing more, as we could discuss this for another two hours. (DE) Mr President, Mr Rubalcaba, I have listened carefully to what you have said, along with all the Members of this House.
Under these conditions, I think that we would have a very different debate from the one we are having here this afternoon. (DE) Mr President, that is very helpful.
Such statements give the impression that very few people have actually read the agreement that they are criticising, since having read it, there is no way they could have come up with some of these arguments.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (ES) Mr President, some of the honourable Members are calling for an interim agreement and others for a permanent agreement.
If you are asking whether, within a deadline of a few months, we can bring to this House the results of dialogue between the United States and Parliament, whose participation is very important, so that we can debate whether we are right in thinking that the definitive agreement will be much better than the present one, my answer is yes.
I believe that in these circumstances, the debate we are having today would be radically different.
rapporteur. - Mr President, a lot has been said.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 February 2010.
The agreement with the United States on the transfer of financial data rather comes down to opening and reading the personal mail of all European citizens or monitoring all their e-mail exchanges on the pretext that terrorists are likely to send each other letters or electronic messages.
However, we cannot accept this agreement.
Mr President, we are recommending to our fellow Members that they vote against this report with the aim of giving the members of the Council and the Commission the opportunity to make some adjustments and thereby alter their position.
We must not forget, however, that our primary objective should be to limit terrorism, because terrorism is still a real threat, including in Europe.
The European Parliament should not make a show of its authority by rejecting the interim agreement with the USA on the processing of financial messaging data, because this agreement improves the security of our continent.
