Conclusions of the European Council meeting on 16-17 December (debate) The next item is the statements by the European Council and the European Commission on the conclusions of the European Council meeting on 16-17 December.
I secured agreement on a text consisting of two sentences, to be added to Article 136 of the Treaty.
I quote: 'The Member States whose currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be activated if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole.
It is important, not just for legal certainty, but also for market credibility.
I would like to thank President Buzek for his contribution on this at the European Council and for informing us of Parliament's willingness to proceed quickly in considering this matter.
The President of the Central Bank was also present and a statement by the Heads of State or Government of the eurozone and the EU institutions present was welcomed by the European Council.
It is our common duty.
The Heads of State or Government of the eurozone and the EU institutions 'stand ready to do whatever is required to ensure the stability of the eurozone as a whole'.
These meetings all showed that, for our partners, the European Union is not only an economic union and a trade bloc, but also a geopolitical partner.
The European Council also decided to give Montenegro the status of candidate country.
As you know, the European Council, on 4 February, will deal principally with our growth agenda.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, last year, the European Union faced a series of stern tests and December's European Council has shown just how determined we are to take whatever decisions are necessary to defend our achievements.
Although this will be an intergovernmental mechanism, which was the only option the Member States could consider, it is important that it is set up in a manner fully consistent with the Treaty and that it reinforces our stability rules, in accordance with the principles and instruments of budgetary surveillance.
These decisions are linked to the wider range of measures we are taking as part of our approach to dealing with both the economic crisis and its consequences and the need to generate growth with jobs.
In particular, the Heads called for determined action in ensuring the availability of adequate financial support through the European Financial Stability Facility pending the entry into force of the permanent mechanism.
It recognised the important role the Europe 2020 strategy will also have in returning Europe to sustainable growth.
This is our new economic governance at work - governance that should be the comprehensive response to the crisis.
The Commission has signalled this very clearly in the Annual Growth Survey.
The politics of economic governance and economic coordination have changed and this is not just because the so-called federalists wanted it.
The new European Semester combines tighter fiscal rules by reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact with effective economic coordination.
But we have to approach this in a sober and well thought-out way.
The choice is a simple one: do we want jobless growth or growth with jobs?
Let me be quite clear: structural reform does not mean reducing our level of social protection, but it does mean bringing in those who are currently excluded from the labour market, especially our young people.
In the face of increased international competition, we can only sustain our social market economy if we adapt.
Our Europe 2020 programme is central to this.
The world has changed.
So let us now commit seriously to proper economic policy coordination and real common European economic governance for all our citizens.
Our Heads of State or Government have since confirmed their deep attachment to the European currency and the fact that Estonia is joining the euro area at the beginning of this year is yet another signal in this direction, as well as setting a very good example of how to respect standards to the major countries that fail to respect them.
Everything possible must be done in 2011 to overcome these problems and to reassure the markets, not superficially but structurally, in other words, by creating the right conditions for growth and employment in the long term.
I think we are speaking the same language on this issue.
That also implies completing the European internal market, investing more in research and innovation, and in lifelong education and training.
Mr Barroso, let us scrutinise everything, let us not be afraid and, as I have already said several times, let us take two or three different examples of budgets: for example, how can we pull Europe out of its current situation with 1%, 2% or 5%?
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, December's European Council at least gave us political agreement on a permanent crisis resolution mechanism but - given the reaction of the markets after Christmas, with new fears over the solvency of Portugal, Spain, and Belgium - we have to ask whether, once again, this was a case of 'too little too late'.
The proposed European stabilisation mechanism itself raised new questions on the financial markets and the existing Financial Stability Mechanism is now regarded as insufficient.
What we have had ever since 2008 is repeated hesitation and internal wrangling between Member States and the institutions, and each time, a painfully extracted response - but produced too late and constituting less than what was required.
The clearest illustration of the problem is the fact that, in the face of today's economic and monetary challenges, we simply do not have the tools we need.
Our institutional decision-making processes are complex and lacking in democracy, and our economic policy strategy is divided and ineffective.
Against this background, I am shocked, President Barroso, at the frontal attack by the Commission on social Europe and the interference with national labour markets, as in the case of Ireland.
Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Barroso, I would like to make two comments on the conclusions of last December's European Council.
You were there already, Mr Barroso.
Sometimes we need to consider what happens when we say to the markets, 'We need to change the Treaties, it must all be done by this date', and then hope that it will be done.
It looks like we are saying to people that we can change the Treaties, that we can go that far amid all the legal red tape, but that when it really comes down to it, we are not doing it either for the 2020 strategy to be taken seriously or for them to have jobs and growth.
I would like the Council to speed up, Mr Van Rompuy.
Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, my main memory of the last Council meeting was not reflected in your summary and, therefore, I would like to sum the meeting up in a different way.
We need an approach which will allow us to prepare Europeans for the future in the context of a Green New Deal and to set a new course in this crisis.
Some Member States were able to find other solutions to prop up their economies artificially: through asset-price inflation, in part, caused by an unsuitably low interest rate and a refusal to take corrective action by other means; or by injecting borrowed public funds on an unsustainable scale and, in some cases, to cover up the size of the resulting fiscal deficit.
The financial and economic crisis made large-scale government intervention in the economy unavoidable - but we must not confuse the palliative with the cure.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, the permanent Financial Stability Mechanism in practice is nothing more than another tool to cushion major European banks from the consequences of their reckless speculation on the financial markets.
It is a mechanism to make working class people throughout Europe pay for the crisis of a broken financial system and a crisis-ridden European capitalism.
It seems that that is not possible and that you are not prepared to develop scenarios of this kind, although many economists believe that they could, in fact, work very well and that they might well be our best option.
No economist would agree with you on that, Mr Farage.
Even now, we have on the table the European Semester, the economic governance package, the provisional and permanent rescue strategy, the so-called 'Eurobonds' to cover part of the sovereign debt that is considered to be secure, plus an action plan based on the European Investment Bank and bonds for specific projects, which is in the proposal that the Commission sent us on the internal market.
Secondly, this design needs to be a European design that does not divide Europe in two - let us not stumble into a two-speed Europe - and that pursues two objectives with equal intensity: budgetary discipline - as much as is necessary - and economic growth to bring us out of the crisis that we are in.
It would create a market as liquid as that in the United States, and would give a boost to the euro as a reserve currency, enabling the central banks and sovereign funds to invest their reserves here.
However, Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, you risk enticing us down a path that could lead us along the route of 'too little, too late'.
I also welcome the somewhat belated recognition from the Council that Article 122 of the Treaty is completely inappropriate for supporting the bail-out mechanism.
However, in preparing the basis for that mechanism to come into force, perhaps in 2013, we should not forget the fact that we remain very much in crisis now.
Once we get through this crisis, we really need to look at restoring democracy in these countries and restoring the will of their national electorates to be in control of their own national economic policies. (PT) Mr President, in politics, there are reasonable measures, mistaken measures and improper measures.
It is reasonable for Europe to issue European public debt, although Mrs Merkel does not approve.
It is reasonable for us in Europe to be able to mutualise part of our sovereign debt, although Mrs Merkel does not approve.
However, what is improper is the news that has become public that the European Stability Mechanism and the International Monetary Fund could end up mutualising part of the sovereign debt accumulated by private banks at 6% or 7% interest, in Portugal's case, after the same banks have financed themselves at 1% interest with the European Central Bank.
Mr Trichet himself, who has denied the danger of the European Central Bank becoming insolvent, does, however, admit that one of the reasons behind increasing its capital is to face up to the credit risk, in other words, the insolvency of the bonds purchased.
Whatever internal discussions take place, whether the financial facility will need to double its capital and the right to buy bonds, whether the Financial Stability Mechanism after 2013 will include trimming or will be ordered to sell eurobonds, are ideas that are not excluded by any Member State.
As a Member from a small Member State, may I ask for reassurances that members like Malta, Cyprus, Estonia or Slovenia will be included, because if they are in trouble, they may not be indispensable for the stability of the whole? (EL) Mr President, we need to acknowledge that, even though it was completely unprepared institutionally and politically, Europe made serious steps to deal with the crisis right from the start.
We therefore need an integrated European response to the crisis, which will not replace or overlook the responsibilities of the Member States to keep to their word and restructure their public finances, but which will protect these economies from attacks by the markets and help to ensure that their efforts are successful.
However, joining the eurozone is not simply a question of individual choice - it is about more solidarity, taking common responsibility and actively contributing to the stability of the continent as a whole.
What is crucial is whether a country can be trusted as being willing and able to meet its commitments in time and engaging in serious structural reforms.
I welcomed the fact that the Council was able to agree on a European Stability Mechanism, but the practical way to economic growth and stability is, first of all, to complete the single market, and especially the European single digital market.
This is a question that I put to you. (IT) Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, ladies and gentlemen, I see two major problems with the proposed amendment to Article 136, one of them institutional and the other political.
The institutional one is that Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that monetary policy for the countries whose currency is the euro is the exclusive competence of the Union, but Article 2 provides that exclusive competence may be exercised by the Member States if authorised by the Union.
The next summit in February will be suitable for taking strategic decisions on important issues such as energy.
Mr President, I propose that quantitative easing be considered in the euro area; it may prove to be an egg of Columbus. (FI) Mr President, there is no doubt that the doubleedged sword of Damocles is hanging over Europe - that is, the economic crisis and an increase in nationalism - and both of these have joined forces.
It is very odd that it should be weak on these matters.
Whether they will or not, we cannot be certain at this point in time.
Sometimes that is not easy in a European Union with 27 Member States, with the euro area now with 17 Member States - and I very much welcome Estonia as a new member - and with a process of decision making that is not always the simplest one, in part, because we are based on the principle of democracy.
The task we have in front of us is extremely difficult.
Mr Hughes, I very much respect your concern with social Europe, but let us be completely open about this.
That is why I want to state again that some of the proposals which were put forward are indeed themselves interesting ones, but they are not able at this moment to generate the necessary consensus, and the Commission has to be very attentive to the contribution it gives to forging this consensus.
In Europe, all the states have exactly the same dignity and those ideas of discriminating between Member States are, in fact, very dangerous ideas for the European project.
We should ask all Member States that are in a more vulnerable position to do whatever they have to do to restore confidence in their economies through appropriate macro-economic stability, fiscal consolidation, structural reforms; this is critically important at this moment.
At the same time, those countries that are now in a better position should show solidarity with those countries as well.
I think it is critically important that we have a strong response regarding stability of the euro area; that we are not, as happened sometimes in the past, behind the curve but ahead of the curve; that we give a comprehensive response which restores confidence in the determination of the euro area and the European Union as a whole, and not just by statements but by acting.
That is an important thing, that is a question of credibility.
Statements are important but that is not enough; it is important to act and for all of us as a whole to commit to stronger governance in the euro area and in the European Union.
It is not just a question of solidarity; it is also a question of responsibility.
Who would have believed that in 2008 or in 2009?
It is a worthy explanation.
They were effective in terms of growth and an increase in employment, though.
That is why it is very important to set up as quickly as possible the economic governance that was decided in the Task Force, which was debated on the basis of six proposals from the Commission to Parliament, and for all those involved in codecision to reach agreement.
If we can achieve it through agreements between the euro area countries, we need not only to think about it but to work towards it to reach a conclusion in the next few weeks and in the next few months.
Furthermore, in the very short term, we are preparing for a global approach to improving the instruments created in 2010 to overcome the crisis.
The next meeting of the European Council will be on 4 February, and after that, also in February, the next report from President Van Rompuy.
However, this also begs questions about the foundations of our economic and monetary union.
The nature and objectives of the process of European capitalist integration are becoming ever more evident as the effects of the crisis of capitalism in the EU are deepening, which is exacerbating the economic and social situation in several Member States, exacerbating imbalances.
