Preparations for the European Council meeting (24 June 2011) (continuation of debate) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Council and Commission statements on the preparations for the European Council meeting of 23-24 June 2011.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all the key question of this debate today is what we can expect from this European Council on Thursday and on Friday.
I would say to Martin Schulz that I also have some questions about rating agencies and the role they are playing in the current crisis, but let us try to find errors and the sources of the crisis within our own ranks, and maybe not outside the European Union and outside its institutions.
This crisis is not over, and this crisis will continue if, first of all, we do not find a structural solution for Greece and, secondly, if we do not create a real, economic and political union in Europe.
If they know on the other side of the Atlantic what we have to do, why do we not have the courage to take this enormous step forward to an economic and political union?
If so, we need a positive plan for it.
They need to have growth and investment and we can deliver on that within the European Union.
Moreover, if we want all the other countries to give money to Greece, we also need a political consensus to be reached in Greece.
It is true that a country in such a situation yearns for political unity, and it is not by playing petty political games, as is currently the case in Greece, that this situation will be resolved.
I would ask you, Mr Barroso, to rectify this.
However, I do not think it appropriate, this afternoon before such an important Council meeting, to play the party political card by pitting one particular government against another.
What I was asking of you was to convince your friends from the Nea Dimokratia, a party of which, incidentally, many of the members are also our friends and have even, in some cases, moved over to my group, and which has only one aim: to unite the people of Greece so that they can emerge from the crisis they are going through.
This European Council should send a clear signal that if a country's position is unsustainable within the euro zone then, unless it makes dramatic changes, the euro zone should not hesitate to raise the possibility of restructuring its debt or even - however cruel it might seem - of its leaving the club.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed at how raucous the debate on the deepest crisis that the European Union has experienced for a long time has suddenly become.
When we realise that we are currently defending Schengen, that we have been unable to defend the freedom of the press in Hungary during this Council Presidency, that we needed a long time even to begin to find a common European language with regard to Libya and Egypt, then it is no wonder that, in the face of the worsening situation in Greece, all we can say is that, although we now have many leaders in Europe, we have no leadership.
In this crisis that has lasted much longer than the Greek crisis, we are also in a situation where all of the solutions that the Council comes up with are coming too late and are too narrow in scope.
For example, Parliament refused to come together in good time prior to this historic Council meeting to adopt a resolution to address the problems relating precisely to this historic crisis.
As pleased as I am that he received a vote of confidence yesterday, the Greek Government will also be involved in deciding on fair programmes in the crisis.
The fact that this is so unfairly distributed, that the burden is only being borne by the lower sections of society, that no capital levy is being introduced in Greece and that tax evasion is also widespread in Greece is an unfair situation.
The national solidarity that was mentioned must also result in the elite in Greece, who are after all even today still profiting from the crisis, also taking their share of the responsibility. (Applause) We stick by everything that we have already said on many occasions with regard to Greece.
Therefore, the issue that brought us into this crisis is still the dominating factor and so far there has been no political leadership to tackle this.
I believe that this is the main issue that needs to be discussed during the European Council meeting in the next few days.
I do not know whether you are still pursuing the financial transaction tax.
In that case, I would say that this is a political belly flop.
Mr Barroso, every time I predict that another country is on the verge of a bail-out you say, 'no no, there is no problem'.
You have a 100% record for being wrong with every single prediction about the euro and you say today that this package will put Greece on the road to growth, but no it won't.
They have to accept cutting their economy to a level that will put them in total economic depression.
We were part of the exchange rate mechanism.
It is unacceptable that Mr Barroso should decide whether the Netherlands should grant aid.
There is only one body that can rule on whether the Netherlands should help Greece and that is the Dutch Parliament.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would just like to answer two concrete questions that were put to me.
That is why I want once again to appeal to all the democratic forces in Europe, in this Parliament, in Greece, to unite in a consensus to do everything possible to ensure growth and prosperity in Europe.
The two concrete questions were about the financial tax and about our position on reverse qualified majority.
On the financial tax, I want to confirm that the proposal that the Commission will put forward, probably in October, will be on a financial transaction tax.
We have decided to come forward now with a proposal on a financial transaction tax, one reason being precisely that there is no equivalent of VAT for financial transactions.
At the same time - and Olli Rehn will have the opportunity to address you later this afternoon - we will make a strong appeal to you and to the Council to see if it is possible to come to a final agreement.
I want to congratulate you, the Parliament, those that have been working most on this matter, and also the Hungarian Presidency of the Council, as it has done some very important work as well.
The Commission supports the Community approach.
The Commission supports the greatest possible ambition, which is the line that I think that you are also defining.
These are the concrete answers to the concrete questions. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said with regard to Greece.
I would just like to add two thoughts on this matter.
The second thought is that mention has been made of the big test for Europe and of the concern that the project could perhaps even fail and that old ghosts that we had thought we had eradicated could return to the European Union.
This could also be a big opportunity to prove to the people that we are stronger together than we are alone.
In this context, it is quite difficult to deal with the second major issue for the Council meeting, namely that of migration.
However, there is a nice link that connects the two issues, because in relation to the migration issue, in particular Schengen, we also see the same principle at work, namely that one of Europe's major successes is now being called into question as a result of national egotism.
I am sure that we have all seen the figures indicating that 18 000 refugees have arrived in Italy.
However, we all know that, for Italy, 18 000 refugees is hardly an excessive burden, because twice as many refugees have been received in the last year in Belgium alone.
When the question of migration and Schengen is discussed, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union must respond with the clear message that we do not want national egotism, in particular in this area.
Mr Barroso, you will certainly have Parliament's support in that. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I would firstly like to say a few words on a subject that is close to my heart and that, of course, is Croatia.
I hope that we will succeed in taking a decision to allow Croatia truly to be accepted into the European Union now.
Allow me to add a few words with regard to Greece.
Mr Barroso, you said that it will be difficult to explain it to citizens if we do not come up with a solution, for example in connection with the economic governance package.
However, Mr Barroso, it will also be difficult to explain it to citizens if we only concentrate on austerity.
You talked about growth and said that we need something to promote growth - but what exactly, Mr Barroso?
When there is talk of privatisations, Mr Barroso, you know exactly how to force Greece quickly into a wave of privatisations now - just as Mr Bisky said, things are being sold off.
Secondly, we have to say that we also need to invest some of the money.
If some of the demonstrators, in Greece for example or in other countries, believe that we do not need to change anything and that we can carry on as before, then they are wrong.
That is extremely important. (DE) Mr President, following the confidence vote yesterday in Athens with the result that we are all aware of, the Bild newspaper in Germany printed the headline 'Greek leader has survived - Europe can breathe a sigh of relief'.
I have to say that I was also pleased with the result of this vote, but I think it is far too early to breathe a sigh of relief.
Further steps and measures will still need to be taken before this crisis is overcome.
However, I would also like to make it quite clear that the people in the countries from which most of the aid is coming also need a light at the end of the tunnel.
In Greece the people have the feeling that they are saving and saving and saving and there is no end to it.
Mr Barroso, I am extremely pleased to hear you explain once again that the Commission is of exactly the same opinion.
I would like to see substantial support for this project from this House. (DE) Mr President, thank you Mr Lambsdorff, I am of the opinion that Greece urgently needs political unity.
However, the question that I would like to ask you is this: I would also like to see some consistency in your group.
In particular, I should like to thank everyone in the Commission who has been working so hard for 18 months now to resolve the Greek crisis.
I should just like to make one patriotic comment in this multinational Chamber.
It is historic, because we will identify the challenges that the European Union has to face, and to which we now have to give nothing but responsible answers.
In particular, I would like to thank Minister of State Enikő Győri, who was always present everywhere, for her work.
There are great expectations towards the approaching Council meeting, and towards issues of the package that have yet to be resolved through compromise.
At the same time, the Council and Parliament bear a huge responsibility over the agreement, because they have to decide whether they want to follow the bad practices that have lead to the weakening of the Stability and Growth Pact and indirectly to the crisis as well, or put an end to the policy of agreements made at Member State level and bad bargains, and finally give space to a new economic policy approach that will offer common European solutions, is built on commonly established rules, and will finally complete the economic policy aspect of integration, with a strong Europe in focus.
Citizens, national parliaments and the markets all expect the European Union to shape the European economy uniformly, following commonly accepted rules, to ensure the stability of the common currency and to protect European citizens from the crisis efficiently. (ES) Mr President, the Members of the European Parliament fully understand that the debate on the European Council which is set to be held on 23 and 24 June will continue to focus on the persistent crisis and the problems faced by the euro, and Greece.
There are precedents clearly indicating that, faced with unexpected, abrupt migratory pressures, as was the case in the Canary Islands, in Spain, between 2004 and 2006, the response given cannot just be more, better Europe, but also a supportive contribution to the demand for better democracy in the neighbouring countries.
We know that Malta, Italy and France have been subjected to this pressure, but we have to be very clear that the Council must do its part by completing the asylum package, completing the immigration package, completing the reform of the Frontex Regulation and, not least, by updating the solidarity clause included in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which means updating Directive 2001/55/EC.
Unfortunately, this global economic crisis highlights the worst of our nationalist and populist views.
If a year ago the EU had shown a unified and total commitment to helping Greece, we would not now be jumping from one rescue plan to another.
A few hours ago, however, Mrs Malmström issued a public statement saying that when the tragedy of the Libyan exodus began everyone undertook to receive at least 800 refugees per country.
That means that, when national governments are wavering due to internal issues, we do not have an instrument that we can activate in order to implement what might be a solution to our problems.
I would very much like to vote for him for a third time, but this time for his courage.
Therefore, given the tough agenda to be tackled by the Council on 24 June, I expect the leadership shown by the Commission and the European institutions to persuade the national governments to put our ideals before whatever is in our interests.
Otherwise, we will continue to hold debates in which we grumble about the fact that perhaps the French Government has taken an initiative about Schengen for internal reasons, or the Italian Government has refused to admit someone or other, or the Greek Government is still too weak to really be able to take responsibility for its own decisions.
The main issue, however, lies elsewhere: unless the political nature of the European project is clarified, we will be incapable of dealing with our problems. (EL) Mr President, may I start by adding my thanks to those expressed by Mrs Tzavela - and I wish to thank her for that - to the parliaments and people of Europe for the support which they have given and are continuing to give to my country.
He should then have read the riot act to Italy and France in the way that Manfred Weber of the PPE did earlier in this debate.
In an excellent article published in the Financial Times yesterday, Mario Monti deplored both the excessive deference to big Member States and the 'culture of politeness' in the Council, which meant that Member States refused to call each other to account for failings.
The front-line Member States have in fact had to face the refugee crisis by means of unilateral initiatives, without being able to rely on European solidarity.
I would also like to welcome the Vice-President of the European Commission and make two remarks.
Let us look at the case of Greece.
Mr Papandreou, the Prime Minister, has done everything in his power to get out of this difficult situation.
Four things are needed in order to prevent the Greek crisis from having a much-feared domino effect across the entire euro area: firstly, a united Greece with an economic and budgetary recovery plan; secondly, a European Union and a Euro Group which are united by the same objective; thirdly, a little more time than initially planned, particularly for privatisations; and fourthly, solidarity which is properly understood and which comprises not only new loans, but also, and above all, technical assistance from its partners, and in particular from the Commission. (PT) Mr President, first of all I must say that I am expecting some highly responsible decision making from this European Council, particularly in view of the economic climate we have been experiencing in recent weeks.
I believe that is what is at stake.
Not even Maradona or Pelé could win the match of this crisis by themselves.
The Greek crisis could have been controlled in its early stages.
If the situation is not resolved, the Council, at the Commission's suggestion, can decide by qualified majority to reintroduce border controls for a limited period.
We have now reached an emergency situation where solidarity and responsibility are all that count, but solidarity does not just mean all for one.
The Commission needs a mandate to assess the economic situation in the Member States, so it can issue recommendations and warnings in time.
I am referring in particular to the interest rate being charged by the ECB to my own country, Ireland.
Hungarian experts and diplomats deserve the highest praise for their great work, because they managed to reduce the number of issues between the Council and the European Parliament to only a few.
The Council members are indifferent to the struggle of workers and ordinary people and, unfortunately, what they are proposing is to make permanent the neoliberal policies that have already led to serious crises in Greece and Ireland and are threatening Portugal and other Member States.
I would like to say that the Schengen area, and the freedom it brings to travel around Europe, was a symbol of freedom and of the European Union, and one of the chief assets and greatest merits of the European Union, for me personally, as a Pole, and for all Polish people.
Therefore I would call not only for the Schengen system to be defended, but also for Romania and Bulgaria to be included, or rather involved in this system as soon as possible. (PL) Mr President, it has given me great satisfaction during today's debate to see the two camps which have emerged in respect of the reasons behind this state of affairs and the recommendations; the neo-liberals on one side, and the left-wing Members on the other.
It is apparent that after so many months of debates on the situation in Europe, we have come to the conclusion firstly that there is a very high level of threat, and secondly that cooperation is necessary.
In connection with this, I was happy to hear Mr Barroso say today that a proposal will be submitted regarding a tax on financial transactions.
Firstly, that the Schengen Area is defended because it represents freedom for our citizens and constitutes one of the most visible elements for European Union citizens.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, today's lively and animated debate is clear proof that the agenda of the European Council is highly relevant and critically important for the future of Europe.
We know that the situation in Greece is very difficult and that there are no easy solutions.
I agree with all of you who said that it is very important to demonstrate to the Greek people that it is not only about cuts and austerity, but that there is also light at the end of the tunnel and that we can actually help Greece to get back onto the path of growth.
I am absolutely sure that the European Union and the Commission can do that.
This would be my appeal and the appeal of the Commission to the Greek political representatives: cooperate, show us unity, show us a united approach to the very difficult issues.
I would like to confirm once again that a financial transaction tax will be proposed by the European Commission.
This will be one of our proposals, and one of our inputs into the global debate on these very important issues.
Several of you referred to the Schengen area and to the importance of having high quality immigration policies in place.
After recent developments, we also have to acknowledge that we need a complex solution for all aspects of migration and that we need to consolidate trust in the system.
This is the Commission's approach and I hope that it will be supported by the European Parliament and by the Member States.
First of all, I would like to thank you all for recognising our work, as we could hear many MEPs from various groups conclude that the Hungarian Presidency did a good job.
The solution - as proposed by the great majority - is more Europe, a stronger Europe; the Hungarian Presidency has been working for the last six months with this in mind.
It is indeed our firm belief that deeper integration is the solution to our common problems.
I thank Parliament for their cooperation.
Therefore, we now submit the package to the European Council, whose President's name is Herman Van Rompuy, and who will decide on a course of action.
I truly hope that the heads of EU Member States and governments will take the political decision tomorrow and the day after tomorrow about the accession of Croatia, and that the negotiations can be concluded in the final hours of the Hungarian Presidency, on 30 June at the latest.
The European Commission worked around the clock to be able to issue a positive report on 10 June.
I can assure you that both the Croatians and the Hungarian Presidency have been working day and night to make this happen.
Finally, I would like to thank not only this House - which I have done already - but also our partners in the trio, Spain and Belgium, for their excellent cooperation and for the fact that we were able to complete the 18-month trio programme, and may I wish Poland all the best and a Parliament-friendly Presidency.
I hope this Council sends out a strong, clear message to this effect, emphasising that the Member States need to respect and implement the Schengen rules properly and effectively.
In addition to the identically tailored IMF-EU programmes that they want to implement in Ireland and now Portugal, they are preparing to reinforce the attack on Greece, squeezing its people even further.
Today's European Union comprises both the euro area and the remaining countries, and while the euro area itself admittedly shares one currency, it is also made up of 17 bond markets and 17 governments' development strategies.
We also believe that the burden should fall on those who are responsible for the economic crisis, hence the idea of a tax on financial transactions, and not those who are its victims, for example the citizens of Greece.
in writing. - We are preparing for a busy European Council meeting which will, in my opinion, be even of historic importance.
However, I do hope that after the good quality work they have done on a professional level, they will have enough political weight and agility to reach important goals in other areas, such as the Croatian accession, migration and the very pressing issue of economic governance.
They have to work hard to achieve an understanding between 27 Member States, to reflect Europe's unity and willingness to overcome the crisis and preserve the essence of European integration.
Now, countries with easily accessible external borders are swamped, but the majority of asylum seekers nevertheless are landing in the countries with the most generous social security systems.
There must finally be a clear differentiation between refugees with a right to asylum and economic migrants.
I would first of all like to say how pleased I am that my position, supported by an amendment to the resolution on the 2010 progress report for Croatia, tabled along with my colleague Bernd Posselt, is in the process of becoming a reality.
The Council's decision will send an extremely strong signal to the Western Balkans as a whole, encouraging the governments in this region to continue their reforms.
The Schengen area will be one of the issues discussed at the Council's forthcoming meeting.
In this context, I think that restoring border controls within the Schengen area is not acceptable, nor is the introduction of additional criteria for Member States which would like to join the Schengen area and fulfil the specific technical criteria.
I call on the relevant Member States to give priority to the implementation of this strategy, thereby ensuring economic and social development for more than 120 million citizens living in this macro-region.
However, that also means that if a country receives help, this country must also follow the measures that are put in place for this purpose.
With regard to the planned accession of Croatia, the fact that Croatia fulfils the accession criteria is something to be welcomed, but it nevertheless has to be asked how the funding of approximately EUR 500 million to which Croatia is entitled is actually to be financed.
