Referendum on the future status of Southern Sudan (debate) The next item is the statement by the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on the referendum on the future status of Southern Sudan.
The timely, peaceful and credible conduct of the referendum has been a remarkable success and one of which everyone should be proud.
The preliminary results of the referendum in the 10 southern states were announced on 30 January and showed an overwhelming majority (99.5%) in favour of secession.
Sudan has been high on our political agenda in Brussels during the past months.
More than anything, however, I want to thank Véronique de Keyser, the Chief Election Observer for the South Sudan Referendum, and her team in the EU observation mission, for the important role they played in helping to create confidence in this process among the people of Sudan.
We are encouraged by President al-Bashir's remarks in Juba on 4 January, reaffirmed at the Mini-Summit on Sudan in Addis Ababa on 31 January, that the Government of Sudan will accept the results of the referendum, will be the first to recognise the new state and will extend full cooperation to it.
The referendum on Abyei, which was supposed to have been held at the same time as the Southern Sudan referendum, has still not taken place.
Looking to the future, I assure you this will remain high on our agenda.
I believe the EU has an important role to play in supporting a peaceful, stable and democratic future for the Sudanese people, whether in one country or two.
Southern Sudan is in a transitional period, as a great deal could still happen between now and 9 July, the date on which it formally gains its independence.
Economic, social and political interdependence should encourage the authorities in both countries to engage in constant dialogue and cooperation.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (FR) Madam President, following on from the discussions about Tunisia, Egypt and other countries that are currently calling for freedom, I would like to say that our observation mission to Southern Sudan for the referendum was a wonderful and exemplary experience.
Southern Sudan is set to become the fifty-fourth state in Africa on 9 July.
Firstly there is the oil in the Abyei region, located on the border between North and South, but for which no clear boundaries have been defined and which did not have its own referendum.
Then there is the issue flagged up by Mariya Nedelcheva - whom I would like to thank for her participation in the observation mission - and by Baroness Ashton: citizenship.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, for over twenty years we have known that the population of Southern Sudan does not want Sharia law imposed by Khartoum.
The European Union should also take on the mantle of leader of all those who will be working in partnership with the new state in the Herculean task of reforming this part of Africa.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, we are bearing witness to the birth of a new state.
Moreover, it is a country to which a lot of people are returning, refugees without anywhere to live, without food and without jobs.
I also call on all 27 EU Member States to immediately recognise this new African nation on 9 July as decreed in the CPA.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (NL) Mr President, every sign indicates that the result of the 9 January referendum in Southern Sudan will be virtually unanimous support for independence.
After all, Southern Sudan has recently left behind it 23 years of civil warfare with the Arab north, in which 2.5 million people were killed and more than 4 million driven out.
Just last week, I received some worrying reports in connection with that, that is, reports of serious malpractice in the new police academy in Rajaf.
I would therefore call for European attention and efforts to help address this, but also, equally, to assist with all the urgent state affairs which Southern Sudan will be facing. (DE) Mr President, there are two things that I brought back from the trip to Sudan: firstly, a belief in the viability of Southern Sudan and, secondly, the fact that there is no alternative to this belief in the viability of Southern Sudan.
We must also be aware that the referendum is not the end of the matter, and that ultimate success means realising the wishes of those living in Sudan.
Half the population in the south is under 18 years of age and, if they escape the clutches of child mortality, they are at risk, due to poverty and the lack of prospects, of ending up as cannon fodder in the conflicts which may undermine the new state's independence.
We are approaching an historic turning point: establishing lasting peace and a new state in a country which has lived through nearly 40 years of civil war in the 55 years since its independence.
The international community and European Union must not forget about Northern Sudan, just as we must not forget Darfur, where the conflict is far from resolved and where violence has increased considerably over the past 12 months, with over 270 000 individuals forced to leave their homes and more than three million still living in camps. (ES) Mr President, the European Union's fundamental principle is democracy and, given that the vast majority of Southern Sudan's inhabitants have democratically voted in favour of independence, the European Union must give its support to the immediate creation of the new state.
In the same vein, I would also stress the international importance that the right to self-determination is taking on as a tool for international relations: we have seen it in Kosovo and we are now seeing it in Southern Sudan.
Therefore, in order to strengthen the Union itself, the EU must also be prepared to recognise the right to self-determination of any European countries - such as Catalonia, Scotland or Flanders - that democratically opt for independence. (NL) Mr President, these are apocalyptic times.
However, in the midst of this global tumult, we are witnessing a wonderful development: the birth of Southern Sudan.
It is a country that still needs to establish its borders, address the issue we have heard mentioned several times of the conflicts in the Abyei region, the issue of the oil pipeline, which is the most important thing in that country, and also the international aid system.
I would therefore like to make a very simple point to the Commissioner.
There are two or three things that we need to do.
We need to establish a strategy for Southern Sudan, and recognise this new State on 7 February, without waiting until 9 July when the results of the election are made official.
Finally, after 20 years, it seems we are seeing a bit of light at the end of a long, arduous tunnel.
However, it is necessary to ensure, as Baroness Ashton said, that there is a proper additional referendum in Abyei, as well as in the region where oil is located.
The observer mission of the European Parliament will also be needed at this additional vote.
This has also been a success for the European Union, which has supported and monitored the electoral process, as it will be doing soon in Chad and Uganda.
Let us hope that the European Union takes on a leading role within the international community in supporting whatever new state emerges from Southern Sudan's referendum, in order to solve all the outstanding problems mentioned here, from returnees to natural resources.
In this huge region of Africa, it is clear to see, and, ladies and gentlemen, all your speeches have shown, that what happens in a country may affect all the other countries in terms of development, peace and stability.
Mrs De Keyser, whose role as Chief Election Observer I would like to acknowledge, recalled, as did Baroness Ashton, the success of this referendum - an exemplary process and a transition that has to be peaceful.
That is why I am happy that I have been given this opportunity to comment on this situation on behalf of Baroness Ashton.
Mr President, I wish to point out that, since 2003, the European Union has contributed EUR 776 million to humanitarian cooperation with Sudan, in particular to Darfur, which badly needs it, and to Southern Sudan.
We are currently planning to create special funds of some EUR 150 million for the most vulnerable population groups in Sudan and, naturally, Southern Sudan.
Mr President, I would like to say a final word on a subject that several of you have raised, that is to say, debt.
in writing. - (DE) The fact that, in the referendum, Southern Sudan voted in favour of a split was to be expected.
For that reason, the EU must help the new state to maintain its independence and to protect its sovereignty, because development aid for Southern Sudan may also play an important role with regard to Europe's oil supply in the future.
