The percentage of young people who are not in education, employment or training ranges from about 4% in Denmark and the Netherlands to 16 to 20% in Italy, Cyprus and Bulgaria.
The Commission has identified this as one of the priorities the Member States should focus on in line with the common flexicurity principles under EU 2020 and the European Employment strategy.
One further point I would like to make is that young people have, of course, been among those who have suffered most from job losses and the lack of opportunities in the last couple of years.
If we do not take action, it can have an impact on demography trends which are already extremely complicated, so in the next term, in a kind of alliance or cooperation with the Hungarian Presidency, we will discuss this in the context of a demographic discussion, because demography and family policies also have to be looked at in the same context as job security and income security for young people in Europe.
One of these concerns renewable energy, which, by 2020, must make up 20% of the total energy consumption in the European Union.
Obviously, in order to ensure our security of supply, we need to make significant improvements in the quality and capacity of our infrastructure, our transport networks and our storage facilities.
In a few days, on 5 December, we will reach the transposition deadline and the Commission will begin following up on the implementation of the directive, in order to ensure that the appropriate incentives have been put in place and that suitable subsidy measures have been taken, which will allow the binding targets to be achieved.
The Member States must concentrate on creating the ideal conditions for the use of renewable energy.
These include distribution and transmission networks which must be prepared for the development and increase in renewable energy and which must also guarantee priority access for renewable energy.
My final question is: In your opinion, which states have been relatively successful in meeting the 2020 objectives and which have not? (RO) Bearing in mind that the energy and climate change package already imposes certain targets on Member States for reducing polluting emissions and increasing energy efficiency, I would like to ask you what measures you are taking to support businesses in industrial sectors which are major consumers of energy in modernising their facilities so that they become more energy efficient and cause less pollution.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks, we will be submitting to you, the European Parliament, the Council and the Member States our proposal on how we plan to achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
Looking at the three targets which you have set us, with regard to the 20% reduction in CO2 emissions, we are making good progress towards this objective.
I am sure that, if we continue with our current efforts, we will reach or even exceed the target of 20% less CO2 in 10 years.
The Baltic States, with targets of 25%, 40% and 23%, have also been very successful and their figures are above the European average in this important area.
The target of a 20% increase in energy efficiency is the one which gives me most concern.
The Commission encourages a shift from institutional to community-based care and is working closely with the Member States and, in particular, the managing authorities of the ESF and the ERDF and NGOs in this field.
Thus, projects are being financed in Bulgaria and Slovakia.
In addition, one of the aims of the European Disability Strategy for 2010 to 2020, which the Commission adopted on 15 November, is to give impetus to Member States' efforts to ease the transition from institutional to community-based care.
Conditionality was one of the main discussion points and, as regards the European Social Fund, the situation described by Mrs Göncz is being covered, and we would like to develop conditionality in that sense.
This particular programme was in the range of EUR 39 million but there are also similar ones not only in Bulgaria, but also in Slovakia.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, when Mr Mitchell tabled these questions on 7 October, the situation was not the same as it is today in Ireland and in the Irish banking sector.
Following much discussion on Anglo Irish, this restructuring plan was presented by the Irish Government on 26 October.
We had been working on this draft restructuring plan from the time the government presented us with the document until last Sunday, when the Irish Government decided to ask for a programme making use of the different mechanisms to support Member States in the euro area with financial difficulties.
In this framework, I can give you some more precise answers on the Anglo Irish Bank restructuring plan presented by the Irish Government that will be considered by my services pending a decision.
With regard to the specific issue of Anglo, is it the view of the Commission that Anglo is different to the existing clearing banks, as we call them in Ireland, like Allied Irish Banks, Bank of Ireland, Ulster Bank and so on?
In the case of Bank of Ireland, we adopted a positive decision on the restructuring plan.
In the case of the Allied Irish Bank, we are also negotiating the conditions of the restructuring plan.
In the case of two building societies, EBS and INBS, we are also considering the restructuring of these financial institutions.
I have to say that in two cases, the Anglo Irish Bank and the INBS building society, we are working on a winding-down scenario.
The experience acquired to date will be useful in developing procedures for future culture programmes.
Following calls from EU sports ministers and the European Council in 2008, the Commission committed itself to further strengthening the dialogue and to giving international sports organisations a more prominent place in the dialogue with the European Union.
The next forum will take place in February 2011 in Budapest, where the Commission intends to present its communication on a new EU sports agenda to sports stakeholders.
The treaty also recognises the importance of protecting the physical and moral integrity of sportspeople, especially young people.
I understand he is going to present a Green Paper in 2011 in order to start the consultation on this very important issue.
On 6 August 2010, a report was submitted by the Greek Government to the Council and the Commission discussing the implementation of those tax measures, as well as of wide-ranging structural reforms.
The honourable Member can refer to the communication from the Commission to the Council of 19 August 2010 for a detailed and thorough assessment of the measures adopted in the first half of 2010 by Greece to comply with Council Decision 2010/320/EC of 10 May 2010.
Moreover, within the framework of the planned fiscal adjustment, the choice of the mix between expenditure and revenue measures made by the Greek Government takes into account important social and economic aspects, in particular, in terms of potential complementarities with a package of structural reforms and measures to improve the micro-economic environment and the functioning of the public sector. (EL) Commissioner, I should like to ask the European Commission the following supplementary question: as a party to the memorandum, what recommendations does it intend to make to Greece, bearing in mind that the current high level of taxation has already resulted in the closure or relocation of businesses to other, more tax-lenient, neighbouring countries and, at the same time, in a reduction in incoming investment capital, the return on capital and entrepreneurship in general. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to come back to an issue raised in my honourable friend's question.
I would like to ask you if the Commission believes that these tax measures really have led to the spiralling inflation that is undermining the competitiveness of the Greek economy and what measures you are proposing to the Greek Government to address this issue.
In the EU, 1.5 million tonnes of sea cargo and 12 million tonnes of air cargo are checked each year.
Using the provisions of European mutual assistance in customs matters and a number of agreements concluded between the EU and third countries, OLAF organises joint customs operations between EU Member States and with third countries aimed at targeting specific problems, such as Operation Matthew II, targeting road traffic on the eastern border, or Operation Sirocco, focused on deep-sea container transports from China to the Union.
Moreover, cooperation agreements were signed with British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco Limited in 2010, and agreements were signed with Philip Morris International and Japan Tobacco International in 2004 and 2007 respectively.
It is true, as you rightly pointed out, that China is still a major source of counterfeited cigarettes, so we have to work in close cooperation with them in order to tackle this issue.
Member of the Commission. - Do you mean these three questions on the CCCTB?
In addition, fair tax competition based on rates offers more transparency and allows Member States to consider both their market competitiveness and budgetary needs in fixing their tax rates.
This initiative is included in the Commission work programme for 2011 as a strategic initiative to tap the potential of the single market for growth.
It is also quoted as a key proposal in the Single Market Act, which was adopted on 27 October 2010.
Currently, the existence of 27 highly disparate corporate tax systems in the EU means that companies are faced with significant tax obstacles and an administrative burden which discourage, if not impede, their activities in the single market and negatively affect their competitiveness, in particular, in the case of SMEs.
I understand this because, when dealing with 27 different Member States with 27 different corporate tax systems, it is really a mess for them.
Throughout bilateral discussions with potential investors, they really emphasise the issue of 27 corporate tax systems as an impediment to facilitating foreign direct investment.
