The rules are the same as ever: one minute for a question, one minute for an answer and, in the event that any of the political group chairs wish to ask an additional question, another question and answer lasting 30 seconds each.
That is why, last Monday, the European Union agreed on a three-pronged approach to support exports from Gaza, following a request from Prime Minister Fayyad.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, the European Council is meeting on Thursday and Friday.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, you have answered my questions with your inimitable diplomacy, but I do not want to let you get away with this.
OK, so you do not use that right, and that is a problem for the moment on this issue.
The declaration continues that, for the 41 remaining programmes, significant deficiencies have been identified at an early stage, before any reimbursement in 2009.
So my question to you is, assuming that you take political responsibility for this declaration with all its ramifications, what will be your line of action towards the Member States?
President of the Commission. - In answer to your comment, Mr Verhofstadt, let me tell you first of all that the Commission has already used its right of initiative.
Regarding the financial perspectives, I have already made a commitment to putting forward the proposal for a specific kind of Eurobond - euro project Eurobonds - and, even though I have already heard some negative comments from some capitals, I am still hopeful that this will come into being.
It is true what our Director-General said - as you mentioned - that sometimes, the Commission does not have all the necessary instruments to engage with the Member States as early as possible with regard to the way in which European Union funding is spent at national level.
A few days ago, 1 200 000 signatures were collected from European citizens asking for an independent expert report on GMOs.
We do not have a better alternative to EFSA.
That is why I am asking you this question very precisely and I would like you to start this whole debate again from scratch, instead of waiting until 2012.
Mr President, Gazprom and the Nord Stream consortium have been laying what is known as the Northern Pipeline since 9 April.
President of the Commission. - Thank you for your comments, Mr Kamiński.
President of the Commission. - One thing we have to tell the European Heads of State and Government is the following: this week, when we meet - because the Commission President is also present as a member of the European Council - we will not just be addressing one another or addressing politics or the economy, we will be addressing the markets.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, I just have a brief additional question: are there any other instruments that are still under discussion?
Mr Barroso, remember: we have discussed this before here.
President of the Commission. - I would not expect you, Mr Farage, to make common cause with the Russians - because that is what you are suggesting, that you agree with them!
Frankly, I was elected by this Parliament, by secret vote, so I think I deserve the respect of this Parliament, from all Members of the Parliament. (Applause) The European Union of 27 democracies has an original way of electing a President of the Commission precisely because we are not a state.
You may like it or not - I like it more than you! - but in fact, I have been elected by this Parliament and there is a President of the European Council who was designated by the Heads of State and Government.
President of the Commission. - The election in Parliament was an open election.
The European Union collectively can engage with China, and that is what we have been doing.
When we have believed there is evidence of dumping for instance, we have launched anti-dumping measures regarding China.
It was not easy because some Member States opposed those measures, but we took them.
President of the Commission. - It is clear that the Commission will be successful if it has the full support of our Member States.
Regarding exchange rates, as you know, the European Union was in the front line at the last G20 attempting to ensure that this issue is addressed constructively and cooperatively, because we believe the matter should also be discussed when we address the problems of major imbalances in the world economy.
I asked the Chair of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Human Rights if we could revisit the investigation that Parliament carried out in 2007 into the activities of the United States Central Intelligence Agency in Europe, over which I had the honour of presiding.
The question I would like to put to you is very simple: is the Barroso Commission prepared to cooperate in a fully transparent manner with the European Parliament again?
In June, we will make some concrete proposals on this issue.
Let us try to build the necessary consensus, because I think that this is one of the ways to address our current problem.
The Member States need to provide all the clarifications, and I am confident that they will do so, like the democratic states that they are.
President of the Commission. - I believe we are not completely prepared for that, which is why the Commission recently put forward some proposals on fighting this kind of cyber attack.
Regarding the cyber attacks that you have mentioned, let me tell you that the United States State Department denies having issued any direct instructions to PayPal, Visa or MasterCard, so I do not have any comment to make on decisions by companies to service - or not to service - WikiLeaks.
Regarding Mr Assange, an accusation has been made by the Swedish judicial system and is now being considered by the British judicial system.
Regarding the other comments you made about some of the things in WikiLeaks, I do not think it is right for me to comment.
The comments are attributed to United States diplomats and are therefore their responsibility.
We do not have to comment on specific leaks, whether they come from WikiLeaks or elsewhere. (EL) Mr President, I think that we are still missing the point.
First of all, I am absolutely flabbergasted - and I would like to know if you are equally flabbergasted - at the unbelievable silence on the part of the European bodies about this suppression of freedom of speech.
My question is very specific: what will you do to ensure that the European public can access the WikiLeaks website?
This is an important issue, not only for NATO but also for our bilateral relations with the United States.
Some Member States - I presume your country also - have already been subject to cyber attacks.
I do not believe that many people are too concerned about the individual involved here.
Not so long ago, the European Union witnessed cyber attacks against public and private organisations in Estonia and in Lithuania, in 2007 and 2008 respectively.
The Commission recently responded to this alarming situation by proposing, on 30 September, a proposal for a directive on attacks against information systems, repealing the relevant framework decision from 2005.
I would like us to consider three points: 1.
This is a case of fumus persecutionis, because the accusations are very weak; 2.
We believed that the Commission and the Council had not respected Article 6 of the Treaty and we urged them to ascertain the truth about what had happened and to take action if appropriate under Article 7, which means sanctions of human rights abuses.
The Commission has a completely clean record on that matter, and we are ready to work with the Parliament in full transparency on all those matters.
The Commission has given this Parliament all the cooperation it has requested - and in full transparency - on the matters that you have just mentioned. (DE) Mr President, the Internet platform WikiLeaks is publishing - to put it simply - confidential information, and, naturally, that is always very unpleasant for the parties involved.
On the one hand, WikiLeaks servers are being attacked and, on the other, supporters of WikiLeaks are bombarding the web servers of Visa and MasterCard in order to bring them down.
President of the Commission. - First of all, we are not planning any kind of action against WikiLeaks.
I am offering to provide, in an organised manner, those Members of Parliament who so wish with a complete briefing on the technical measures that we can take at European level. (RO) Mr President, I would like to ask you a question about recent events involving attacks on Visa, MasterCard and PayPal by hackers, with the intention of sabotaging their financial operations and causing financial losses.
I am sure that those on the other side of the Atlantic are concerned as well, so that is why I think we should work together on increasing cyber security, always respecting the fundamental freedoms - because freedom of expression is a sacred right for us in the European Union - while being clear that data protection and privacy are also fundamental rights.
Colleagues, we had 21 names on the list but only 14 of you could take the floor.
