The participants have very widely differing perspectives, something that was evident just recently during the latest official negotiating round in Tianjin, at which very limited progress was made.
In addition, the developed countries must demonstrate that they are indeed meeting their financial commitments, particularly with regard to the fast-start financing.
The European Union and its Member States have presented the first in-depth, transparent report on the implementation of these financial commitments and will have contributed EUR 2.2 billion in 2010.
I am also looking forward to working with you in Cancún.
It is very clear that the legally-binding deal that the EU was ready for last year and that we are still ready for will, unfortunately, not be the outcome of Cancún - not because of us, but because others are not ready for it.
One thing I would like to emphasise is that we, the European Union, must remain clear on our conditions for a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
The conditions attached to a possible second commitment period are very important for environmental integrity and the ambition of the future climate regime.
A main priority for us in Cancún will be not to start reopening the Copenhagen Accord and not to start backtracking from what we already have.
But we still need EUR 200 million from Member States in order to be exactly where we promised to be in Copenhagen.
I really think we should use the remaining days up to Cancún to try to deliver all we pledged in Copenhagen.
But I must also say that, no matter what comes out of Cancún, I think it is crucial for us after Cancún to continue to have an intelligent climate policy with ambitious targets, whilst at the same time handling our energy challenges, as you have just been discussing.
I think that this is one of the main challenges in Cancún: whoever speaks on behalf of the European Union, our partners outside Europe can be sure that they will be met with the same kind of priorities and the same kind of messages.
Otherwise they will do exactly the opposite of what we want, in other words they will distance themselves from us.
Presenting ourselves in a credible manner in Cancún is therefore important.
The major decisions will then be taken later in Johannesburg, but we need to prepare the ground in Cancún.
Together with other specific decisions in Cancún on deforestation, technology transfer and on a way forward for a second commitment period under Kyoto, this could prepare the way for an international climate agreement in 2011.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, there is not much enthusiasm for tackling global warming at the moment, rather widespread public scepticism.
I know this Commissioner's enthusiasm for the subject.
We have got to save our resources.
We have got to become more competitive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I could have limited my speech to simply recalling the images of this summer in Russia or southern Asia, to reminding you of the absolutely urgent need to combat climate change and, since we are talking about Europe, to move immediately, or as soon as we possibly can, to a target of 30% by 2020 for greenhouse gas emissions.
Moving to 30% would mean clearly siding with those who are bringing about change, siding with those who are making tomorrow's world.
According to the Ernst &amp; Young 2010 Barometer, China and the United States are the most attractive countries for the development of renewable energy.
It is therefore absolutely essential to move to 30%, and I shall conclude by echoing the words of Barack Obama when he said that we could abandon the jobs of the future to our competitors or we could seize the opportunity of the century, as they have already begun to do.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (CS) Mr President, although I am a signatory to the resolution on the forthcoming climate conference, I also have some critical comments and reservations regarding our resolution.
I am delighted that we understand that this conference will not produce a global agreement, and everyone in this Chamber knows that without a global agreement, Europe alone, even if it ambitiously increased its own plans by 100%, would not have the slightest influence on global climate change.
In order to avoid being wholly negative, I see great promise in supporting cooperation with developing countries, and particularly in protecting drinking water, as well as in our effort to ensure access to drinking water for all citizens, particularly in developing countries.
Not only will this help the negotiation in Cancún but we need to do this for our own good.
There is a need for new long-term funding sources as well.
The global economic crisis cannot be used as an excuse to do nothing or to deny climate justice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that, both in committee and in this Chamber, I had predicted the failure of the Copenhagen climate conference and the document tabled by this House, this experience has taught us nothing.
If we persist in making unilateral requests that Europe should reduce its emissions by much greater amounts than those provided for by the Kyoto Protocol, then the next summit in Cancún - the COP16 - will also be a failure and, once again, Parliament will look terrible.
The resolution adopted in committee not only stresses that contributions to emerging countries should not be less than EUR 30 billion per year by 2020, but it also encourages the EU to promote the creation of a green climate fund, setting aside USD 100 billion per year starting from 2020.
It even asks for us to reduce CO2 emissions in the atmosphere by 30% instead of 20% by 2020 and it urges the Commission to present a proposal so that the EU sets itself these objectives unilaterally.
AGW is baseless propaganda, a Josef Goebbels-scale big lie from the green industrial complex because they favour massive transfers of wealth from the little people to carbon-trading crooks, such as Al Gore and Goldman Sachs.
I also think that what he comes out with here is scandalous, and I think that such statements have no place in this House, because the problem really is too serious for that.
Mr Griffin is also riding this wave, and I also find it shocking that the major emitters like the United States and China are not prepared to enter into an international agreement of this sort.
Recall, if you will, the debate that we had here last year prior to Copenhagen.
I should like to ask him the following: could it be that the public does indeed understand it, but simply has a different opinion from my fellow Member? (DE) Mr President, I do not know whether I have understood that correctly.
What is important is simply that we have this debate with our citizens openly and - as I said - on the basis of the World Meteorological Organisation's figures.
This is because weather is a local phenomenon and we are talking about climate, which is a long-term global phenomenon.
Therefore, my appeal for greater communication is important. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Schauvliege, Commissioner, I am concerned that we are going from one extreme to the other.
We have one major demand, and that is that the EU switch its strategy.
We should therefore take climate protection measures to protect our own interests.
Hence the call by the majority in committee, and I hope in plenary tomorrow too, for us to increase our targets from 20% to 30%.
I believe that our offer should be to establish Kyoto II.
That is the first point I should like to emphasise.
If we want to give a boost to our industries, if we want to remain the leaders or to become the leaders in new sectors, whether in energy efficiency or renewable energy, it is fundamental that we set ourselves this target in the Union.
Let us remember that deforestation amounts to 20% of greenhouse gas emissions. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those who have shown their support for a more stringent reduction in emissions in the EU to 30%.
The trouble I refer to could be the equivalent of between 3% and 5% of all their emissions, which is to say the same figure as that for the combined emissions reduction obligation for all industrialised countries under the Kyoto Protocol by 2012.
A significant factor in this is, I think, a rational policy for reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
In Parliament's motion for a resolution, which has been drafted before the Cancún conference, there is a part which mentions a significant reduction - by more than 20% - in CO2 emissions from Member States.
It seems that, in proposing a policy of this kind, the Union is not looking at the serious consequences for the economies of its Member States.
While there is such a large reduction on the part of the Union, there is a very feeble statement of the Union's position in relation to a reduction in gas emissions in the United States or the countries of Asia.
Therefore, this type of policy direction in the field of fighting global warming should be reconsidered. (DE) Mr President, the climate conference in Cancún must exert positive pressure on our states in order to make progress in terms of international cooperation and national climate protection legislation.
With regard to long-term financing, the EU must lay its cards on the table in the negotiations.
The EU must present ambitious targets for the reduction of greenhouse gases.
We will only achieve one thing by doing this, and that is to shift our own labour-intensive industries out of Europe to countries with much more relaxed legislation, lower wages and poorer working conditions.
I hope that we will learn from the experience of last year's meeting in Copenhagen and this year aim for achievable objectives instead of setting our sights on the impossible. (NL) Mr President, next week will see the United Nations climate change conference in Cancún.
There are and may be binding agreements, there are sectoral agreements, there is technology transfer and there is support for research.
If no progress is made in Cancún, the entire negotiating process will be in danger.
That is why we are relying on your efforts, efforts by the European Union, to achieve progress, even if it is only on these two issues, and to keep the negotiations as whole out of danger.
Numerous members said that we actually achieved a 17.3% reduction in emissions in 2009.
There is no reason why we should not move up to 30% or more, if we want to modernise our economy, create new jobs and become competitive once again.
The EU's position, that we should not compare reductions in LULUCF-related emissions with 1990 and should use the line of business as usual, excessive emissions and how much less we are emitting than what the targets would have been, is an absurd position.
If we make adjustments to this, will unanimity of all Member States be required once more, or will the change be made by means of a qualified majority?
It was mentioned that Cancún is expected to be an important midway step in combating climate change, and also that it cannot go further or be more ambitious than Copenhagen was or accept the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit.
I would also like to say that we have an opportunity to put ourselves to the test in Cancún on various matters that have been mentioned here, and also to test our abilities in terms of redistribution and giving support to poorer countries and the poorest people.
In order to secure that cooperation, it is very important for emissions to be disclosed, as cities produce 80% of greenhouse gases.
Europe needs to set this problem within the context of COP-16, because a change in international policy on this issue offers a serious opportunity to drastically limit emissions of greenhouse gases straight away at a very low cost and to ask countries such as China, which is currently pumping huge quantities of HFC-23 into the atmosphere, which could be reduced to zero if China used some of the money it makes in taxes on these unwarranted profits, to become involved more actively in efforts to combat climate change.
Wasting over EUR 4 billion of European taxpayers' money is unacceptable.
It is our job in the European Parliament to defend public interests and consumer interests. (PT) Mr President, the international background to this conference is not favourable: there is the global economic crisis, the political and administrative uncertainty in the US, and the stalemate in the US-China negotiations.
Expectations are therefore low, but in spite of this the Cancún Summit should be seen as an opportunity to restore confidence in the multilateral process and climate change and consolidate the Copenhagen Accord.
This is the very least that can be done, and even this requires determination and political leadership during the negotiations, along with ambitiousness in decision making.
Above all, progress needs to be made in areas that affect developing countries: funding, technology transfer and capacity building.
Regardless of the outcome of the international agreements, the European Union should pursue the objective of reducing CO2 emissions by over 20%, with a view to creating 'green' jobs and economic growth.
Voters are sick of being blamed for climate change and are no longer prepared to pay for it.
India and China will not forego progress in the name of climate alarmism.
It is the world that must fight climate change, and not Europe on its own.
Green technologies must be of benefit to the greatest number, but that does not mean that we must sell our current and future knowledge on the cheap, even for the sake of this vital battle against climate change.
It is therefore of high importance to re-establish Europe's leading position within the international climate negotiations by introducing the climate diplomacy principle, and for the European Union and its Member States to define and implement a principle of climate justice, advocating therefore an equity clause in future international climate negotiations.
Commissioner, you deserve credit for having ensured that, this time, the Union will be going to a climate conference much better prepared and I would like to thank you for that.
The agreement we reached in Copenhagen has produced some significant results, one of them definitely being the decision that we must take action to limit the global increase in temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius.
I would also respond to the proposals that the Union unilaterally reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30%.
We have to raise this target and we will raise it, but only when the circumstances are right.
However, we have to ensure that we determine the procedure for reaching that decision in advance and, of course, that the European Parliament is appropriately involved in the decision making.
Only in that way will climate change become an opportunity, rather than a burden.
Finally, on the issue of funding efforts to reduce the impact of climate change in developing countries, let me emphasise that the European Union already has a financial mechanism for that purpose, namely the European Emissions Trading Scheme or the ETS.
I believe that it would be inappropriate to create new financial burdens at a time of financial and economic crisis. (LT) Mr President, soon the world will once again receive good, or as has been the custom of late, bad news on climate change, this time from Cancún.
I would really support a unilateral step by the EU to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020.
This attitude must not win at Cancún. (IT) Mr President, Mrs Schauvliege, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe's desire to set ambitious targets ahead of the next conference on climate change is certainly a commitment to pursue with tenacity, the results of which will condition the future of our planet.
As far as we know, the preparatory international negotiations for the Cancún conference have not only failed to record appreciable progress towards a global agreement, but they have confirmed wariness and resistance to the commitments assumed at Copenhagen.
It has already been mentioned, but I should like to refer to China at this point.
For example, China is allowing itself to increase its CO2 emissions by 5 billion tonnes by 2020, with consequences that can only be compensated for by reducing Europe's industrial emissions by 100% by the same year, 2020 - and even this may not be enough.
This fact does not only render the proposal for an unconditional 30% reduction unrealistic - and we strongly oppose it - but also leads many independent observers to hypothesise an increase, even a significant increase, of global emissions by that date.
The hope is that the European Union takes a shared, realistic and sustainable proposal to Cancún, because an agreement that gives real, tangible results is always and in any case preferable to expectations which are inevitably destined to fail and make the efforts of governments on major environmental themes even less credible in international opinion, and this would be particularly difficult to repair. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Schauvliege, Commissioner, adoption of a resolution for the 16th Conference of the Parties in Mexico is the first step in a global discussion.
It is a very difficult compromise for all countries.
The main objective included in the resolution is to reach a compromise on the fight against climate change and global warming.
If we want to achieve this objective, we must win the support of the largest countries and the biggest emitters.
It is also important to have commitments which all the countries can accept.
We must also direct our attention to those countries which are very weak in terms of economic development and have poorly developed economies.
However, our aim is that money should certainly go to the poorest countries.
On behalf of all fellow Members, I would like to say I think all of us are going to keep our fingers crossed for the Commissioner.
Knowing that negotiations in the UN framework on all international issues are very difficult at the moment, I think we have to exploit action-based orientation to the full.
We have quite a range of studies showing that the EU could cut its CO2 emissions by 30% or even 40% by 2020 in a way that would be economically viable and economically profitable.
This would require, first of all, stopping harmful subsidies like the EUR 6 billion yearly in Europe for fossil fuels and more stringent, ETS legislative support, resource efficiency and energy efficiency and tools such as a more stringent eco-design directive.
It has to be driven home very strongly that global warning is a global problem that needs a global solution with global binding targets.
If by 2015 or thereabouts we have reached the 20% target, we can change it to 25% or 30%; that then would be seen as a PR success.
We have had enough of that.
It is time to box clever, to do our part but to ensure that the rest of the world does the same.
The BRIC countries cannot always appeal to their need to catch up on development as justification for their disagreement over radical measures to protect the climate.
Greater authority involves greater responsibility. (PT) Mr President, the success of the Cancún conference on climate change is vital to the credibility of the negotiating process under the auspices of the United Nations.
Even a 30% unilateral commitment makes sense only if there is real action behind it.
I agree with Mrs Hedegaard: the Union can regain its leading role only if it shows concrete results, by investing in research and development, creating green jobs, developing an intelligent energy network, and pursuing a policy of sustainable green growth. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Schauvliege, Commissioner, Parliament has already, and on numerous occasions, made a clear commitment to the climate protection measures.
The environment ministers, who are often very ambitious, are in many cases left to their own devices.
Finance and economic ministers and those with responsibility in respect of the economy hopefully also think in terms of longer timeframes.
Commissioner, under the motto 'one planet, one voice', I wish you much success in Cancún for the sake of future generations. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I greatly appreciate the presence of Commissioner Hedegaard and the stance she has taken.
I should like to thank you for your commitment to keeping Parliament continually updated on the developments for Cancún.
The fight against climate change must be conducted on a global level and with everyone's involvement, but the idea that our position must depend on that of other countries is irresponsible and does not do justice to the role that the EU has set itself, namely a leading role in guiding cultural revolutions at a global level, primarily the fight against climate change.
We must set ourselves ever more ambitious targets and ensure that they are reached by the various Member States.
I therefore thank the Commissioner for having reminded Italy, a few days ago, to maintain its financial promises of EUR 200 million to combat climate change.
I would therefore ask the Commission to use all the powers available to it to make the Member States keep their promises, particularly when it is a matter of such a significant battle for the near future of the people of the world ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Mr President, the European Union had a role in the failure of Copenhagen and in halting progress in international negotiations.
Commissioner, we can trace the causes of climate change back to the irrationality of this economic and social system.
I should like to have your opinion in public on these two propositions before tomorrow's vote.
Firstly, on the creation of a green fund that would finally let us have USD 100 million a year from 2020 to spend on aid to the poorest countries.
Secondly, on the introduction of a 0.01% tax on financial transactions that would result in a fund of EUR 20 billion, also for the purposes of aid to the poorest countries.
I believe that this is an important topic of a financial nature which would enable us to move forward more quickly and further. (DE) Mr President, the aim of the climate conference is to establish a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.
We urgently need to make progress in combating climate change.
In these difficult times in particular, the strengthening of environmental policy will also provide a substantial opportunity for economic policy, for example through investment in renewable energies and energy efficiency. (SK) Mr President, for two decades now, talks have been dragging on over climate change at international forums.
The Kyoto Protocol will cease to apply in 2012, and the fiasco of last year's climate conference in Copenhagen gives no hope of an early change for the better.
The climate talks in October only confirmed the schism between the so-called advanced world and the so-called developing world, and there will therefore be much to do in Cancún.
In the first place, we need to reduce the volume of domestic emissions dramatically.
If the rich countries buy permits from the poor countries in order to carry on producing emissions, it will not help the climate in any way. (EL) Mr President, the question before us is: will we be able to move forward on climate change in Cancún.
It seems to me that our position and our targets really do set the pace in terms of the changes needed in order to pre-empt ecological disaster.
The Union's positions are still the right positions and we must not only clarify them at this conference; we must fight to obtain much better results than we had in Copenhagen.
That is of course true, but it is also true that if we compare our current position to two ago - or to five or ten years ago - we can see that climate is very much up on the agenda today.
By setting targets, Europe showed the way in 2008; and in the run-up to Copenhagen, a lot of economies followed.
Now in a lot of countries, these domestic targets will lead to some kind of paradigm shift.
We must try to build on that in Cancún, and we will.
We are facing some challenges in that respect, and that is part of our 'to do' list for Cancún: to try to take some steps forward in the reforms that are necessary in the CDM system.
There has been a very fine cooperation with and involvement from Parliament, which is needed in order to reach a successful conclusion with the Member States.
If we really get a decision on forestry, on adaptation, on technology, on the delivery of fast-start finance, on how to measure, report and verify carbon markets, and on the different elements that we have mentioned here, then I think it is substantial progress.
I think that we should continue down this path, and that this will also be crucial in the coming days and weeks, both in Cancún and at the climate change conference itself.
The Commissioner has answered many of the points, but I should like to mention some more aspects myself.
I know from personal experience, having attended the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP 10) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in Nagoya, that the European Union can indeed do this, and also that this is the only right way to achieve a good outcome.
We must consider not only the experiences from Nagoya but also last year's bad experiences from Copenhagen, and learn from these.
We have to be realistic, but we also have to make every effort to ensure that a good outcome is achieved in Cancún, too - a balanced package of measures.
We shall do so together with all the Member States, with the European Commission and with your support; we must ensure in this way that, on the strength of the confidence restored in Nagoya - where action at multilateral level succeeded in reaching an agreement once again - we are able to continue in this vein in Cancún and are also able to restore hope for the climate.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 November 2010.
This is even more outrageous in light of the fact that at international climate negotiations the Commission is doing everything in its power to block new accession states from maintaining Kyoto quotas that form part of their national wealth.
It does this in spite of the fact that there are actual emissions reductions behind the quotas that former socialist countries, including Hungary, are entitled to, for which Eastern European countries have paid a considerable price since the regime change.
It should therefore come as no surprise to us, ladies and gentlemen, that with such double standards the EU will not have a uniform stance in Cancún, as was the case in Copenhagen.
in writing. - (PT) I advocate a binding agreement featuring an international system of sanctions for the climate summit in Cancún that begins next Monday.
The EU has been a leader in combating climate change, and should be encouraged to build on this leadership, although without forgetting the tremendous efforts that our industries have already made to respond to the mandatory reductions in emissions within Europe.
On the contrary, I believe that, even if others do not go along with us, we should continue to focus our efforts on scientific research, technological innovation relating to non-carbon energy sources, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs, in order to increase our competitiveness.
in writing. - (HU) Towards a post-Kyoto Protocol ...
The 16th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change to be held in December in Mexico has even greater significance after the unsuccessful Copenhagen summit.
Even if no agreement can be reached on figures and percentages in Cancún, it is absolutely essential that the Convention states agree on concrete plans and commitments, thus preparing the way for the conclusion of a post-Kyoto Protocol in South Africa in 2011.
I would like to start by pointing out that the climate change conference in Cancún is another big chance to do something for future generations, and at least partly make up for what we failed to do in Copenhagen.
We must adopt a responsible and long-term solution.
We must support a major reduction in the production of emissions, we must bring together regions, towns and the countryside to protect the environment, we must try to create more green jobs, and we must support investment in research and innovation.
The climate negotiations in Cancún start in only a week.
Therefore, during the 16th Conference of the Parties, the European Union should contribute to a restoration of confidence in international negotiations on climate change.
Now in Cancún, specific relevant measures need to be worked out, on the basis of which it will be possible to make a comprehensive international agreement in South Africa in 2011.
