Conclusions of the European Council meeting (28-29 October) and economic governance (continuation of debate) We now continue with the debate on the Conclusions of the European Council meeting (28-29 October) and economic governance. (NL) Mr President, listening to today's debate one thing stands out, and that is the big issue - important to almost all the political groups - of economic governance.
This would enable the repayment of debts, in all our Member States.
We have no doubt that the only way to confront and tackle this crisis is through more Community method, through more economic governance and through the instruments appropriate to a true single currency in the euro area.
It is also clear today that the same applies to the Commission and its President, who has demonstrated that he is not beholden to the Council or Parliament, but is working for European interests, contrary to the claims of the socialists and Mrs Ferreira.
For more than 20 years, most of Europe has been used to living and consuming today, at the expense of tomorrow, and even the day after tomorrow - at the expense of the next generations, whose numbers are dramatically dwindling.
Member States outside the euro area watch in astonishment as the euro area cracks on all fronts.
The embrace by the European Union of globalism has made European countries prey to competition from emerging economies, especially China, with which we cannot compete.
European countries must individually - my preference - or collectively protect their employers and employees from this unfair competition.
I wonder if the time has not come, given the significant challenges that lie ahead of us, to have a major debate with our national colleagues and the European Parliament on the communitisation and pooling of our public spending.
This audit would be issued to MPs and MEPs to allow for a major debate on public spending and could be entrusted to the European Court of Auditors and to the 27 national courts of auditors.
This is an idea I should like to propose in order to ensure that our public spending is scrutinised and managed better at European level. (SK) Mr President, the European Council meeting was marked by expectations of how Europe's leaders would deal with the problems presented to them by the economic recession.
I will ask Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuy to tell me please - you are speaking in a couple of minutes - what is your plan B?
Member States have been affected across the spectrum.
Please tell us if you have got one. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my delight with the fact that the importance of system-wide pension reforms was acknowledged in the course of the consultation.
We need more employment, more growth, fast-tracking, more jobs, the implementation of the EU strategy, rationalisation and restructuring in corporate governance, transparency in economic governance, verification of national statistics and a permanent joint crisis management mechanism in the European Union, but solely for the benefit of European citizens.
We need both community solidarity and coordinated action. (NL) Mr President, the euro area is now collapsing, and President Barroso has to oversee this collapse.
For example, one in three Greek workers is a civil servant; the tsunami of non-Western immigrants to Europe has also cost each country billions, and those immigrants are now at home without jobs.
But another thing that is going to be very important is that the supervisory architecture being put in place from 1 January must work, so that the stress tests and so forth are sufficient to recognise what is happening in the future and people are brought to heel if they are getting out of hand. (LT) Mr President, it is really very good that we are now beginning to talk about very important matters, that is, the joint management of the future economy.
I believe that soon we will also be discussing a possible common fiscal system.
In conclusion I would therefore like to call on the European Commission to offer its proposals much more actively in future, because the situation is complex and it will require huge efforts, huge financial resources and perhaps a completely different understanding of economic, financial and other types of monitoring. (SL) Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Barroso, allow me to join this debate briefly.
Under these circumstances, it is only right that taxpayers from those countries that are dealing with the current situation are not silenced. (RO) Mr President, I welcome the fact that the report on economic governance provides a new basis for setting up a viable system for how we function in this respect.
I think that the recommendations made in the report on more robust institutions for much more effective economic governance, such as the creation at national level of a public institution which will provide independent analyses, assessments and forecasts for internal fiscal policy issues, form the basis for creating a transparent European system.
Of course, there are Members who like to come and conduct national politics in Parliament, as is the case with Mrs Ferreira. (PT) Mr President, the European Union is facing a time of major reforms.
It therefore needs to provide a response to the crisis and to uphold a single currency which needs rules of its own, applied to all Member States.
Parliament has already taken a leading position in relation to economic governance, whereby it is advocating greater cooperation on growth between the 27 Member States, a firm stance on the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact and solidarity between the Member States, having been the first institution, as such, to draw attention to the need for a fund for the debt of the different countries that make up the EU.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I will answer two concrete questions and also make a general remark after the debate that took place this morning.
We, together with President Van Rompuy, are doing our work, discussing the issues with responsibility with our Member States.
Together we cannot go beyond what is established by common agreement with our Member States.
I am absolutely convinced that the situation would be much worse if we did not have the euro. (Applause) Some of you tend to forget that some countries that are not in the euro area have exactly the same problems, in some cases even worse problems of sovereign debt, and that a country that is not even in the European Union and that is now asking to join the European Union - Iceland - went bankrupt, and they do not have the euro.
I think they have all understood that there is a common interest in a common approach to resolve this crisis.
I can assure you that if we had had that mechanism a few years ago, the problems some countries have experienced would never have surfaced.
They are implementing reforms that have often gone against the major tides of public opinion.
I would therefore say that we need to cooperate at all political levels in order to achieve a more consistent position than we have at the moment.
If we had been more cautious both in terms of the macro-economy and budget planning, we would not be in this situation today.
In some countries - not those facing the problems already mentioned - growth will stand at around 2%, and in other countries it will be as high as 3% or 3.5%.
Furthermore, the European Council has also decided on a reform of the treaties in order to implement the crisis management mechanism.
Both Greece and Ireland have had to turn to the European Union for assistance.
Council President Rompuy should not amend Article 125 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which states that every country shall be liable for its own obligations.
If the anti-crisis mechanism operated under Article 122 on the provision of funding to individual states, the Council would decide on the basis of a Commission proposal, and they would only inform the European Parliament.
