One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure). (EL) Mr President, apart from the pressure from financial quanta, the insecurity in the euro area ... (The President cut off the speaker and asked for order in the House) Ladies and gentlemen, please do not talk in the Chamber during the plenary sitting unless you can do so quietly.
By the same token, I repeat my proposal to create a European credit rating authority. (ES) Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity in this House today, as I was unable to do so on the 'European Day for the Victims of Terrorism' on 11 March, to pay a well-deserved tribute to these victims in recognition of the enormous sacrifice made by those who have paid the ultimate price in the name of freedom.
There is talk of losses of EUR 42 million a day.
I call on you all to vote for one of these challenges and to disseminate information about this initiative in your respective countries so that, as Jean Monnet would say, our personal participation enables us to progress towards a European Union for individuals, towards a European Union for the public. (BG) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, democracy requires institutions whose task is to monitor civil rights to be independent of state and party authorities.
Mr President, it must be ensured that protection from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is respected as a human right. (LT) On 24 February, together with representatives from Latvia and Poland, I submitted a written declaration on equal treatment for farmers in the European Union, which draws attention to the unequal subsidising of farmers in EU Member States.
This is in addition to the GBP 8 billion if Greece defaults on its debts, and GBP 5 billion in loan guarantees to Latvia and Hungary.
The invocation of Article 122 of the Lisbon Treaty is the loosest interpretation of legislation I have ever witnessed and, in my opinion, demonstrates a sort of political hoodwinking that proves that every paragraph of every article of every treaty is not even worth the paper it is printed on.
We, in Slovenia, still have to vote on this, in a referendum scheduled for 6 June this year.
Last week's governance proposal from the European Commission contained some good ideas: for instance, much more emphasis on fiscal policy and a clear coordination in fiscal policies between Member States.
On 6 May, the journalist, Zouhair Makhlouf, was arrested and manhandled by the police while on his way to a dinner with the former president of the Bar of Paris.
On 18 May, the journalist, Fahem Boukadous, will no doubt be sentenced to four years' imprisonment.
To report on the social unrest in the Gafsa Basin and on the repression that followed it.
The lawyers Abderraouf Ayadi, Ayachi Hammami, Mohamed Abbou and Radhia Nasraoui are the victims of constant intimidation.
The tangible results achieved in this respect are being applauded both by Bulgaria's international partners and civil society within the country.
The BSP (Bulgarian Socialist Party) is the direct successor to the Communist Party in Bulgaria, in the same way as the Left Party in Germany.
For example, the Mayor of Kardzhali himself has been investigated 138 times during the last year, 13 times alone for the same project.
More than 700 checks have been carried out on the 30 municipalities with DPS (Movement for Rights and Freedoms) mayors in less than a year, whereas municipalities with GERB (Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria) mayors have been spared such checks.
