10th anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women and peace and security (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission concerning the 10th anniversary of the adoption of UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women and peace and security.
Allow me, first of all, Mr President, to thank the European Parliament for its continued interest in the topic of women, peace and security, and to point out - although you obviously know this - that Parliament was the first institution, just one month after the adoption of resolution 1325, to call for its implementation by means of a resolution within this institution.
We now have a significantly enhanced international framework, in particular, thanks to the adoption, in 2009, of resolutions 1888 and 1889.
However, the situation persists, and the reality is that the protection of women in conflict situations and their participation in peacekeeping and reconstruction processes still fall short of the pledges made and of the needs on the ground.
In less than two years, this programme has funded projects in 67 countries, with over EUR 300 million provided in total.
In 2011, we plan to launch some specific projects to support women's networks in crisis-affected countries, with an estimated budget of EUR 2 million.
Furthermore, as regards renewed and measurable commitments, we plan to develop, by the end of the year, some standard training elements on gender, human rights and children's rights which will be used to train the personnel of CSDP missions; to develop, by 2013, local strategies to implement resolution 1325 in development cooperation in at least 60% of conflict and post-conflict countries; and, lastly, to report regularly on the implementation of the EU's women, peace and security commitments, by using the 17 indicators that were adopted in July 2010.
On 26 October, the European Union took part in a debate at the Security Council to mark the 10th anniversary of resolution 1325.
The European Union has accordingly made strong calls for increased international monitoring of resolution 1325, in particular by emphasising all the indicators developed by the Secretary-General.
Firstly, I would like to say that I entirely agree with what the President-in-Office of the Council said: there is clear progress, with more than 20 national action plans established worldwide, as well as the appointment of the first United Nations Special Representative for violence against women in armed conflicts.
Thirdly, the European Union must set an example by applying resolution 1325 and the resolutions implementing it.
The European Union must also take other steps; for example, the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative, Baroness Ashton, has appointed the first female EU Special Representative for Sudan, Dame Rosalind Marsden.
Recently, over 8 000 women were raped in eastern Congo within a span of five days, but there is also the issue of refugee camps, such as Camp Ashraf, where women are not safe to this day.
Mr President, it is 10 years since UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was adopted.
Finally, we need to show the international community that we mean what we say.
Their emancipation and protection are the sine qua non in putting a stop to the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
Mr President, exactly 10 years ago, women's rights as a fundamental element of human rights first became a topic for discussion by the UN Security Council following a call for gender equality in conflict and crisis situations.
The Secretary General at the time, Kofi Annan, made an urgent call in 2005 for national action plans to be drawn up for the implementation of resolution 1325.
We have already heard that only 20 states have so far done this, including European countries such as Sweden and Great Britain, but also African countries, for example, Liberia and the Côte d'Ivoire.
I believe that all the EU Member States should adopt action plans of this kind.
A new UN Special Representative on Sexual Violence has been appointed and the UN Entity for Gender Equality has been established.
This is about providing support for women and girls who have been the victims of sexual violence.
Mr Chastel's message on behalf of Baroness Ashton concerning the provision of EUR 2 million to support this resolution is a very positive one.
Mr President, women and children are victims in wars and conflict situations.
They have been recognised, among other things, as a result of the appointment of Margot Wallström to the post of UN Special Representative.
However, women are not just victims; they are important players in peace and security work for the prevention of conflicts.
Madam President, UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is one of the latest serious documents in which all of the nations of the world declare their respect and reverence for the fairer sex.
The advanced civilised countries subscribe to their commitments arising from UN Security Council resolution 1325 and strive, through various measures, to create the greatest possible space for applying these in national and international institutions involved in conflict resolution and the organisation of peace processes.
It is therefore also necessary to take measures in EU policy to exert greater and more intensive pressure on those regimes which do not respect the basic human rights of their citizens and inhabitants. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us could easily answer the question as to which major group of people is essentially excluded from decision making, or is only minimally involved in it, while, at the same time, having to bear the consequences of political, economic and financial decisions to a very large extent.
The first course of action: I believe we should be convinced of the need for the European Union to promote local women's organisations in all those conflict situations in which it intervenes.
However, today, 10 years on from that resolution, thousands of women are still being raped in war-torn countries, such as Congo for example.
I hope that the 17 other Member States will soon have one of their own.
We must never forget the important role women play in resolving conflicts or the need to establish communication that is based on trust between the forces of international institutions and local populations. (PT) Madam President, highlighting the effect of wars and conflicts on women and children is of the utmost importance at a time as critical as this, when wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are dragging on, severe conflicts are being fuelled, such as in the Israeli-occupied territories of Palestine, or the Western Sahara occupied by Morocco, inequalities are increasing, poverty is being exacerbated by neoliberal policies, and new threats are arising, as happened this weekend in Lisbon with the NATO summit and the adoption of its new strategic concept.
The protesters will demand new policies which respect the dignity of workers and promote development and social progress, a prerequisite for peace. (SK) Madam President, I, too, would like to emphasise the historical importance of Security Council resolution 1325 for peace and for security policy.
It was the first time that the UN emphasised the importance of the protection of women and their full involvement in creating peace, maintaining peace and preventing conflicts.
However, abuse of women is often still a major characteristic of conflicts.
What is more, there has been an alarming increase in frequent and systematic violence against women both during and after conflicts.
I will not give any concrete figures, but it is surely worth mentioning the horrific events that have taken place in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Darfur, Rwanda, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Bosnia.
Protection of women and enabling their participation in the creation of peace and security is the main aim of resolution 1325.
The promise made in resolution 1325 can only really be honoured by avoiding conflict and taking only civil measures in war and conflict situations.
I am calling for the EU to stop providing support on principle, including aid for equipment and training, to regimes and military forces which send child soldiers into armed conflicts, violate human rights or commit systematic acts of sexual violence. (PT) Madam President, the resolutions of the Security Council and plans for supporting development have already been mentioned, with emphasis on the advances that have been made, but the fact is that women continue to be the main victims of armed conflicts.
Women should participate in the entire process of preventing and resolving conflicts.
I turn the House's attention to the situation in Northern Ireland, where we have a very active women's sector - a sector that has been a force for good within the country.
These are areas that have been ravaged by over 30 years of violence inflicted through a terrorist campaign by Irish Republicans and intra-community violence.
Throughout that time, groups like the Women's Centre have been a cohesive force, enhancing community capacity and forging links with other women's groups in other communities.
This is the way forward, colleagues. (RO) Madam President, I hope that this debate which we are having today will not only be an occasion for marking the anniversary of resolution 1325, but also a new beginning and new approach to this issue, which persists virtually in the same forms that led to the adoption of resolution 1325.
The other aspects of involvement must undoubtedly be supported by consistent financial assistance based on a strategy for our development projects. (SK) Madam President, we are marking the 10th anniversary of UN resolution 1325, and there are almost daily reports of other resolutions and declarations aiming to help women.
She has taken some steps in this direction, for example, by appointing Rosalind Marsden as the EU's first female Special Representative to Sudan.
The Union believes that the Security Council should establish a working group to examine the progress made in implementing resolution 1325 and to make recommendations to the Council in order to meet the challenges and remedy the shortcomings that exist and to speed up the implementation of that resolution.
I have received six motions for a resolution from the various political groups on this subject.
The thousands of women falling victim to sexual abuse and violence are also being condemned to bear in the future the social stigma and burden of terrible diseases, such as HIV.
The International Day against Violence against Women, which we mark on 25 November, must also remind us that women are victims of domestic violence, which is occurring with alarming frequency, marital rape, sexual harassment and human trafficking.
This is why it is necessary to return to these issues and look carefully at the way in which legislation which has been adopted is brought into force, so that on the 15th or 20th anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1325, it will be possible to say that all of its provisions have been implemented.
