Dual-use items and technology (debate) Τhe next item is the report by Mr Leichtfried, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the Community regime for the control of exports of dual-use items and technology - C7-0062/2010 -.
This report is essentially about a practice that somehow always ends up in the shadows of reports, but which, on the other hand, safeguards jobs and, in my opinion, must be regulated throughout Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, before us we have a subject that affects trade and security to equal degrees.
We do not want the principle of ex ante control - which the Committee on International Trade and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have followed - to now be replaced by the principle of ex post control.
However, these general authorisations are also intended to enable European exporters and small and medium-sized enterprises to plan reliably.
Finally, I would like to stress once again that this regulation is intended to contribute to a facilitation of the procedure and a reduction in bureaucracy.
When we started working on this case, the Commission asked us to amend a regulation dating from 2000.
Meanwhile, this has been revoked and we were called on to amend the more recent 2009 regulation on the basis of the same obsolete proposal.
Parliament has already limited the maximum value from EUR 5 000 to 3 000 and imposed various other criteria.
For this reason, we have drawn up Amendment 47, and I would ask for your support for this amendment in the interests of the developing countries. (DE) Mr President, nuclear fuels, chemicals and computer programmes can be used for peaceful purposes, but they can also be used for military purposes.
It also makes this legislation important in terms of simplifying and harmonising the way in which we handle products in Europe that can be used for both civil and military purposes.
For example, it makes it more difficult to send important telecommunications equipment to countries that need it. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank you very much, if I may, for giving me the floor.
I therefore think that we should aim to ensure that all EU Member States apply the same high standards in respect of the export of civilian products which can be used for military purposes.
We also agree with you that some kind of reporting mechanism is necessary - without, of course, posing an exaggerated burden on small and medium-sized companies in particular.
However, some kind of reporting mechanism would be necessary, and I hope that you will be able to reach a conclusion with the Council on these remaining issues later.
