I can do no better than to read out the voting list of what we have been voting on today: subsidies to SI/Mura in Slovenia, to Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG in Germany, to the automotive industry in Wielkopolskie in Poland, to the retail trade in Aragón in Spain, to the textile sector in the Comunidad Valenciana in Spain, to the manufacture of natural stone products in the Comunidad Valenciana in Spain, to Lear in Spain, and to H.
Cegielski-Poznań in Poland.
We are reaching the moment when, as in George Orwell's magnificent metaphor, the people will shake off the system like a horse shaking off flies. (LT) Mr President, today, the European Parliament demonstrated a strong position by taking a step towards deeper cooperation between the European Union and the South Caucasus.
The South Caucasus and Georgia are regions that are strategically important for the EU.
My country, Lithuania, has always had a special relationship with Georgia.
This country has made huge efforts to be part of Europe and therefore, we must assess them accordingly.
The EU is sending them a message that we expect them to become members of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, we cannot allow the huge sum of money we spend on cohesion policy to be wasted or squandered.
In order for there to be proper vertical and horizontal cooperation, procedures must be streamlined, and more money spent on the training of specialists from implementing bodies in the individual Member States.
We also need to support modernisation and expansion of the IT system, which will ensure easy and equal access to information for all beneficiaries. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the rapporteur that we should proceed towards multi-level governance for greater involvement of sub-national authorities in drawing up development policies, above all, in the convergence objective areas, which are interested in increasing their ability to come into line with the areas of the Member States and to compete on the global market.
In order for the regional development policies to be more effective, we need to involve those who know their own regions and can help drive their development.
Greater assistance for the Managing Authorities from the Commission would contribute to reducing the mistakes made in the past at the first level of controls. (HU) Mr President, the controllability and efficiency of regional policy contributes to the security of the economic and social status of EU citizens.
I voted on the course of good governance laid out by Parliament because I agree that the key to the progress of our countries lies in closer regional cooperation.
Priority multi-level governance is precisely what may help local regional authorities and the private and public sectors to find each other.
The idea formulated with regard to implementation, according to which the local and regional authorities must also be involved in policy making, also deserves support.
The large number of participants involved in the policy at Community, national, regional and local level represents both opportunities and uncertainties.
The framework set up by the EU must ensure an appropriate balance between the two. (FI) Mr President, firstly, I want to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Mǎnescu, for her excellent work.
When we talk about good governance, we are talking, above all, about impartial, fair governance in the European Union's regional policy. (FI) Mr President, the immigration issue is a very topical one throughout the European Union.
We also need to try and act in a way where we are becoming more objective in these matters in Europe.
For that reason, alongside the creation of a liaison officer network, it is also important to establish codes of ethics and values for it, as a point of reference when immigration policy is being laid down.
It is important that migrants can integrate and accept fundamental European values when they are resident in the European Union. (CS) Mr President, I would like to talk about the vote on the European Protection Order, because I personally consider this instrument to be enormously important.
For this reason, I am concerned that the text we have voted on is not established on a reliable legal basis.
I firmly believe, however, that the text can be modified, and I believe that this obviously good idea will be fully implemented.
The mutual recognition of judgment and judicial decisions is fundamental in an area of freedom, security and justice.
This legislation is needed for the prevention of violence against women and the other victims of violence.
Since 2008, 35 people have been rescued from exploitation in my own constituency of Northern Ireland; 25 of these were rescued in 2009.
It is a form of modern-day slavery, a serious crime and a violation of a person's fundamental human rights.
Women and children are in the special risk group.
I would like to call on the European Union actually to start to act - not just talk, but act - to bring human trafficking in the European Union to a complete end, using this report as a point of reference.
I am pleased that the new directive places a duty on states to improve their legislation with the aim of combating this crime effectively, but I would also like to point out that a Community-wide condemnation of exploitation must come before the pursuit of traffickers.
We must concentrate on educating children and young people, we must inform parents and teachers, and we must talk about this in the media, since the most effective form of prevention is a lack of demand. (IT) Mr President, I asked for the floor to give an explanation of vote on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings.
Obviously, I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Bauer because the fight against trafficking in human beings is, and must remain, one of our priorities.
This problem has grown to such an extent that it can be called a new form of slavery.
Each year, this phenomenon has 1 million victims around the world and 500 000 in Europe alone.
The multiplication of major disasters outside the EU in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the EU disaster response capacity.
Otherwise, we will be doing all the hard work and they will be doing nothing. (PL) Mr President, many EU citizens are still not aware of the significance of cohesion policy for the development not only of individual regions, but also of entire countries.
As a result, populations from less privileged regions with difficult farming conditions and poor access to communications benefit from the same level of access to social, education, transport and energy services as the citizens of areas enjoying better social and economic positions.
We must therefore support all measures aimed at making better use of money granted under the Structural Funds and at making more effective use of its integrating role, all the more so because the effects of cohesion policy measures are most keenly felt at local level and, therefore, to a significant extent in rural areas too.
Cohesion policy, however, has also proved its worth in a time of financial crisis as an effective instrument for responding flexibly to new socio-economic challenges.
Written explanations of vote I voted for the report on the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (flooding in Madeira, Portugal, and a storm in France).
Portugal applied for assistance from the Solidarity Fund after unusual and abnormal rainfall on the island of Madeira in February 2010 triggered landslides and flooding, causing severe damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses and agriculture.
The Solidarity Fund is contributing about EUR 31 million.
I was in Madeira myself and witnessed the need for this fund to be more flexible and generous in its support, particularly for the more remote and island regions, which are often battered by bad weather.
On the basis of the report by my esteemed German colleague, Mr Böge, I voted for the proposal for a decision by the European Parliament and of the Council on mobilising the European Union Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 67 million to help Madeira (Portugal), which was hit by landslides and floods, as well as France, affected by floods following storm Xynthia in February 2010.
Of course, this is a substantial amount of funding, but given that it is a relatively small proportion of the total damage (2.7%), I cannot help but wonder whether the European Union should not use this fund to finance a European civil protection force which could immediately come to the aid of disaster victims, in order to cope with extremely acute situations that are beyond the capabilities of national forces.
I welcome the adoption of the report awarding Portugal EUR 31 255 790 from the European Union Solidarity Fund, following the flooding that occurred in Madeira last February.
I voted for this report because I agree that, in respect of the general budget of the European Union for the 2010 financial year, the European Union Solidarity Fund should be mobilised to provide the sum of EUR 66 891 540 in commitment and payment appropriations in order to address the application made by Portugal to respond to a disaster caused by landslides and flooding on the island of Madeira and also the application by France with regard to a disaster caused by storm Xynthia.
I, of course, welcome the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund to aid the victims of the tragedy that struck Madeira following abnormal rainfall.
Portugal applied for assistance from the Solidarity Fund after unusual and abnormal rainfall on the island of Madeira in February 2010 triggered landslides and flooding, causing severe damage to local public and private infrastructure, businesses and agriculture.
The financial aid released through the fund will enable the Portuguese authorities, particularly the regional government of Madeira, to recover part of the expenses they incurred in responding to the emergency.
I voted overall in favour of this report out of a sense of responsibility and a commitment to avoid unnecessary delays in mobilising financial aid for the regions of Portugal and France that have been struck by natural disasters.
Ten months after storm Xynthia hit the French coast, killing 53, injuring 80 and causing substantial material damage, Parliament has adopted a budgetary amendment in order to mobilise the EU Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 35.6 million.
Natural and man-made disasters are becoming more and more frequent, which is why we must ensure that national measures are more effective and better coordinated, and that European measures are more flexible.
I am delighted that over EUR 35 million have been released from the Solidarity Fund to repair the considerable damage caused by Xynthia in some coastal areas, primarily Charente-Maritime, Vendée and the Côtes-d'Armor.
The Commission is proposing to mobilise the Solidarity Fund to provide a total sum of EUR 66 891 540 in favour of Portugal and France: EUR 31 255 790 for Portugal and EUR 35 635 750 for France.
France, for its part, requested assistance from the Solidarity Fund following storm Xynthia, also in February 2010, which struck a significant part of the country, killing 53 people, injuring 80, and also causing severe damage to dams and dykes, public and private infrastructure, road and rail networks, farms and businesses.
While I am wholly in favour of this mobilisation, not least because of its importance to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, I have to express my disappointment that the aid is only being made available in December, 10 months after the disasters that struck the French coast and the island of Madeira.
The regulation also states that this instrument should enable the Community 'to act swiftly and efficiently to help, as quickly as possible, in mobilising emergency services to meet people's immediate needs and contribute to the short-term restoration of damaged key infrastructure'.
However, the rules and procedures involved in mobilising the fund have already shown that this principle of helping the affected populations quickly is not being observed in practice.
In this case, this House is only voting to mobilise the fund 10 months after the disaster.
On 27 and 28 February 2010, storm Xynthia killed 53 and injured around 80 in Vendée and Charente-Maritime.
As from the March 2010 plenary session, Parliament took action, adopting by a very large majority a resolution calling for the fund to be used to provide assistance to the victims.
Today's vote, which confirmed the release of EUR 35.6 million for these departments, as well as EUR 31.2 million for Portugal, which suffered flooding in Madeira caused by this storm, is an example of this common desire to show true solidarity between European citizens.
This is the Europe we wish to build, a Europe close to its citizens, alert to the issues affecting them, and capable of addressing those issues collectively.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Solidarity Fund.
Today's vote concerned two requests for assistance.
The second request for mobilisation was made by France following storm Xynthia, which caused the deaths of 53 people and flooded wide areas, including residential areas, and caused severe damage to dams and dykes, public and private infrastructure, road and rail networks, agriculture and businesses.
Lastly, I would add that the Fund was mobilised to the tune of EUR 31 255 790 for the flooding in Madeira and EUR 35 635 750 for storm Xynthia, totalling EUR 66 891 540.
I voted in favour of mobilising the European Union Solidarity Fund for the areas hit by floods in Portugal and the French regions hit by storm Xynthia in February 2010.
The mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund is a practical expression of a Europe that is close to its citizens, which is what they expect.
The aid that the European Union is allocating to Portugal and France following the storms in February 2010 is good news.
The European Union is an area of solidarity, and the EU Solidarity Fund is a part of that.
Support from the fund is crucial for aiding areas affected by natural disasters, such as the flooding in Madeira (Portugal) and storm Xynthia in France.
After verifying that both applications meet the eligibility criteria of Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002, the Commission proposed to mobilise the Solidarity Fund for an amount of EUR 31 255 790 for Portugal (Madeira flooding) and EUR 35 635 750 for France (storm Xynthia), resulting in a total amount of EUR 66 891 540 to be deducted from the ceiling of EUR 1 billion in commitment and payment appropriations.
The procedure needs to be made less bureaucratic and more streamlined in order to respond to future disaster situations in a timely manner.
Although I voted in favour of this proposal to grant aid, I consider that this is an analgesic and palliative measure for the consequences of the capitalist model, and that it does not represent any progress in the fight against the root causes of the crisis.
I agree with the mobilisation of resources from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for citizens made redundant due to structural changes in commercial models or as a direct consequence of the current economic and financial crisis.
I believe that the sum of more than EUR 250 million that is being requested as additional assistance and aid for the more than 600 employees made redundant from the retail sector in the Netherlands can help to achieve the ultimate goal of facilitating the reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
If the European Union merely provides funds and does not work towards prevention of natural disasters, this may have graver consequences in the future.
Portugal applied for assistance from the Solidarity Fund after unusual rainfall caused landslides and severe flooding on the island of Madeira in February 2010, which resulted in damage to public and private infrastructure and to businesses and agriculture.
France applied for assistance from the Solidarity Fund after the major part of France was hit by storm Xynthia in February 2010, with the Atlantic coast region, particularly Charente-Maritime and Vendée, being worst affected.
The storm claimed 53 lives and nearly 80 people were injured.
I supported the vote of the European Parliament, which today, Tuesday 14 December 2010, approved the release of EUR 35.6 million for France, whose Atlantic coastline was partly devastated by storm Xynthia in February.
As MEP for the worst affected regions, I welcome the allocation of these funds to repair the damage caused by the storm: it comes as a real relief to all the French départements affected.
This mobilisation proves that solidarity is not a hollow word where the European Union is concerned.
To conclude, I wish to point out that storm Xynthia in February 2010 affected a large part of France, with the départements of Charente-Maritime and Vendée being the worst hit, leaving 53 people dead and 80 injured.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that, in respect of the general budget of the European Union for the 2010 financial year, the European Union Solidarity Fund should be mobilised to provide the sum of EUR 66 891 540 in commitment and payment appropriations in order to address the applications made by: Portugal to mobilise the fund in response to a disaster caused by landslides and flooding on Madeira Island; and France to mobilise the fund with regard to a disaster caused by storm Xynthia.
in writing. - The Commission proposes to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France under point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (IIA).
In 2010, so far, only one proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund has been submitted by the Commission, a proposal of 24 September 2010 to mobilise EUR 13.02 million following severe flooding in Ireland in November 2009.
This proposal and the corresponding draft amending budget (DAB No 8/2010) are still in the process of being adopted by the two arms of the budgetary authority.
In parallel to the proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France, the Commission has presented a draft amending budget (DAB No 9/2010 of 13 October 2010) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2010 budget as provided in point 26 of the IIA.
The Solidarity Fund was set up with the aim of demonstrating the European Union's solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters.
The total damage caused by both disasters has been assessed at EUR 66 891 540, and this amount will soon be mobilised once the amending budget has been changed as required to make it available.
The adoption today in plenary of a budgetary amendment to mobilise the EU Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 35.6 million following a proposal by the Commission is good news.
This is in response to the request made by the French Government following storm Xynthia, which hit the French coast on 27 and 28 February 2010, leaving 53 people dead and 80 injured in Vendée and Charente-Maritime.
The procedure is undoubtedly long and in need of improvement, but I am pleased to see European solidarity being shown in this way, in the face of the tragedy the victims have experienced.
In view of the opinion by the Committee on Regional Development and the proposal to reduce payment appropriations from the line 'Energy projects to aid economic recovery - European offshore wind grid system' so as to aid the countries (Portugal and France) affected by major natural disasters through the Solidarity Fund, and also bearing in mind the fact that this decision sets out the basic criteria for the operation of the Solidarity Fund, I agree with this report.
The European Union Solidarity Fund is the ideal instrument for supporting local efforts.
Created following the 2002 floods in Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic and France, the Solidarity Fund is meant to assist European regions affected by unforeseeable disasters.
This text also allocates an equivalent amount to the areas affected by recent flooding in Portugal.
I, of course, welcome the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund to aid the victims of the tragedy that struck Madeira following abnormal rainfall.
I reiterate my strong belief that the procedures need to be simplified so that the Solidarity Fund can be mobilised more swiftly in future.
I have already voted in favour of a parallel draft report recommending that mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund be approved for Portugal (Madeira flooding) and France (storm Xynthia), and so it is out of the same sense of responsibility that I am voting in favour of this report on the amending budget to mobilise EUR 31 255 790 for Portugal and EUR 35 635 750 for France, making a total of EUR 66 891 540 to be deducted from the fund's ceiling.
Despite the importance of investment projects for energy infrastructure, and most especially wind energy, I am voting in favour of reducing the payment appropriations from budget line 06 04 14 03 so that the funds can be reallocated to the EUR 66 891 540 in payment appropriations (line 13 06 01) required to cover needs relating to the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund.
As we vote on this draft amending budget, which will allow for the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund in favour of the people of Madeira and the regions of France affected by the storm Xynthia - which, of course, we supported - it is important to highlight a few points here, in addition to the delay in mobilising the fund, which we mentioned previously.
That would also reduce the disparities between the various regions and Member States in the European Union.
At a time when we are facing ever more frequent natural disasters in Europe, the European Union must be able to provide appropriate aid to its Member States when one of them is hit by a disaster of this kind.
Consequently, following storm Xynthia in March, which hit the coastal areas of Charente-Maritime and Vendée, and the floods that affected the island of Madeira in Portugal in February, it was only natural that I should approve the mobilisation of the European Solidarity Fund in order to compensate for the damage caused by these disasters.
To my mind, this vote illustrates the solidarity that exists between the nations of Europe, and which should exist in many other areas too, for that matter.
The EU Solidarity Fund was established to precisely this end.
The fund makes it possible to grant financial assistance to victims in areas affected by 'major natural disasters', such as the Portuguese island of Madeira which was destroyed by floods, or the French regions devastated by storm Xynthia.
in writing. - I voted for this report which approves the transfer of 66 million euro from the European offshore wind grid system to the EU Solidarity Fund in order to help the victims of flooding in Portugal and storms in France.
This draft amending budget makes sense, considering the purpose of the funds mobilised through the Solidarity Fund to address the effects of the landslides and severe flooding that took place on the island of Madeira, Portugal, and the effects of storm Xynthia in France.
After verifying that both applications meet the eligibility criteria of Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002, the Commission proposed to mobilise the Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 31 255 790 for Portugal (flooding in Madeira) and EUR 35 635 750 for France (storm Xynthia), resulting in a total amount of EUR 66 891 540 to be deducted from the ceiling of EUR 1 billion in commitment and payment appropriations.
The procedure needs to be made less bureaucratic and more streamlined in order to respond to future disaster situations in a timely manner.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the report.
I fully support the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund in response to the natural disasters in France and Portugal.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that, in respect of the general budget of the European Union for the 2010 financial year, the European Union Solidarity Fund should be mobilised to provide the sum of EUR 66 891 540 in commitment and payment appropriations in order to address the applications made by: Portugal to mobilise the fund in response to a disaster caused by landslides and flooding on Madeira Island; and France to mobilise the fund with regard to a disaster caused by storm Xynthia.
I welcome this draft amending budget making it possible to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund to provide a total of EUR 66 891 540 in commitment and payment appropriations, EUR 31 255 790 of which is to address the request for assistance submitted by Portugal following the considerable damage caused by the storm that struck the Autonomous Region of Madeira in February 2010.
On this aspect, and regarding the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund, the Commission proposes to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (IIA).
The IIA allows the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion.
In 2010, so far, only one proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund has been submitted by the Commission, a proposal of 24 September 2010 to mobilise EUR 13.02 million following severe flooding in Ireland in November 2009.
The aim of this European Parliament document is to approve the Council's position on Draft amending budget No 9/2010 with a view to implementing the changes needed for the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund.
Today, in the name of European solidarity, we are approving the redeployment of this amount in payment appropriations from budget line 06 04 14 03: Energy projects to aid economic recovery - European offshore wind grid system, for the repair of infrastructure and reconstruction of the areas affected by the disasters.
On the basis of the report by my excellent Italian colleague, Barbara Matera, I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of EUR 2.2 million in aid to Slovenia, which is facing redundancies in the textile industry.
I find it strange that 583, or 22.8%, of the 2 554 workers made redundant in total have a long-standing health problem or disability.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons that led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
Aid to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
In light of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the European economy is able to quickly implement assistance policies for workers affected by such changes whilst also giving them the skills required to return swiftly to the labour market.
The number of times in recent months that this House has approved the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), which was set up to provide additional support for workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, is, in my view, highly indicative of the crisis that Europe is going through.
In this specific case, the aid is intended to address the consequences of 2 554 redundancies at Mura, European Fashion Design, a company in Slovenia that operates in the wearing apparel sector.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, proper utilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, and, at the same time, developing a new, skilled workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for Slovenia is being put forward, in relation to 2 554 redundancies at Mura, European Fashion Design, a company operating in the wearing apparel sector.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
Applications to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund are being submitted month after month.
In all, over 6 500 workers (6 592 to be precise) have been made redundant.
That makes almost 10 000, if we also add in the ones discussed here a month ago.
As we approve this mobilisation, I cannot avoid reiterating that what is needed is a clear break with the neoliberal policies that are causing the obvious economic and social disaster to be seen in the countries of the European Union.
It has become increasingly urgent to implement the proposal that we made during the debate on the 2011 budget, to create a European programme for employment and sustainable development, to which 1% of EU gross domestic product would be allocated, supplemented with funds from the Member States.
The aim of this would be real convergence, promotion of each country's potential, the sustainable use of its resources, investment in production and the creation of jobs with rights.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Slovenia because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 2 554 redundancies in Mura, European Fashion Design, an enterprise which operates in the wearing apparel sector, amounting to a total of EUR 2 247 940 financed by the EGF.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - I welcome the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Fund to help the 2 554 workers made redundant in the Mura, European Fashion Design, enterprise in Slovenia.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
It endorses a rationale that has led the investment funds that own this Group and the banks that invest in them to make profits at their expense.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of the company relocations that occur in a globalised world.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of the lower labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on those countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is fundamental in facilitating their access to new employment.
The EGF has been used by other EU countries in the past, so now it is appropriate to grant this aid to Slovenia, which has applied for assistance for 2 554 redundancies at Mura, European Fashion Design, a company operating in the wearing apparel sector.
We must support people who have lost their jobs and give them the opportunity of applying their potential in different areas.
It is a real shame that, despite the fact that I made a personal approach to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia, pointing out to him the opportunity of drawing on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, Latvia has nevertheless not made use of this opportunity, even though 15% of Latvia's population is unemployed.
The Slovenian clothing company Mura, European Fashion Design, had to make 2 554 workers redundant between 21 October 2009 and 20 February 2010 as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
I have voted in favour of the report, because mobilisation of the funding is fully justified.
According to the report by Mrs Matera, we need to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers in Slovenia who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
Given that Slovenia has requested assistance for 2 554 cases of redundancy at Mura, European Fashion Design, a company operating in the wearing apparel sector, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
The request presented by Slovenia for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for 2 554 redundancies at Mura, European Fashion Design, a company operating in the wearing apparel sector, in the period from 21 October 2009 to 20 February 2010, fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this in which there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of four months in an enterprise in a Member State' as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
Given that Germany has requested assistance for 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree that it should be ensured that the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
Given that Germany has requested assistance for 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector, I am voting overall in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Germany.
Today, we are approving a package of EUR 8 308 555 in aid from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in favour of Germany, in order to address the consequences of 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for Germany is being put forward, in relation to 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
Today's decision will result in the workers from the enterprise Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG in Baden-Württemberg who are threatened with redundancy receiving around EUR 8 million in assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
It is important to me that these people receive these funds quickly and without significant bureaucratic frictional losses.
The European Union and the Member States must also endeavour to do more than simply counter the negative consequences of globalisation.
My abstention from this vote is not only due to the sceptical attitude of the German Free Democratic Party to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, but is also based on a possible conflict of interests as a shareholder in Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Germany because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - The European Globalisation Fund was created in order to provide assistance for workers suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
The 1 181 redundancies at four production sites of the enterprise Druckmaschinen AG in Baden Württemberg (manufacturing of printing machinery sector) fall exactly into this category and I therefore supported the mobilisation of EUR 8 308 555 to assist them.
I am abstaining out of consideration for the German workers of the Heidelberger Druckmaschinen Group, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of the company relocations that occur in a globalised world.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of the lower labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on those countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is fundamental in facilitating their access to new employment.
The EGF has been used by other EU countries in the past, so now it is appropriate to grant this aid to Germany, which has requested assistance for 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector.
The effects of the economic crisis are still being felt throughout Europe.
Between 26 January 2010 and 26 May 2010, the printing machinery manufacturer Druckmaschinen AG, based in Heidelberg, had to make 1 181 workers redundant as a result of the crisis.
The Federal Republic of Germany has therefore applied for EUR 8 308 555 in assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I am voting in favour of the report, as all of the stipulated criteria for mobilisation of the funds are met.
I support the mobilisation of the fund in connection with this application because this measure can provide additional support to workers who are suffering the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Given that Germany has requested assistance for 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
The request presented by Germany for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for 1 181 redundancies spread across the four production sites of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen in Baden-Württemberg, a company operating in the printing machinery manufacturing sector, in the period between 26 January and 26 May 2010, fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this in which there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of four months in an enterprise in a Member State' as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
However, with regard to the aforementioned enterprise, Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, I abstained from the vote.
If, during such a process, an application is made for mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, this represents a negative example of how a socially meaningful and very responsible EU measure is exploited by international companies to wheedle out of their social responsibility.
On the basis of the report by my Italian colleague, Barbara Matera, I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the sum of EUR 0.6 million in aid to Poland, which is facing redundancies in the automotive sector.
I support the fact that this aid is being managed and controlled by the bodies responsible for the European Social Fund (ESF) in Poland, thereby limiting monitoring costs to a mere EUR 2 000.
Like Mrs Matera, I congratulate the Commission on the fact that, in the context of mobilising the EGF, it has proposed an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused ESF funds.
Given that Poland has submitted a request for assistance for 590 redundancies at two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Wielkopolskie, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree with the Commission's proposal, in relation to the mobilisation of the EGF, to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
Aid to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
In view of the structural changes in world trade, it is vital that the European economy is able to promptly deploy the instruments designed to support workers affected in this way, and to provide them with new skills so that they can be quickly reintegrated into the labour market.
Financial assistance should therefore be provided on an individual basis.
Given that Poland has submitted a request for assistance for 590 redundancies at two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the region of Wielkopolskie, I am voting in favour of this report or, in other words, in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Poland.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was created to respond to situations like these.
In this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of in excess of EUR 600 000 in favour of Poland to support 613 redundancies at two companies in the motor vehicle manufacturing sector between 1 March 2009 and 30 November 2009.
As the Commission has assessed this application and considers it to be suitable and to meet the set requirements, and as it recommends that the request be approved, I voted in favour.
Given the social impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a particular effect on employment, proper utilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is of pivotal importance in alleviating the plight of many European citizens and families, contributing to their social reintegration and professional development, and, at the same time, developing a new, skilled workforce to meet the needs of companies and boost the economy.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Poland because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
The request for assistance concerned 1 104 redundancies (of which 590 have been targeted for assistance) made redundant by two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), amounting to a sum of EUR 633 077 financed by the EGF.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - The Commission has proposed granting EUR 633 077 from the European Globalisation Fund to help 1 104 workers made redundant in Poland in two enterprises involved in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers.
I voted for this proposal.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
It endorses the rationale that leads companies such as SEWS and Leoni Atokabel to shamelessly relocate in order to increase their profits.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of the company relocations that occur in a globalised world.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is fundamental in facilitating their access to new employment.
The EGF has been used by other EU countries in the past, so now it is appropriate to grant this aid to Poland, which has applied for assistance for 590 redundancies at two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Wielkopolskie.
In order to be able to prevent a significant increase in the level of unemployment as a result of the financial and economic crisis, the EU Member States need funds to be able to implement effective political measures quickly.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund makes available an annual amount of EUR 500 billion for this purpose.
If more than 500 workers from one or more enterprises are made redundant during a specific period, an application may be made for mobilisation of funds.
I am voting in favour of the report, as assistance amounting to EUR 633 077 for 1 104 redundant Polish workers from enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 is fully justified.
I voted in favour of the report because it concerns targeted measures to help workers suffering as a result of the economic crisis and its consequences.
Given that Poland has submitted a request for assistance for 590 redundancies at two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Wielkopolskie, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
The request submitted by Poland for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for 590 redundancies at two companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the NUTS II region of Wielkopolskie fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this in which there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level' as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will help these workers successfully rejoin the labour market.
This autonomous community has a population density of less than the EU average (112 inhabitants per square kilometre); its traditional economy is growing cereals and rearing sheep; its retail trade has suffered 1 154 redundancies from 593 businesses in a nine-month period; 56% of people in its service sector were unemployed in February 2010, 73% of whom were women; 73.9% of workers made redundant were sales assistants in shops and markets; 14.4% were doing unskilled jobs.
It must, however, remain clear that these actions must not substitute those that the businesses are obliged to adopt under national legislation or collective agreements.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the NUTS II region of Aragón, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
Aid to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
In view of the structural changes in world trade, it is vital that the European economy is able to promptly deploy the instruments designed to support workers affected in this way, and to provide them with new skills so that they can be quickly reintegrated into the labour market.
Financial assistance should therefore be provided on an individual basis.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the region of Aragón, I am voting overall in favour of this report or, in other words, in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Spain.
The financial and economic crisis that we are going through, combined with the constant shifts in the labour market caused by changes to the structure of world trade, has resulted in countless victims of unemployment, which, in many cases, is long term.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund was created to respond to situations like these.
In this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of in excess of EUR 1.5 million in favour of Spain to support 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies in the retail trade between 1 June 2009 and 28 February 2010.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for Spain is being put forward, in relation to 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies operating in Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the NUTS II region of Aragón.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Spain because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's request for assistance concerned 1 154 redundancies in 593 enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles), amounting to a sum of EUR 1 560 000 financed by the EGF.
Lastly, I must emphasise the importance of the EGF, which has proved to be a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - The extent of the global downturn is revealed in this application from Spain to mobilise EUR 1 560 000 from the European Globalisation Fund to help 1 154 people made redundant in 593 different retail enterprises over a nine month period.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of the company relocations that occur in a globalised world.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of the lower labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on those countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is fundamental in facilitating their access to new employment.
The financial and economic crisis has resulted in a drastic downturn in sales in the retail sector.
in writing. - (DE) Since this is a matter of additional support for workers made redundant as a result of the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis so as to provide them with additional funds for their reintegration into the labour market, I have voted in favour.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the NUTS II region of Aragón, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
The request submitted by Spain for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for 1 154 redundancies at 593 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 47 (retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles) in the NUTS II region of Aragón fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this in which there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level' as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will help these workers successfully rejoin the labour market.
I voted in favour of European Globalisation Adjustment Fund aid for Valencia because, as a result of the structural changes in world trade and the financial crisis, there were 544 unexpected redundancies from 143 businesses between 13 April 2009 and 12 January 2010 in the Valencian textile industry, which have had a serious impact at local level.
Out of those dismissed, 61.7% are men, 22% are over the age of 55, 79.9% only have a basic education and four are disabled.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 350 redundancies at 143 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons that led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
Aid to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation should be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
In view of the structural changes in world trade, it is vital that the European economy is able to promptly deploy the instruments designed to support workers affected in this way, and to provide them with new skills so that they can be quickly reintegrated into the labour market.
Financial assistance should therefore be provided on an individual basis.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 350 redundancies at 143 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the region of Comunidad Valenciana, I am voting overall in favour of this report or, in other words, in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Spain.
The financial and economic crisis that we are going through, combined with the constant shifts in the labour market caused by changes to the structure of world trade, has resulted in countless victims of unemployment, which, in many cases, is long term.
In this particular case, we are talking about the mobilisation of in excess of EUR 2 million in favour of Spain to support 544 redundancies at 143 companies in the textile sector between 13 April 2009 and 12 January 2010.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for Spain is being put forward, in relation to 350 redundancies at 143 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Spain because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's request for assistance concerned 544 redundancies (of which 350 have been targeted for assistance) in 143 enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles), amounting to a sum of EUR 2 059 466 financed by the EGF.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
The Commission proposes mobilising EUR 1 422 850 in response to 528 redundancies in 33 enterprises in the sector in Spain.
I voted in favour.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of the company relocations that occur in a globalised world.
More and more companies are relocating, taking advantage of the lower labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on those countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF is aimed at helping workers who are victims of company relocations, and it is fundamental in facilitating their access to new employment.
Between 13 April 2009 and 12 January 2010, 544 Spanish workers were made redundant from 143 enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacturing of textiles).
In order to be able to provide 350 of them with assistance, Spain has applied for the mobilisation of EUR 2 059 466 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 350 redundancies at 143 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to establish an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created as a separate, specific instrument with its own aims and deadlines, and that suitable budget lines for transfers must therefore be identified.
The request submitted by Spain for assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) concerns 544 redundancies (350 of which are eligible to receive support) at 143 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana.
According to the Commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily expanded to cover its intervention in situations like this in which there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level' as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will help these workers successfully rejoin the labour market.
I voted in favour of this initiative so that 330 people out of the 528 who were made redundant over a period of nine months from 66 companies in Valencia in the natural-stone processing sector can receive additional aid in order to make it possible for them to re-enter the labour market.
Given that Spain has submitted a request for assistance for 300 redundancies at 66 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal as amended by Parliament.
Assistance to workers made redundant due to restructuring and relocation must be dynamic and flexible so that it can be implemented rapidly and effectively.
In the light of structural changes to international trade, it is important for the European economy to quickly implement instruments to aid workers affected by such changes, whilst also giving them the skills required for their swift reintegration into the labour market.
On this basis, financial assistance should be provided on an individual basis.
It is also important to emphasise that this assistance is not a substitute for companies' normal responsibilities, nor is it intended to finance companies or lead to their restructuring.
Given that Spain has requested assistance for 300 individuals who have lost their jobs at 66 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) in the region of Comunidad Valenciana, overall, I am voting in favour of this report or, put another way, in favour of mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to support Spain.
We are today approving the mobilisation of an aid package totalling EUR 1 422 850 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in favour of Spain, a country that has been badly affected by the global economic crisis and, in particular, has seen unemployment rise above the European average.
In this specific case, the aid concerns 528 redundancies at 66 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products).
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Spain because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 528 redundancies (of which 300 have been targeted for assistance from the fund) in 66 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23 (manufacture of non-metallic mineral products), amounting to a sum of EUR 1 422 850 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - This application refers to the mobilisation of a global amount of EUR 1 422 850 from the EGF for Spain.
It concerns 528 redundancies in 66 enterprises operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23, namely 'Manufacture of non-metallic mineral products', during the nine-month reference period from 31 March to 30 December 2009.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
It endorses the rationale that has enabled the Charterhouse and Impala Funds to increase their capital at the expense of the Levantina workers in Comunidad Valenciana.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of this.
This aid is essential in helping the unemployed and victims of the relocations occurring in an era of globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries which respect workers' rights.
As there were a total of 528 redundancies in 66 enterprises in Spain between 31 March 2009 and 30 December 2009, the mobilisation of funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund amounting to EUR 1 422 850 is not in the least surprising.
I am voting in favour of the report, as the full utilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is extremely welcome.
I support this application, which seeks to cushion the effects of the numerous redundancies in this sector and to assist the reintegration into the labour market of workers who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
Given that Spain has requested assistance in respect of 300 redundancies at 66 companies operating in NACE Revision 2 Division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the European Commission's proposal to establish a source of funds other than unused European Social Fund resources, in response to the repeated statements by the European Parliament that it is necessary to identify appropriate budgetary mechanisms for the transfer of funds, given that the EGF was set up to be a specific and separate instrument with its own aims and funding periods.
The request submitted by Spain to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 300 of the 528 redundancies at 66 companies operating in NACE 2 Division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) in the NUTS II region of Comunidad Valenciana fulfils all the legally established eligibility criteria.
Under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened: intervention was envisaged in situations like this where, as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of nine months, particularly in small or medium-sized enterprises, in a NACE 2 division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level'.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, and I hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will contribute to the successful reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
The closure of Lear Automotive led to a 4% increase in unemployment in the area, which, in 2009, stood at 22.7%.
This aid aims to provide a package of personalised services similar to other aid granted in the same region and to the same sector, in another case that covered 1 429 of the 2 330 people made redundant.
This case will apply to 508 of the 515 redundancies recorded over a period of four months in 2010 due to the closure of Lear Automotive.
I voted in favour of this initiative so that its application will enable those affected to re-enter the labour market and it will help to reduce unemployment.
Given that Spain has applied for assistance for 508 redundancies at Lear Automotive (EEDS) Spain, S.L.
I also agree that the Commission's proposal, in its explanatory statement, should include clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons that led to its approval, in accordance with the requests made by Parliament.
In view of the structural changes in world trade, it is vital that the European economy is able to promptly deploy the instruments designed to support workers affected in this way, and to provide them with new skills so that they can be quickly reintegrated into the labour market.
Financial assistance should therefore be provided on an individual basis.
It is also important to emphasise that this assistance is not a substitute for the responsibilities normally incumbent upon companies, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of companies.
Given that Spain has applied for assistance for 508 redundancies at Lear Automotive (EEDS), a company operating in the automotive sector in the region of Catalonia, I am voting overall in favour of this report or, in other words, in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for Spain.
We are here again today to adopt the mobilisation of a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) assistance package totalling EUR 382 000 to support the Spanish automotive industry.
In this particular case, the assistance relates to the 515 jobs which have been lost at Lear Automotive (EEDS) Spain, S.L.
It is in such a context that this intervention plan for Spain has been designed, a plan which will assist the 508 individuals who have lost their jobs at Lear Automotive (EEDS) Spain, S.L.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
I voted for the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in favour of Spain because I consider that instrument to be a valuable resource for the support of workers in difficulties on account of the economic crisis.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
To conclude, I welcome the adoption of the report, which shows that the EGF is a useful and effective resource for combating unemployment resulting from globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - The economic downturn in the automotive sector has led to 515 redundancies in the enterprise Lear Automotive (Spain).
I support the proposal to mobilise EUR 382 200 from the European Globalisation Fund to assist them.
I am abstaining out of consideration for the Spanish workers of Lear Automotive, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
However, the little that is being given may help to ease their pain.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This aid is essential in helping the unemployed and victims of the relocations occurring in an era of globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF aims to help workers who are victims of companies relocating and is crucial in facilitating access to new jobs.
It is intended to benefit workers who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis by establishing measures that will guarantee their rapid reintegration into the labour market.
However, an enterprise must have made at least 500 redundancies - like the Spanish enterprise Lear Automotive, which meets all the criteria - for Spain to be able to apply for funds.
I am voting in favour of the report, as this is precisely what the funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund are for.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the European Commission's proposal to establish a source of funds other than unused European Social Fund resources, in response to the repeated statements by the European Parliament that it is necessary to identify appropriate budgetary mechanisms for the transfer of funds, given that the EGF was set up to be a specific and separate instrument with its own aims and funding periods.
The request submitted by Spain to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 508 redundancies at Lear Automotive (EEDS) Spain, S.L.
Under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened: intervention was envisaged in situations like this where, as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis, there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of four months in an enterprise in a Member State'.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, and I hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will contribute to the successful reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
Cegielski-Poznań and at four of its suppliers, all operating in the marine diesel engine sector, I voted in favour of the resolution, as I agree with the Commission's proposal combined with the respective amendments introduced by Parliament.
I also agree that we should ensure that the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors.
Cegielski-Poznań, a producer of diesel motors used in ships and electricity stations and four of its suppliers, overall, I am voting in favour of this report or, put another way, in favour of mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to support Poland.
We are here today to adopt a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) assistance package of EUR 114 250 for Poland to allow it to address the consequences of the 658 job losses at four productive facilities at H.
Cegielski-Poznań, a company involved in the production of maritime diesel motors, and four of its suppliers in the cities and district of Poznań.
It is in this context that this intervention plan for Poland has been designed, a plan which relates to the 189 individuals who have lost their jobs at H.
I hope, therefore, that the European institutions will consolidate efforts to implement measures designed to accelerate and improve the level of utilisation of a resource of such importance as the EGF which currently has very low levels of mobilisation.
This year, only 11% of the EUR 500 million available was requested.
The global economic crisis has given rise to major structural changes in many businesses, resulting in a huge number of people losing their jobs.
The proposal under examination relates to assistance for a large group of workers laid off in the Polish region of Wielkopolskie.
As a result, the laid-off workers will be able either to get back their old jobs or find new ones, and the owners of the businesses will make use of the support to mitigate the negative effects of the global crisis and to maintain their place in the market.
The EGF was set up in 2006 to provide practical support to workers made redundant either for reasons associated with the relocation of their companies or, following the 2009 amendment, on account of the economic crisis, in order to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
Today's vote concerned a request for assistance for 658 redundancies (of which 189 have been targeted for assistance) at H.
Cegielski-Poznań and four of its suppliers, enterprises which operate in the sector concerned with the manufacture of marine diesel engines in the cities of Poznań and Poviat, amounting to a total of EUR 114 250 financed by the EGF.
in writing. - I voted for this application for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to assist 658 redundancies in the enterprise H.
Cegielski-Poznań and four of its suppliers, which operate in the manufacture of marine diesel engines in Poznań and the surrounding district.
The Commission proposed mobilising EUR 114 250 and I support the proposal.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
However, the little that is being given may help to ease their pain.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This aid is essential in helping the unemployed and victims of the relocations occurring in an era of globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGF aims to help workers who are victims of companies relocating and is crucial in facilitating access to new jobs.
The EGF has been used in the past by other EU countries, so it is appropriate for providing aid to Poland, which has presented a request for assistance relating to the 189 redundancies at H.
Cegielski-Poznań, a company which produces marine diesel engines, and at four of its suppliers.
In order for States in which workers have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis to be able to provide these workers with practical assistance, the EU has set up the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I am voting in favour of the report, as Poland needs to support 658 workers who have been made redundant from the enterprise H.
Cegielski-Poznań and at four of its suppliers, all operating in the marine diesel engine sector, I voted in favour of the resolution, as I agree with the Commission's proposal combined with the respective amendments introduced by Parliament.
I also agree that: the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) should support the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and I would reiterate that assistance from the EGF is not a substitute for measures that are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor is it intended to finance the restructuring of companies or sectors; the operation and added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and various other instruments created by the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
I welcome the European Commission's proposal to establish a source of funds other than unused European Social Fund resources, in response to the repeated statements by the European Parliament that it is necessary to identify appropriate budgetary mechanisms for the transfer of funds, given that the EGF was set up to be a specific and separate instrument with its own aims and funding periods.
The request submitted by Poland to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in relation to 189 of the 658 redundancies at H.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, and I hope that the mobilisation of the EGF will contribute to the successful reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
It emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
Finally, it stresses that, in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment, and reiterates that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
With the amendments proposed by the European Parliament in April 2008, which provide for, amongst other measures, the calculation of the five years of residence preceding the application for residence status, and with the lack of unanimity in the Council, this new proposal will directly aid beneficiaries of international protection who have been residing within EU territory for more than five years but still do not have resident status.
In its report, the European Parliament supports the European Commission's proposal and takes into account the commitment to protect the interests of beneficiaries of international protection.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that currently, the situation for citizens of third countries who are beneficiaries of international protection is confusing and unclear because the conditions for granting this status are not harmonised.
According to the Commission's proposal, the conditions and procedure for granting status will become simpler and clearer in the European Union.
Furthermore, this new directive will enable beneficiaries of international protection who become long-term residents to take up residence in a Member State other than the one in which they were recognised.
This initiative has been tabled to follow up on the 2007 proposal for a directive on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and persons under subsidiary protection, which never achieved the unanimity in the Council that was necessary before the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force.
It aims to give beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a Member State for a period of five years legal certainty about their right of residence in a Member State, as well as a set of rights comparable to those of EU nationals.
It is also an important political signal, because the adoption of this first initiative of a series of six pieces of legislation is not only a first step, but also a reflection of the constructive approach guiding the three institutions in the establishment of a Common European Asylum System by 2012.
The proposal for a directive amends another directive from 2003 so as to allow beneficiaries of international protection as well (refugees in particular) to be granted the right to be eligible for a long-term residence permit within the EU if the relevant person has already lived legally in the EU for at least five years.
It is further stipulated that these beneficiaries of international protection may continue to be expelled from the EU, but only under very strict rules, bearing in mind the principle of refoulement and the rights granted primarily under the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This proposal aims to extend the scope of Council Directive 2003/109/EC concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents and beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a Member State for a period of more than five years.
By treating beneficiaries of international protection equally in all Member States, such a measure puts an end to the inequalities which have hitherto existed between Member States and will allow the individuals in question to reside in a Member State other than the one in which they gained legal recognition, something which did not happen previously.
These measures are important precisely because we are building a common area of freedom and security within Europe, creating an area in which those who are duly recognised as having the protection of international law must benefit from the same rights in the various Member States.
Another significant fact to be welcomed is that this is the only text of the 'asylum package' to have ultimately been adopted under the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and this in spite of the commitments made at the beginning of its mandate.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/109/EC to extend its scope to beneficiaries of international protection.
I did so because I believe that it is important to guarantee refugees the same rights as citizens from third countries who hold a long-term residence permit.
Through today's vote, the European Parliament has plugged a gap in European Union law regulating the legal status of long-term legal residents, which did not apply to refugees and beneficiaries of international protection.
Thanks to the new rules, these people will be able to enjoy greater certainty with regard to their legal status in the European Union and will not be subject to inequality of treatment compared to citizens of third countries.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal which intends to give long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection who have been residing legally on the territory of the EU for more than 5 years.
Member States should also be encouraged to develop training programmes about the fundamental laws and core values of the Member State of residence and principles of democracy, human rights and equality, as well as individual rights and obligations in that Member State.
I voted for this report because I am convinced that it would have positive effects for all beneficiaries of international protection who have been residing legally on the territory of the European Union for more than five years, but who currently have no entitlement to long-term resident status.
We are convinced of the need to ensure greater certainty regarding their legal situation in the EU, avoiding all possible differential treatment vis-à-vis other third-country nationals.
Therefore, it seems that further measures to deal with any unwanted consequences are more necessary than ever, including, for instance, the adoption of measures to make it easier for such people to move to and establish residence in a Member State other than the one that afforded them international protection.
The intention is that the adoption of this report will extend the scope of Council Directive 2003/109/EC concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents and beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a Member State for a period of more than five years.
From now on, this will allow equal treatment of beneficiaries of international protection in all Member States and will allow the individuals in question to reside within a Member State other than the one in which they gained legal recognition, something which did not happen previously.
The importance of these measures is directly related to the aim of creating a common area of freedom and security within Europe, creating an area in which those who are duly recognised as having the protection of international law must benefit from the same rights in the various Member States.
International law and moral principles give the European Union the opportunity of accelerating the granting of legal status to individuals whose life in their country of birth, outside the European Union, is impossible.
Unfortunately, facts that have not been thoroughly verified are often accepted as true in both the European Union and the European Parliament.
Otherwise, whole peoples may be able to settle in Europe under refugee status.
Whether, under what circumstances and after what period of legal residence refugees are granted a long-term residence permit is a matter for the Member States to decide and must not be dictated by the EU.
The fact that after five years of legal residence, beneficiaries of international protection are to have rights comparable to those of EU nationals has raised problems and questions, particularly in those EU states with strong social systems, which will give rise to inestimable costs.
We must, in particular, always take into account the enticement to refugees, in other words, the fact that the measures intended to provide protection and financial security are exactly those that represent an incentive for many economic migrants to immigrate illegally into Europe on the pretext of seeking asylum from inhumane and life-threatening conditions.
People will first choose the Member States according to the stringency of the asylum law and then according to the level of social services.
I therefore voted against this report.
I voted in favour of the present report as I agree with the extension of the scope of Directive 2003/109/EC to provide long-term resident status to individuals who benefit from protection under international law and who have already legally resided in the territory of a Member State for a period of five years.
Long-term resident status provides the opportunity to integrate these individuals, particularly through the language training which must be provided by Member States to long-term residents.
For the same reasons, I support the rapporteur's proposal to encourage Member States to develop educational programmes on the fundamental values and legal principles of the Member State of residence, as well as on the general principles of democracy, human rights and the rights and duties of individuals.
The draft report reflects the desire to take some of the Member States' concerns into consideration, with the aim of reaching an agreement at first reading, as well as a commitment to protect the interests of beneficiaries of international protection before and after they obtain long-term residency status.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that the extension of long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a Member State for a period of five years is quite clearly justifiable, since it guarantees equality of treatment to all nationals of third countries, and promotes the economic and social cohesion of the European Union.
in writing. - In 2001, the Commission presented a proposal for a directive concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents.
Subsequently, in the Joint Statement from the Council and the Commission, made at the JHA Council of 8 May 2003, it was agreed that the Commission would table a proposal for a directive on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and persons under subsidiary protection.
The main objective of the proposal was to give beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally residing in a Member State for a period of 5 years legal certainty about their right of residence in a Member State, as well as a set of rights comparable to those of EU nationals.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution which approves the conclusion of an agreement with Georgia on the facilitation of the issuance of visas.
This agreement shows a clear desire for rapprochement between Georgia and the EU which has been expressed in recent years through a series of significant political acts, ranging from improved bilateral cooperation between the EU and Georgia to Georgia's accession to the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights.
I supported the resolution as I strongly believe that the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas will facilitate people-to-people contacts, which are a very important condition for the development of economic, social, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other ties.
I believe that the elimination of the visa requirement for the citizens of Georgia will mark an important step on their path to European integration.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this European Parliament recommendation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas for Georgia, because the enlargement of the European Union was an opportunity for the Union to create a new framework for cooperation with its neighbours to the east and the south.
In particular, the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas will facilitate people-to-people contacts that form a major precondition for developing economic, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other ties.
Furthermore, a visa facilitation regime is of great significance in people's lives as it strengthens contacts between peoples and brings about the realisation of the idea of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights in Europe.
The elimination of the visa requirement for citizens of Georgia will also mark an important stage on their path to European integration.
I agree with the European Parliament's position that agreements concluded between the Union and Georgia, such as that on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, are, first of all, a very important stage, a step forward in relations between the European Union and Georgia.
Furthermore, these agreements are also relevant from a regional point of view and will support EU efforts to enhance cooperation with other countries in the region.
The European Union has speeded up the process of opening up to the states of the South Caucasus ever since its expansion towards Eastern Europe, at a time when this region has become extremely important from a strategic, stability and security perspective.
Apart from the economic and commercial potential offered by these states, the agreement between the EU and Georgia on the facilitation of issuance of visas to citizens from this state is also a measure for encouraging democracy in this country.
It is important for the EU to export the principles of good governance, fair justice and total respect for human rights.
Waiving the compulsory requirement for Georgian citizens to have visas will mark an important step on the road to bringing them closer to Europe.
A visa facilitation scheme is of paramount importance to people's lives as it increases contacts between people and makes a reality of the idea of free movement, one of the European Union's fundamental rights.
The actions of the European Union must be based upon the principles of good governance and respect for democracy and human rights.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
It is to be hoped that this agreement will provide Georgia with the incentive to carry out the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
At the same time, the agreement should make it easier for citizens of the two contracting parties to move and maintain personal contacts, something which is essential to ensuring the development of economic, humanitarian, cultural and other relations.
I also hope that the necessary information campaigns will be implemented in Georgia, in order to inform the Georgian public both of the entry into force of this facilitated visa regime and of the new opportunities from which they can now benefit.
These agreements represent a first step in the process of strengthening relations between the European Union and Georgia.
Thus, the EU wishes to encourage Georgia to implement the reforms required in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
The freedom of movement of individuals is one of the most important rights which the EU provides to its citizens and, for this reason, I view cooperation between the EU and Georgia favourably.
Combating illegal immigration and providing incentives for reform in the spheres of security, freedom and justice could bear ample fruit if there is a spirit of commitment from both sides.
in writing. - (LV) I have always emphasised that it is the European Union's duty to lend a helping hand to those peoples who feel that they belong and wish to belong to the West and to accept our values.
I consider the facilitated issuance of visas to be an essential step in opening up new opportunities for study to Georgian citizens, and in allowing Georgian entrepreneurs to make new contacts with entrepreneurs in European Union Member States.
In this way, we shall all be winners, but Georgia's citizens most of all.
Just as we Europeans take pride in our achievements, our history and cultural values, so Georgians take pride in their country, its natural beauty and ancient culture.
I hope that a facilitated visa regime between the EU and Georgia will also encourage Europeans to become acquainted with Georgia.
in writing. - I supported this report on the EU-Georgia agreement on the facilitation of issuance of visas.
The process of deepening the relations between the EU and the countries of the South Caucasus, including Georgia, will undoubtedly contribute to improving the exercise of justice and the respect for freedoms.
The present agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas is thereby another important step towards Georgia's integration into Europe.
The freedom of movement of individuals is one of the most important rights which the EU provides to its citizens and, for this reason, this cooperation between the EU and Georgia is very important.
The process of strengthening relations between the European Union and the countries of the South Caucasus, including Georgia, will help to improve the exercise of justice and the level of respect for freedoms.
This agreement represents an important stage in the relations between the European Union and Georgia and an encouraging step forward, given Georgia's European aspirations.
Furthermore, the agreement is also beneficial at a regional level and will contribute to the efforts made by the Union to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the region.
For Georgia, this also represents a step forward and an encouragement to cooperate further with its neighbours and with the European Union.
Moreover, this type of agreement will encourage Georgia to implement the reforms required in the areas of freedom, security and justice, such as the fight against illegal immigration, the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
I abstained in the vote, because I am well informed about the situation in Georgia and about the Georgian President's determination to increase his prestige with the signing of this agreement.
I saw it with my own eyes in August 2008 in the city of Tskhinvali.
Before doing so, it must be examined as carefully as possible whether appropriate readmission agreements for bogus asylum seekers and economic migrants could prevent the abuse of the system.
I therefore voted against this report.
The process of strengthening relations between the European Union and the countries of the Southern Caucasus, including Georgia, is vital if we are to create a solid, coherent and effective foreign policy.
I support the proposal to include an EU declaration regarding facilitation of the process for family members, as this responds to specific requests made by Georgia and aims to improve the mobility of a significant number of individuals who have family ties with those Georgian citizens residing legally in the territories of the Member States.
Regarding the implementation of the two agreements recently concluded with Georgia, I fully support Mrs Griesbeck's assertion that the people need to be informed of the new situation and benefit from the new possibilities that derive from it.
In addition, the changes in the visa policy should also appear as soon as possible on the European institutions' websites.
I voted in favour of the signing of this agreement as I believe that, combined with the agreement on the re-admission of illegal residents, it constitutes very significant progress in relations between the EU and Georgia, signalling an important stage in its integration into Europe and, at the same time, providing an incentive for the country to promote the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - The enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States in 2004 and then to 27 in 2007 was an opportunity for the Union to create a new framework for cooperation with its neighbours to the east and the south.
The European Union thus engaged in an enlarged neighbourhood policy extending as far as the countries of the South Caucasus region and aimed at deepening its relations with the countries located at the EU's external borders, promoting their security, stability and development and preventing new divisions on the European continent.
The process of deepening relations between the EU and the countries of the South Caucasus, including Georgia, will undoubtedly also help to improve the exercise of justice and respect for freedom.
The two agreements recently concluded with Georgia - one on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the other on facilitation of the issuance of visas - will contribute fully to achieving these objectives.
I voted in favour of the report on a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on setting up an EU rapid response capability to address the various major natural or man-made disasters which have occurred outside the EU in recent years.
The disaster which occurred in Haiti demonstrated the need for the EU to implement fundamental reforms in terms of its rapid and efficient response to emergencies and catastrophes.
I believe that it is essential to put into practice certain concrete proposals included in the 2006 Barnier report concerning the creation of a European civil protection force.
in writing. - I supported this resolution as it is obvious that the multiplication of major disasters outside the European Union in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the existing EU disaster response capacity.
If efforts have recently been made to reinforce coherence and coordination between the civil protection and humanitarian aid dimensions of the EU response, steps towards the creation of a European civil protection force have remained minimal.
Therefore, a strong political will is needed for a more efficient and rapid response to emergencies.
Given the numerous serious disasters in the world and their increasing frequency, caused mainly by climate change, I voted for the excellent report by my Italian colleague, Mrs Zanicchi, containing a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on setting up a rapid response capability.
The moment has come to improve the EU's disaster response in terms of efficiency, coordination and visibility.
It is becoming more and more urgent to create a European rapid response capability, or 'European civil protection force', as Mr Barnier has suggested.
Clearly, the coordination of national civil protection forces seems to be a useful means of assisting a Member State which could not cope on its own with a large-scale disaster (fire, flood, natural disaster, and so on).
This European civil protection force would also be very useful for intervening in external situations such as in Haiti.
It is necessary to develop an Action Plan with a number of concrete actions to build up a more integrated coordination between the various instruments for disaster response, and to assess possible responses by the EU and the Member States.
I voted for this report because the multiplication of major natural or man-made disasters outside the European Union in recent years has led to increased calls to reform EU disaster response capacity and improve the effectiveness of the existing EU disaster response capacity.
Clear agreements and procedures should therefore be established to ensure a dual visibility (for both the Member States and the European Union) for civil protection assets deployed by Member States through the EU civil protection mechanism.
A rapid response agency for dealing with emergencies would make the European Union's interventions in the event of natural or accidental disasters much more coherent and effective.
The European Union clearly intervened rapidly and responded to real needs in the wake of the devastating earthquake in Haiti.
In view of the extent of the crisis, High Representative Ashton finally secured the coordination of EU assistance in close cooperation with Commissioner Georgieva, who is responsible for humanitarian assistance, civil defence and international cooperation.
In light of the increasing frequency and impact of natural disasters which have had serious consequences in human, economic, social and environmental terms, the European Parliament recommendation to the Council on setting up an EU rapid response capability is particularly important.
Amongst these issues, it reiterates that cooperation between Member States could provide operational and financial benefits, and it recognises that there must be an integrated approach to disaster management, which also includes prevention of, preparation for, and management of disasters, as well as post-disaster reconstruction.
Following previous European Parliament resolutions, particularly those on the Haitian earthquake and on preventing natural or man-made disasters, this House is once again wrestling with this topic.
I welcome the fact that, following the tragedy in Haiti, there has been greater political will and more efforts to strengthen coherence and coordination between the civil protection and humanitarian assistance sectors.
I also welcome the work done by the parties involved on achieving this objective.
The European Union, with the 27 Member States acting collectively, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid and development aid.
Equally, increased efficiency and speed when dealing with an emergency requires a strong political will on the part of the various parties concerned.
Furthermore, in recent years, we have witnessed a significant increase in disasters, whether natural or man-made, and these require a high level of technical expertise and coordination of the different means of responding to disasters.
EU coordination and cooperation on rapid and effective response to disasters can be very successful, as it was in the case of the Haitian earthquake in January 2010.
It is essential that the response should be of this kind.
It is, above all, in this respect that the EU should intensify its efforts, implementing the recommendations made in a recent Parliamentary report and strengthening this aspect of its cooperation policy.
With regard to responses to those disasters which cannot be prevented, there is also clearly a place for strengthening cooperation, mutual assistance and intervention between the various Member States and third countries.
The recent European Commission communication on the role of civil protection and humanitarian support aims precisely to lay the foundations for an effective and coherent synergy of the actions already taken at national, regional and local levels.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides the opportunity to develop a more thorough, coordinated and functional disaster response capacity.
I voted for the report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on setting up a European Union rapid response capability because I believe that the European Union must make significant efforts to ensure coordinated and effective responses to the various major disasters that we have recently witnessed.
Furthermore, in recent years, we have unfortunately witnessed a significant increase in disasters, whether natural or man-made, and these demand meaningful and swift intervention capability.
The number of major disasters in EU countries and third countries alike is increasing all the time, not least because of climate change and increased urbanisation.
The economic cost of such disasters is also much greater in these countries.
The creation of a rapid response force will enable the EU and the Member States to better coordinate their efforts and give better visibility to EU activity.
The rapporteur, Mrs Zanicchi, has updated the question of the possibility of rapid response only after considerable delay, but its topicality has not been diminished thereby.
A strong rapid reaction unit would be a good thing and would be able to help citizens of Europe and other states during their most difficult times.
It must not be the goal of this rapid reaction unit to promote the EU throughout the world.
It is for that reason that I voted against this report.
The report spells out the criteria which need to be met by a rapid reaction force, as well as the conditions which would be required for it to carry out its activities.
It is for that reason that I voted against this report.
We all expect that the implementation of this report will result in a concrete action plan to gradually build up more integrated coordination between the various instruments for disaster response.
I agree with the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on setting up an EU rapid response capability for natural disasters.
In fact, an analysis of the lessons learned in Haiti clearly shows the need for renewed reform of EU disaster response capability, as I had, as a matter of fact, already stated in my opinion 'on a Community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters'.
It is generally acknowledged that major efforts are currently under way to strengthen coherence and coordination between the civil protection forces and the various areas of humanitarian aid.
However, meaningful steps must be taken towards the creation of a European Civil Protection Force, as is also stated in my opinion 'on a Community approach on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters'.
I agree with the rapporteur: it is time to make greater progress in this matter, particularly in terms of implementing the concrete proposals of the 2006 Barnier report.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that it is essential that we endeavour to implement policies to strengthen the EU's capacity to respond to disasters, promoting the efficiency, coordination and visibility of these activities.
If the EU disaster-response capacity has constantly evolved since the establishment of the Community civil protection mechanism in 2001, the rapporteur believes that much more needs to be done to ensure a coordinated, coherent and visible EU response.
This need for a more coherent response was also highlighted in the latest communication from the Commission on 'reinforcing the Union's disaster response capacity', which dates back to March 2008.
It included an action plan with a number of practical actions to gradually build up more integrated coordination between the various instruments for disaster response.
The creation of a European civil protection force provides a clear structure for this kind of rapid response.
I also believe that, where possible, humanitarian relief operations should always be carried out under the coordinating umbrella of the UN.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which uses the recent disaster in Haiti as a case study and calls for the creation of a European Union Civil Protection Force capable of creating synergies between the Member States and European institutions in order to prevent disasters and assist third countries, especially any developing country that has been struck by a disaster.
The humanitarian nature of this initiative is representative of the increasingly concrete nature of the external dimensions of EU solidarity.
However, I believe that it is extremely important for this same initiative to be regarded as leading to the coordination and management of those disasters which occur inside the European Union.
I recall the disaster which devastated the island of Madeira last February and, on that basis, I consider it essential to create this Civil Protection Force whilst, at the same time, making best possible use of existing mechanisms.
I voted for this own-initiative report by the European Parliament, which seeks to subject all financial products to supervision by the market authorities.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive facilitated the transfer of market activities to better regulated and more transparent negotiating spaces.
Echoing the conclusions of the September 2009 G20 summit in Pittsburgh, this report aims to ensure that 'all standardised OTC derivative contracts [are] traded on exchanges or electronic trading platforms'.
Since the implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), the European financial markets have undergone unprecedented changes, both as a result of the directive and for other reasons linked to the crisis.
It is essential to apply legislation, designed to ensure the effective regulation and transparency of these technological developments, in order to prevent the creation of any systemic risk to the overall functioning of the markets.
The report does not go beyond arguments for greater regulation of trading platforms, referring to the need for 'increasing transparency and safety within the markets in financial instruments', and to the need for 'equitable treatment' of multilateral trading facilities and regulated markets.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
It seems that a significant consequence of the competition brought about by implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) has been market fragmentation which has, in itself, encouraged the explosive growth of HFT strategies.
With the recent implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), the European financial markets have undergone unprecedented changes, both as a result of the directive and for other reasons linked to the crisis.
For these reasons, it is essential to start applying legislation designed to ensure the effective regulation and transparency of these technological developments, in order to prevent the systemic risks to the overall functioning of the markets from being created again in the future.
Data acquisition costs in Europe are much too high.
My decision to vote for report is in line with the current situation on European capital markets, which are going through a period of unprecedented flux thanks to new technological advancements.
The impact of new technology and the advent of new market participants has led to faster trading speeds and to an increase in direct market access by clients of trading platform members.
I thus voted in favour of Parliament's resolution, as it supports the idea that: multilateral trading facilities should be subject to the same level of oversight and, therefore, regulated in a comparable manner; investment firms which provide a portfolio management service and act in a portfolio management capacity should benefit from the best possible terms from investment companies; the Commission should evaluate the effects of setting a minimum order size for all dark transactions; firms that pursue high-frequency trading strategies should be analysed to ensure that they have robust systems and controls with ongoing regulatory reviews of the algorithms they use.
There are now 136 multilateral trading facilities (MTF), as well as the primary exchanges, which collectively make up the organised trading venues.
Regulation needs to recognise that these technological advances are in need of suitable provisions in the legislation so that they do not fall through regulatory gaps and inadvertently cause systemic risk to the overall functioning of the markets.
in writing. - This own-initiative report sets the framework for the discussion of MiFID, to which the OTC Directive, the rise of ESMA and, of course, EMIR are related.
I consider it essential that intervention following an incident should be matched by significant cooperation between the different authorities of a Member State (civil protection, military, police, etc.), as well as between the national authorities of the various Member States and European institutions.
In other words, I consider a coordinated and comprehensive approach to be essential.
In this regard, I believe that recognising the importance of each of these stages is crucial to ensure the proper implementation of risk assessment studies, response and counter measures.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important resolution because it is high time to pay attention to Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) risks which present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation.
At the same time, aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a Member State.
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks present a new challenge to society, as well as a new basis for possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters or pandemics.
This is why I voted in favour of this report.
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear disasters, whether accidental or resulting from a terrorist attack, pose serious threats to the security and health of EU citizens and are the cause of environmental pollution and contamination.
I voted for this report because I agree with the rapporteur's position that the CBRN Action Plan proposed by the European Commission, the goal of which is to ensure the efficient interaction of national and EU initiatives in addressing CBRN risks and preparing the necessary response, underestimates the risks which are not confined by the EU's borders.
Whether accidental or intentional, these represent a serious threat and have the potential to cause devastating and far-reaching effects on the security, welfare and health of the European public, as well as on the environment, our cultural heritage and basic infrastructure.
in writing. - Although I agreed with the majority of the Gomes report, I have voted against it as it focuses too much on the EU coordinating civil-military cooperation.
Another point which is just as important is that the report adopted by Parliament proposes the creation of mixed European rapid intervention teams which will be made up of military personnel, police officers and medical staff who will provide an effective response in the event of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear disasters.
As a result of the compromises obtained by the shadow rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), my colleague, Mrs Hankiss, the text upon which we are voting today is much more detailed and balanced, giving many specialist matters relating to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety significant priority, not only in terms of preventing accidents and responding appropriately to natural disasters, but also with reference to the clear and present danger presented by terrorism of this nature.
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks have given a new dimension to terrorist attacks, industrial accidents, natural disasters and pandemics, given that such threats know no borders and could result in innumerable victims.
However, the amendments introduced by the Council have made the Action Plan less robust, and have rendered both the planned measures and the monitoring and inspection of their application less binding.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to entrust the Commission with a strengthened regulatory role, as I believe that is the only way it will be possible to fill in the existing gaps in the powers conferred in this area by the different Member States.
The report makes no reference to certain decisions such as that recently taken by the UK to sell nuclear technology to India, a country which is not a signatory to the NPT, nor to the decision by France and Germany to cooperate in the maintenance of their nuclear weapons, justifying this by a hypocritical 'cost rationalisation'.
Nothing is said either about the assistance given by the main EU powers and by NATO to the project to install anti-missile systems in Europe, or on the decision by NATO to maintain its role as a 'nuclear alliance'.
in writing. - Explanation of Vote on the Gomes report 'Strengthening chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear security in the European Union - an EU CBRN Action Plan'.
in writing. - Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation.
At the same time, an aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a Member State (civil protection, military, law enforcement, etc.) as well as between national authorities of different Member States and EU instances.
Therefore, an all-hazard coordinated approach is needed.
I voted for this report which sets out such a coordinated approach.
These are all inconsistencies that prevent me from voting for this text.
I think that the EU should be prepared to face any attack or accident which jeopardises Europeans' security and health.
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation.
Aftermath interventions demand large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a Member State as well as between national authorities of different Member States and European bodies.
In order to draw up a comprehensive document on the subject of nuclear security, specialists with wide experience of nuclear energy and in the uses of nuclear technology need to be involved.
The European Union, and the European Parliament in particular, cannot draw up such a document on its own.
I voted in favour, but I consider that this report is a mere epilogue for a book on EU nuclear security.
The security of the civilian population in the event of possible incidents of a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear nature is a very important matter and ambitions in this regard should essentially be supported.
I voted in favour of increasing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear security in the European Union and I am delighted to have had the opportunity to be the shadow rapporteur on this issue.
This assessment and standard-setting framework must be sufficiently flexible so that it can be adapted to changing technologies, which, as well as making our lives easier, can also become a deadly weapon when in the hands of terrorists.
Although the establishment and supervision of common security standards would help to provide security, we should not, in every case, create new institutions or unduly complicated procedures.
I voted in favour of the report on strengthening chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear security in the European Union - an EU CBRN Action Plan, for the same reasons as those being put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
I would emphasise the need for an EU-level approach to prevent and detect attacks and/or accidents because the threat of CBRN attacks is 'global', and the focus given to the need to strengthen CBRN security if we are to prevent terrorist attacks.
Unfortunately, the Action Plan adopted by the Council does not even make reference to the solidarity clause.
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation.
At the same time, an aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a Member State (civil protection, military, police etc.), as well as between national authorities in different Member States and EU instances.
Therefore, an all-hazard coordinated approach is needed.
I voted for this report because it calls on the Council and the Commission to rapidly review and strengthen the Action Plan according to the recommendations in this report and to ensure its swift implementation, given that CBRN accidents or attacks pose serious threats to the security of the people living in the European Union and can disrupt critical infrastructures and the normal functioning of societies in one or more EU Member States without any respect for borders.
This means that there must be recognition of the need to implement an effective Action Plan in order to ensure appropriate linkages between the approaches and initiatives of the different Member States and the EU regarding the prevention of, detection of, preparation for and response to CBRN incidents.
in writing. - Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimisation.
At the same time, an aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a Member State (civil protection, military, law enforcement, etc.) as well as between national authorities of different Member States and EU bodies.
Therefore, an all-hazard coordinated approach is needed.
I agree with the general intention to create a tripartite agreement between the EU, Member States and the regions, since modernisation, interconnected infrastructure and assistance for investment plans and development projects respecting the specific characteristics of each region are fundamental.
The simplification of procedures and the allocation of resources from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund in a manner which is accessible to all interested parties is essential.
This will guarantee, on the one hand, the participation of all actors in society and, on the other, better application of EU programmes, instruments and policies.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important resolution as the implementation of the cohesion policy is predominantly decentralised and based on sub-national authorities assuming responsibility.
I agree that the multi-level approach should be applied not only vertically but also horizontally, among actors of the same level, in all shared-competence Union policies including the cohesion policy, which plays a forerunner role in the application of multi-level governance, as an instrument to improve the quality of decision-making processes through the active involvement of sub-national authorities from the pre-legislative phase of the debates.
Also, it is important to stress that funding application procedures are too complicated, and an excessive number of checks are likely to discourage potential beneficiaries of cohesion policy from the efficient absorption of funds and maximisation of their impact.
Therefore, there must be sufficient administrative capacity both at EU and at regional and local level in order to increase the added value of the cohesion policy and ensure the sustainability of actions.
At a time of various degrees of decentralisation in the Member States, we need to show that the European Parliament is also fully engaged with making regional politics an instrument for better governance in Europe.
However, certain things can be improved, particularly in the area of multi-level governance; in other words, the coordinated action of the Union, of Member States and of regional and local entities.
I voted for this European Parliament initiative, which emphasises the crucial role that local authorities play in implementing regional policy while, at the same time, calling for multi-level governance to be improved.
I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Romanian fellow Member, Mrs Mănescu, on good governance with regard to the EU regional policy: procedures of assistance and control by the European Commission.
Like the overwhelming majority of my fellow Members, I am in favour of a strong cohesion policy where financial resources are maintained after 2013, while rejecting any attempts at renationalisation.
European Union cohesion policy is the principle means of ensuring sustainable regional development.
Implementation of cohesion policy is predominantly decentralised and based on sub-national authorities assuming responsibility.
The Treaty of Lisbon has allowed territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process, to facilitate better and more effective implementation of cohesion policy measures, adapted to the needs of individual regions and their populations.
I feel that it is necessary to maximise the potential for territorial cooperation, which, in some regions, has hitherto gone untapped, and to promote more active application of the principle of partnership, ensuring effective cooperation between the private and the public sectors.
Mrs Mănescu's report seeks to bring the European Union closer to its citizens: it advocates better control by the Commission of local authorities' involvement in the development of cohesion policy.
This document is part of a process to simplify very complex administrative procedures aimed at developing our regions and stepping up collaboration between local authorities in the various Member States.
The fact that it has been adopted by a large majority confirms the importance given to improving the use of European funds.
I voted in favour of this report because in cohesion policy, decision-making processes are improved through the application of multi-level governance and the involvement of sub-national authorities.
Therefore, in order to improve the control system and increase assistance to sub-national authorities, it is necessary for the Commission to strengthen its supervisory role and procedures.
Higher investments, both in financial assistance and training, should be ensured for national and regional administrations to increase the capacities and knowledge of rules by authorities in charge of programme management.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs abstained on the final vote on the Mănescu report for the following reasons.
Consequently, Conservative MEPs have abstained on the final vote.
The decentralisation of Member States' powers is based on sharing responsibilities between the different levels of government.
I agree with the adoption of this resolution, since it focuses on the specific nature of local and regional challenges, calling attention to the need to consider integrated approaches which emphasise the regions' specific characteristics, such as their geographical and natural disadvantages, depopulation and the specific characteristics of the outermost regions, but which also recognises the different administrative processes existing in the various Member States.
These approaches must also allow the coordination of the interests of the various actors involved in order to facilitate governance at several levels.
The resolution also points to the fact that application procedures are too complicated and have an excessive number of checks which discourages potential beneficiaries of cohesion policy, as well as to the requirement to consult the general public in order to legitimise the decision-making process.
I voted for this report which proposes to reinforce multi-level governance with a view to achieving greater involvement by sub-national authorities at the policy development stage.
I think that citizens' interests will be much better represented if regional and local authorities are involved in the decision-making process right from the outset.
Furthermore, the European Commission's role in monitoring the way in which the Structural Funds are managed is unarguable.
However, this audit role of the European Commission needs to be enhanced.
The Cohesion Fund accounts for more than one third of the total EU budget.
Its ultimate aim is to reduce disparities between levels of economic development in the various regions, targeting resources specifically towards growth and employment.
Regarding the principle of cofinancing, whilst we recognise the importance of the assumption of responsibilities by national authorities when applying cohesion policy, we consider that, in view of the current profound crisis, something which has particularly affected certain Member States and their regions, the rules relating to cofinancing should be made more flexible.
This will allow a better absorption of the funds set aside for cohesion policy.
In particular, the maximum rate of cofinancing should be lowered to 10% for all Structural Funds.
I approved of this report because the 2006 report of the European Court of Auditors showed that the control systems in place for the cohesion policy were not effective enough, and the error rate in the expenditure reimbursed was too great (12%).
The 2008 report confirmed this data with 11% of funds unduly reimbursed.
Overly complex rules governing the Structural Funds are partly responsible for these errors.
The shared management system characterising the cohesion policy implies a high degree of complexity in the interpretation and application of the rules given the numerous actors involved.
Therefore, rules should be simplified to ensure more user-friendly procedures and not discourage potential beneficiaries from participating in projects.
in writing. - Over the last decades, decentralisation of powers in several Member States has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities' competences in the delivery of Community policies.
The incorporation by the Reform Treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into the Community law for the policies of shared competence allows today territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process, both for the design and the implementation of policies, as fully dignified partners, to participate in achieving the Community objectives.
This important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by the Parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies, always respecting the different national constitutional assets.
An efficient implementation depends strongly on how policies are conceived; involving local and regional authorities also in this phase - as those knowing best the needs of their territory and of its population - is an assurance of more effective results at a later stage.
It is crucial to place the emphasis on the pre-legislative phase of the decision-making process and on the added value offered by policies and best practices implemented at local and regional level to the development of territorial strategies in the EU.
In order to further impose these competitive clusters to serve the interests of the sacrosanct common market, this House is proposing that they be overseen by the European Commission to the detriment of elected governments.
EU regional policy should be centred on reducing inequalities in the income and living conditions of those living in the European regions.
The report aims to strengthen the role of the Commission in supporting regional and local authorities.
I therefore voted against this motion.
Over recent years, the European Union has seen local authorities become increasingly significant in the Member States.
Decentralisation of the management of the territory to smaller, local bodies has meant that, due to the principle of subsidiarity, these have assumed greater power and influence, mainly concerning specific competences delegated to them by the Member States.
The principle of sub-national subsidiarity, introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, puts into practice the aim of involving the regions in the European decision-making process.
The increase in dialogue with the European Commission involves the principles of good governance in relation to regional policy and the adoption of other procedures of assistance and control.
I welcome this important step for governance, which responds to the repeated calls by the European Parliament for an increase in sub-national entities' participation in drawing up and implementing European policy.
I also agree on promoting the exchange of information between the European Groupings of Territorial Cooperation (EGTC) that have already been created, as well as those in the process of being set up within the framework of existing programmes.
Over recent decades, the decentralisation of powers in several Member States has reinforced regional and local authorities' competences considerably in the development of Community policies.
Emphasising the prelegislative phase of the decision-making process and the added value offered by the policies and best practices implemented at local and regional level to the development of territorial strategies in the EU helps ensure their effectiveness and sustainability.
The following aspects need to be considered to see how the multi-level governance approach can be improved in the area of cohesion policy: the vertical and horizontal dimensions of governance, setting up real partnerships with local and regional authorities, territorial cohesion and cooperation, simplification of rules at EU and national level (Member States should simplify their national provisions and develop a stronger culture of evaluation at all levels in order to ensure effective controls and avoid errors - in 2008, 11% of funds were mistakenly reimbursed).
The Commission's role needs to be strengthened in supporting regional and local authorities, with serious reflection about the ways in which to improve governance and, consequently, the effectiveness of the delivery system of the Structural Funds for the period after 2013.
I believe that it is necessary to improve governance in the area of regional policy with a view to making the management of the Structural Funds and of cohesion policy not only more effective, but also more balanced.
in writing. - Over the last few decades, the decentralisation of powers in several Member States has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities' competences in the delivery of Community policies.
The incorporation by the reform treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into Community law for policies of shared competence today allows territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process, both for the design and the implementation of policies, as fully dignified partners, to participate in achieving the Community objectives.
This important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by Parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies always respecting the different national constitutional assets.
The decentralisation of government brings increased responsibility to regional and local authorities.
Indeed, it is authorities at local level which best understand the needs of their regions and the people who live there, thanks to which they can adapt general objectives to their own potential and possibilities.
We should support a grass-roots approach, which should be flexible and integrated.
There is a need to reduce administrative costs and simplify procedures, the complicated nature of which, in many cases, not only results in mistakes, but often discourages beneficiaries from using support which is available to them.
We should, therefore, ask ourselves if we want to undertake work of an experimental nature in the spirit of the priorities of the 2020 strategy, or if we would rather reduce the number of mistakes, which would mean discouraging our citizens from undertaking innovative but sometimes uncertain work.
Good governance in European regional policy is essential if such policy is to be successful.
However, a bottom-up perspective should be adopted, because it is local and regional institutions which can best understand the characteristics and problems of the regions.
The Territorial Pact of Local and Regional Authorities on Europe 2020 can add to the strengthening of this contribution to the goals of intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth.
The principles of partnership and cofinancing will contribute to an increase in the responsibility of these institutions and the European Commission should see its supervisory role strengthened, particularly by improving the control and audit system.
in writing. - I voted for this report as it makes important calls on the Commission to strengthen its monitoring role in order to reduce the error rate highlighted in the recent report by the Court of Auditors.
This should also help to reduce the level of error, improve control systems and increase assistance to sub-national authorities and beneficiaries.
I feel this report goes a long way to promoting better cooperation between regions in different Member States, which will only have a positive effect in achieving the aims of cohesion policy across the EU and ensuring that all European Union regions develop harmoniously.
There is a clear need for the amendments and for new issues to be included in order to improve the functioning of Frontex, such as exploitation of the information obtained through the liaison officer networks and exchange of this via ICONet (secure Information and Coordination Network for Member States' migration management services), accessing the External Borders Fund to promote the creation of liaison officer networks and facilitate their operation and, lastly, expediting the system for the presentation of half-yearly reports.
I am convinced that those amendments are very timely and necessary as the EU has to face and manage the increased flow of legal - and also illegal - immigration.
Council Regulation (EC) No 377/2004 of 19 February 2004 established an immigration liaison officers network.
These officers are representatives of Member States posted in a third country and are responsible for facilitating the EU's efforts to combat illegal immigration, in particular, by gathering information for the European Frontex agency.
I gave my support to this text which, as well as reiterating the fundamental rights conditions to be fulfilled by this policy, provides the means by which to effectively control the management of the EU's external borders.
The agency would thus have an opportunity for a more effective exchange of information with the competent authorities of third countries or with international organisations on EU border control issues, through the training of border guards, operational information exchanges and joint operations.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament report because, with the increase in migration flows, it is important to create liaison officer networks.
Given that the current economic, financial and social crisis has encouraged even more people to migrate, the European Union must do all it can to ensure that immigration flows are properly managed.
Furthermore, closer cooperation between officers would guarantee a better exchange of technical knowledge and liaison with colleagues working in third countries.
I would like to underline that the European Union institutions should constantly strive to ensure a safe and swift immigration process and guarantee that EU citizens are protected from the possible dangers posed by irregular and illegal immigration.
This can only be achieved by using all possible effective instruments of international and internal cooperation.
In fact, it is necessary to strengthen the synergies and operational cooperation between the Member States and third countries, in particular, through the liaison officers.
I also believe that it is fundamental to analyse the activities of the immigration liaison officer networks in regions and/or countries of special interest to the European Union, particularly where the circumstances of these regions and/or countries have a bearing on illegal immigration or human rights issues.
I voted against the report on the creation of an immigration liaison officers network because it is designed to further reinforce Frontex, which does all it can to promote the idea of Fortress Europe.
In other words, the idea is to replace the progress needed in immigration and asylum policies with repressive policies, which not only conflict with basic principles and rights, but which are also ineffective and have a disastrous impact on host communities and communities of origin and on the lives of refugees and immigrants.
I voted for this report as I think that it makes significant improvements in the management of immigration flows in the European Union.
Enhancing the remit of immigration liaison offers located in third countries will help Frontex as a whole operate more efficiently, given that it will be based on information and assistance from these officers.
Another point which is also just as important is that these liaison officers will be obliged to respect fundamental rights during their mission.
Using the skills of both immigration liaison officers and Frontex, based on an exchange of information obtained from the liaison officer networks through the Information and Coordination Network for Member States' migration management services, will enable better risk analysis by Frontex, as well as more cooperation in relation to legal and illegal immigration.
In the context of 'mixed' migratory flows, it is indeed crucial to include in their activities an approach that is more mindful and respectful of human rights.
The assignments carried out by ILOs also need to reflect greater transparency and greater democratic supervision; this is now the case, with the exchange of information between the European Parliament, on the one hand, and organisations such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (HCR) and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), on the other, being strengthened.
This report proposes, in the context of Frontex (European Agency at the External Borders of the Member States), an improvement in the exchange of information on illegal migratory flows, illegal immigration and the deportation of persons residing without authorisation, including the introduction of immigration liaison officers networks.
However, the reality is altogether different, and this agency's work, like the measures taken by the national governments, has resulted in failure.
Given that illegal immigrants, and even foreign criminals, are not sent back to their country of origin, one is entitled to wonder how yet more provisions could reverse migratory flows without real political courage backed up by action.
in writing. - The proposal amending Council Regulation (EC) No 337/2004 aims to harness the know-how and experience of immigration liaison officers for the benefit of Frontex and vice-versa, which was not a matter addressed in the original regulation.
Exchanging information and skills between immigration liaison officers and Frontex using the Information and Coordination Network for Member States' migration management services will enable better risk analysis by Frontex, as well as better control over legal and illegal immigration.
I am in favour of this regulation, which seeks to amend the regulation of 19 February 2004 on the creation of an immigration liaison officers network.
These amendments are necessary as a result of the way in which European law in this area has developed and is practised.
The new regulation makes provision for, among other things: • a legal basis between Frontex and the liaison officers; • better use of ICONet and; • increased rationalisation of the reporting systems pertaining to the network's activities.
With this new regulation, we hope that this immigration liaison officers network will become more effective.
The border protection agency Frontex plays an important role when it comes to combating illegal immigration.
This can only be effectively combated in the transit countries.
A dense network of immigration liaison officers and their close cooperation is therefore a sensible measure to enable us effectively to combat mass immigration into Europe with all its negative consequences for the peoples of Europe.
For example, the powers of Frontex should, with the consent of the Member States, be enhanced as quickly as possible in order to ensure that its work is uniform and effective, particularly at the external borders.
It would be important to have a comprehensive strategy for how the external borders of the EU can be better protected and the causes of emigration from the countries of origin better combated.
Although the report does not deal adequately with these considerations, it represents an improvement on the current situation and, for that reason, I voted in favour of it.
The proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 377/2004 on the creation of an immigration liaison officers network introduces amendments which aim to use the knowledge and experience of immigration liaison officers for the benefit of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) and vice versa.
In fact, Frontex could not yet be fully operational without the creation of such a network of liaison officers.
I believe that amending the regulation is essential to providing a genuine platform for the exchange of information between immigration liaison officers and the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union.
in writing. - When the regulation now being amended was adopted on 19 February 2004, Frontex was yet to be officially established.
It was eight months later, on 26 October 2004, that the Council adopted the Regulation establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders.
By virtue of the remits set out in its rules of procedure, Frontex is responsible for carrying out risk analysis based on the information gathered by the competent authorities in the Member States, for facilitating operational cooperation between the Member States and third countries, and for cooperating with the competent authorities of third countries and with international organisations through, for example, exchanges of experience on border control issues, the training of border guards, operational information exchanges and joint operations.
The amendments proposed here are appropriate and necessary.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution as economic immigration is a growing challenge for the EU.
Therefore, the EU must develop balanced legal immigration channels which meet the needs of our labour markets while taking account of the demographic and economic challenges which the EU will face in the near future.
I am convinced that the adoption of this directive will simplify procedures for the admission of third-country nationals for employment purposes, will reduce administrative costs and will also make it easier to check on people admitted to the territory of a Member State and authorised to work there.
Nothing sets immigrants apart from local workers in the Member States of the EU.
I am convinced that we will only be able to fight illegal immigration and undeclared work effectively through balanced legal immigration channels that are mindful of the needs of the labour market.
I voted for this text.
The draft directive on the single permit for third-country nationals was rejected in plenary: that is a strong signal on the part of Parliament because the issue was a crucial one.
For years, we have been talking about creating a single permit for third-country nationals who wish to live and work in a Member State.
Thus, in response to these PPE amendments, we voted by a majority against the final proposal: with 350 votes to 306, it has been rejected and will have to be sent back to the European Commission.
We need to do better: yes to a responsible common immigration policy but no to a restrictive and discriminatory one!
This vote is a victory for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and all workers in the European Union.
This directive should be a general framework directive on rights for third-country workers and should serve as a framework for specific directives, because only then will the European Union goal of a common migration policy be achieved.
By voting in this way, we demonstrated that the European Union cannot be home to a double labour market with double standards, because this would undermine all the social standards we have gained previously.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of Amendments 30, 34, 65, 103, 109 and 114 because although I fully support the UN International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, I believe that regulation of access to labour markets, social security schemes and public housing are matters to be regulated by the Member States which should not be regulated at Community level.
The report on the single permit to reside and work in the European Union has given us the chance to reflect upon and discuss the important role that immigrants can have in our societies.
I supported the proposal for a directive, including the parts that are without prejudice to the more favourable provisions contained in EU legislation and international instruments.
I regret that this House has not adopted the proposal being discussed, which I believe could make a useful contribution to the creation of a European area of freedom and integration between people that wish to work together for the growth of the EU.
For years, we have been talking about creating a single permit for third-country nationals who wish to live and work in a Member State.
The initial legislative proposal stipulated that workers from third countries should enjoy the same treatment as nationals with respect to employment rights (such as access to social security, education and training).
However, according to the text as amended by the rapporteur, Member States would have been authorised to restrict some of these rights.
Formulating a humane and reasonable immigration policy will be a fundamental challenge for society over the next few years, but it can only be done at European level so as to avoid electoral agendas and national knee-jerk reactions.
The issue in question in this proposal is the introduction of a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in the EU.
This presupposes the existence of rules common to all Member States, which aims to put an end to the current differences in approach of the various EU countries and which would make the process of giving legal status to workers quicker, more uniform and more transparent throughout the Union.
On the one hand, the legal migration of labour and, above all, qualified labour, helps to fight clandestine working, and can improve the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing scarcities.
On the other hand, however, we cannot forget that, during a period of economic crisis and vulnerability, when unemployment is growing, labour migration policy must be flexible, as argued by the Commission, but also sustainable and reasonable.
The opportunity for legal immigrants to obtain the necessary residence and work documents by means of a single procedure for the entire territory of the European Union would have been a decisive step forward, and a right and proper corollary to the necessary reinforcement of the fight against illegal immigration through greater cooperation with the coastal Member States and the strengthening of Frontex.
Portuguese workers also contributed to this positive result, through the general strike of 24 November.
However, it is necessary to maintain our vigilance.
At a time when almost 25 million Europeans are registered as unemployed, a directive aimed at facilitating the immigration of job seekers has once again been tabled.
What is more, this text sought to guarantee certain economic and social rights to these immigrant workers, allegedly to avoid any social dumping or unfair competition with indigenous workers or workers who are already in Europe.
Some amendments, in wanting to promote equal rights - and equal costs - between residents and immigrants, were, in fact, tantamount to allowing every kind of immigrant, whether working or not, access to our social benefits.
It is time to decide, at Member State level, to reverse migratory flows, which have become unbearable economic, social and even cultural burdens, and to practise national and Community preference in all areas.
The EU Member States face a constant struggle with the problem of illegal immigration and work carried out in what is known as the shadow economy by citizens of third countries.
Simplifying and standardising procedures for issuing entry and residence permits for citizens of third countries in order for them to start working in a Member State will help limit illegal immigration.
This ensures an appropriate level of legal security and that there will be no interference in Member States' competences.
The directive under discussion will make it possible for all Member States to adopt a common position on economic immigration.
in writing. - In 2001, the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities.
Despite a favourable opinion from the European Parliament, this ambitious proposal, which sought to establish the entry and residence conditions for third-country nationals wishing to undertake an economic activity within the Union, did not survive beyond its first reading within the Council, and the Commission officially withdrew it in 2006.
I welcome the fact that the new legal basis provided by the Lisbon Treaty gives this proposal a good chance of being adopted.
I voted in favour of this report, together with my group, because I believe that it responds well to the considerable demographic challenges that the European Union will face in the coming years by establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals who wish to be admitted to the territory of a Member State in order to work there, and by offering them a secure legal status.
Unfortunately, Parliament's rejection will delay the analysis of this important directive, which would have simplified the often complex administrative procedures for receiving economic migrants.
It would thus have enabled the labour markets of our Member States to respond to current and future manpower needs and would have provided a way of combating exploitation and discrimination, to which these workers too often fall victim.
I shall vote against it and I also condemn it.
This document, which has been rejected by the majority of Members, was a piece of legislation which would have enabled flows of migrants to be better managed.
Secondly, because of the political message which it sends overseas, disproving the idea that Europe is closed and only able to pass repressive measures, and strengthening security at a time when we are responding to the concerns expressed in the Stockholm Programme regarding the creation of flexible immigration policies in order to support the EU's economic development.
The circumstances under which third-country nationals are permitted to reside and work in an EU Member State are a matter for the state in question, not the EU.
The fact that, in certain areas, periodic immigration of well-educated skilled workers may perhaps be useful must not result in an open door policy because, first and foremost, it should be workers from our own population, in other words, EU citizens, who are recruited.
The fact that labour migration can be a problem for workers because it suppresses wage levels and can also lead to dumping prices has been shown time and again in the past.
It was for this reason, for example, that the transitional periods for the free movement of workers were introduced at the insistence of the countries with well-developed social security safety nets.
I therefore voted against the report.
I voted for this report as the European Union has needed for many years now clear rules and procedures about the rights granted to legally resident third-country workers.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Mathieu because I hope that after years of work, the guidelines will be established to draw up a directive that provides a single package of European rules on permits and rights for workers from third countries.
We have been working on a European directive since 2001 without seeing any results.
Long-term economic development of the Union must be supported, so we need to simplify administrative practices regarding permits for third-country nationals who wish to be admitted to the territory of a Member State in order to work there, offering them a secure legal status.
The directive will enable us to meet current and future manpower needs and will provide a way of combating exploitation and discrimination, to which these workers too often fall victim.
I voted in favour of the present report, which was not adopted in the final vote.
I did so because I believe the monitoring of migration in the European Union is a fundamental part of a responsible hosting policy in the Member States.
The best way to combat illegal immigration and clandestine working is to develop a balanced policy towards legal migration, hosting immigrants on the basis of the needs of the labour market in the host state.
At a time without economic growth, it is important not to create false expectations of inclusion, or encourage policies which promote a scarcity of labour.
We therefore welcome the Commission's proposal, which seeks to introduce a single application procedure for third-country nationals applying for work and residence permits.
This should simplify the complex administrative formalities involved in the reception of migrants.
It should also make it possible for the labour markets in our Member States to react to current and future labour requirements and provide a tool for combating the exploitation of, and discrimination against, these workers.
Having a single application procedure and one document becomes meaningless if all of the Member States can issue and demand additional documents.
One of the best ways of combating illegal immigration and undeclared work is to develop balanced legal immigration channels which meet the needs of the labour markets in our countries.
Economic immigration is a reality on which we must impose order, but it is also a necessity in view of the demographic and economic challenges which the European Union will face in the near future.
EU law does not limit the power of Member States to organise their own social security schemes.
However, when exercising this power, Member States should comply with EU law.
Furthermore, working conditions must be respected, including for pay and dismissal, health and safety at the workplace, working time, leave and disciplinary procedures, taking into account any general collective agreements in force.
The European Union must prepare itself for future demographic challenges.
This will be the issue at stake in the new talks prompted by the rejection of this dreadful agreement.
It is based on the fact that, although the Member States provide protection for the victims of crime when within national borders, it has become necessary to develop a European-level mechanism for early warning and prevention.
This takes into consideration the recommendations made by the Stockholm Programme and the procedures resulting from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which allow reports to be provided for on a cross-cutting basis, as well as the first Council proposal for a European victim protection directive of 5 January 2010.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution because it supports the Council's proposal for a directive which provides clear measures concerning the prevention of crime and victim protection in particular.
It is important that victims of violence should not only be prevented in their country from being harmed by offenders, but should also have these kinds of preventive measures within the whole of the European Union.
The adoption and implementation of this directive would show that the EU is determined to put into practice the Stockholm Action Plan, the European Union initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice.
The vote in Parliament on the proposed directive on the European Protection Order for victims sends out an important signal for the protection of people who have suffered from violence.
The European legislative vacuum regarding the protection of victims of violence needs to be filled by a concrete response that is not only limited to the territory of the State in which the victim is present, but which applies across borders.
Through the cooperation of 12 Member States, including Italy, the aim is to activate an early-warning and victim protection mechanism within the territory of the European Union.
Victims of violence must be safeguarded from repeat attacks by their aggressors, and must receive the benefit of preventive measures throughout the European Union.
The draft directive is another step towards achieving the objectives of the Stockholm Action Plan and of the European Union initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice.
Judicial systems vary in the different Member States, as do criminal and civil proceedings.
Victims of violence can benefit from protection measures against their aggressors in their respective Member States.
I voted for this new directive, which allows the judicial authorities of a Member State that has implemented protection measures under its national law to issue a 'European Protection Order', which protects victims on the territory of the other Member States.
I voted in favour of the draft directive on the European Protection Order, which aims to protect victims of crime throughout the European Union.
This initiative aims to introduce a mechanism for judicial and police cooperation between the Member States so that victims of crime who benefit from a protection measure in one Member State will not need to repeat the entire judicial process to obtain protection measures, and so that they may also be protected should they decide to reside or remain in another EU country.
The European Protection Order will be issued at the request of the protected person and should be given not only to women who are the victims of domestic violence, the main group to receive protection, but also to all other victims, such as victims of human trafficking, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, honour killings, incest, gender violence, witnesses, and victims of terrorism and organised crime.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the European Protection Order because its fundamental goals are crime prevention and victim protection.
Currently, even when Member States have made provision for protection orders for victims, the resulting enforcement measures stop at the border of the issuing State.
Only then will we be able to guarantee a safe environment for victims without restricting victims' right to mobility.
Although the Member States' criminal, civil and administrative proceedings are different, all countries must work together to prevent repeat offences.
For most victims, crime has various psychological and moral repercussions that continue long after the crime has been committed.
The EU must concern itself not only with prevention and protection, but also with moral support for victims so that they can begin a new life in any EU Member State.
I have voted in favour of the report on the European Protection Order because it aims to improve the legal position of victims of violent crime.
The specific conflict of views between the civil and criminal aspects of the European Protection Order has, in my view, been eliminated through adoption of the amendment proposal, which adds the recognition of court rulings to cooperation in criminal cases.
I support this resolution as I believe that it is fundamental that victims of violence should benefit from measures to prevent crime and from protection throughout the European Union.
In other words, this protection should not be restricted to a single Member State but should allow the individual to reside or remain in other EU countries.
This measure should be applied to victims of human trafficking, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, honour killings, incest, gender violence, witnesses and victims of terrorism and organised crime.
This draft directive aims to fill a gap in existing legislation regarding the victims of crime, which does not address the issue of preventing crime and the need for a rapid and effective, Europe-wide early warning and prevention mechanism to protect victims.
The creation of a European Protection Order should, for these reasons, become an important way of protecting victims, regardless of the type of violence to which they have been subjected.
Although, on the one hand, we have just adopted legislation regarding the civil and procedural rights of suspects in the EU, on the other hand, we cannot forget the civil and procedural rights of victims who are, without any doubt, vulnerable and lacking in protection to a greater extent.
The adoption of this directive is an important step towards assisting victims, but I hope that the Commission can go further and present a comprehensive and more complete legislative package regarding victims as soon as possible.
I voted in favour of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order.
Unlike, perhaps, some of the more resistant Member States (the United Kingdom, the Netherlands since the last change of government, and so on), I am against limiting the scope to criminal procedures in the strictest sense; I am in favour of including a broader range of procedures.
I hope that the strong signal sent by the European Parliament in plenary will ensure not only that the current deadlock caused by the blocking minority within the Council is broken, but also that the forthcoming Hungarian Presidency carries on looking into this matter.
Protection measures exist in all EU Member States, but cease to take effect when someone crosses the country's borders.
The European Protection Order aims to ensure that the protection offered to an individual in one Member State will be maintained and continued in any other Member State to which the person relocates or has been relocated.
This is the position which the European Parliament adopted today, with 610 votes in favour, 13 against and 56 abstentions.
It is based on the compromise negotiated between Members of this House and representatives of the Belgian Presidency of the EU.
However, the text has yet to be confirmed by a qualified majority of Member States in the Council.
Although most of the protection measures are aimed at women who have been the victims of domestic violence, the new rules should apply to all victims: as the adopted report states, 'this directive applies to protection measures which aim at protecting all victims and not only the victims of gender violence, taking into account the specificities of each type of crime concerned'.
The European Protection Order issued will have the same legal force throughout the Union.
The scope of the text has been extended to include the protection 'of life, physical or psychological integrity, dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity'.
I therefore voted for this text.
in writing. - I welcome the European Protection Order.
The EPO marks a huge step forward in victim rights.
It is a strong instrument which will provide a safer haven for victims of violence across Member States' borders.
Both the Council and the Parliament's legal service found that the legal basis was adequate and, as unanimously supported by JURI, the protection order does not establish obligations to modify national systems for adopting protection measures, as the Member State to which a victim travels is asked to provide protection in accordance with its national law.
in writing. - The ECR Group fully supports the aims and objectives of the proposed European Protection Order and we are keen to see that victims of violence, terrorism, domestic abuse, stalking and/or harassment are protected if and when they move throughout the EU.
This proposal has a criminal law basis; however, some of the offences that this proposal intends to cover are civil law matters, yet there is an absence of the use of Article 81 of the TFEU.
The ECR Group is concerned about how effectively this proposal would be implemented and what message this anomaly sends out to the EU public about how we make law here.
The ECR Group strongly believes that the legislation we produce at EU level must be legally sound and robust and should not compromise Member States' legal systems.
For these reasons, the ECR Group abstained on this report.
in writing. - The proposal for a directive on the European Protection Order, submitted by 12 Member States, is an initiative aimed at preventing crime.
It should be seen as a symbol of regulatory progress in Europe, which is working step by step to ensure that rights and safeguards are the same in every Member State.
As it has been presented, the European Protection Order makes protection for victims wishing to move freely within the European Union a more decisive and faster process.
The difference between our legal systems, including their procedures, is clearly still a constraint.
However, the scope as defined allows our countries to adapt quickly to the new order, thereby strengthening our Union and giving more protection to European citizens, particularly the most vulnerable.
The European Protection Order aims to ensure that the protection offered to an individual in one Member State will be maintained and continued in any other Member State to which the person relocates or has been relocated, regardless of the crime they have suffered.
Any victim of a reprehensible act who receives protection in a Member State of the European Union should be able to enjoy the same protection when he or she travels to another Member State.
I am well aware of the complexity of the initiative and of the challenges it may face, not least because of the potential differences between the Member States' judicial systems and criminal, civil and administrative procedures.
I am in favour, and I consider that this report is the best report of those subject to a vote on 14 December.
The basic criteria have been defined, all issues have been thoroughly worked through, and the rationale is clear.
Now, people who have become the victims of crime will be ensured the protection of the courts in every European Union country if they move from one EU Member State to another.
This will give the investigating authorities and the Public Prosecutor the opportunity to carry out their investigations effectively and the victims of crime will not keep important information from the investigation out of fear.
Since victim protection is still in its infancy and the people affected often do not know who they can turn to in their own country and what their rights are, it is important that victim protection is harmonised within the EU.
I have voted in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of the report on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order because the EU needs a system that increases protection of the lives, safety and physical, psychological and sexual integrity of citizens who are the victims of aggression.
The draft directive aims to strengthen the protection of victims of this type of crime within the EU, because protection measures are currently limited to domestic legislation within Member States.
I voted today in favour of the proposal for a directive adopting a standard mechanism to facilitate and strengthen protection granted to victims of crimes who move between Member States in exercise of their right of freedom of movement.
This report goes against the already adopted Stockholm Action Plan, a European Union initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice.
Despite the problems regarding the legal basis of these amendments, I decided to vote in favour of the report, as I believe that protection measures for the victims or potential victims of crime are a positive thing.
The possibility of enlarging the scope of a legal protection order from one Member State ('the issuing state') to another Member State to which the protected person wishes to move ('the executing state') is a significant advance towards the creation in practice of an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union, and this is an ideal which I share.
Domestic violence is a violation of fundamental human rights and can affect anyone, irrespective of religion, colour or social status.
Romania saw a 35% rise in domestic violence in 2009 compared with 2008.
The European Protection Order must be a strong instrument capable of providing a safer haven for victims of violence across Member States' borders.
This will also include protection against acts of violence committed by groups of people and will apply to all victims of crime, such as victims of human trafficking, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, honour crimes, incest, gender-based violence, as well as witnesses and victims of terrorism and organised crime.
Member States must continue to ensure legal protection, limit the reasons for refusing to recognise or for rejecting a European Protection Order, set a 20-day deadline for the execution of an order and clarify the position with regard to victims who move from one Member State to another.
However, I share the concerns expressed by the rapporteurs, particularly regarding the technical omissions as well as the differences that they highlight between the Member States' legal systems.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio and Mrs Romero López on their excellent work.
Protection measures exist within all EU Member States, but they become ineffective when victims cross borders.
The European Protection Order should ensure that any protection granted to a person in one Member State will apply in all the other Member States to which he or she travels or has travelled.
The European Protection Order may be issued at the request of persons under protection if they decide to move to another Member State, or if they simply wish to spend time there.
The Member State that issued the protection measure will be responsible for issuing an EPO and sending it to the Member State to which the person intends to travel.
The text still needs to be confirmed by a qualified majority of Member States in the Council, and they will have three years to transpose it into national law.
in writing. - The proposal for a directive on the European Protection Order, submitted by 12 Member States, is an initiative aimed at preventing crime.
Because they move in this way, they are defenceless when judicial and law enforcement cooperation fails to protect them by implementing a rapid, effective, Europe-wide early warning and prevention mechanism.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order.
The directive is indispensable in order that victims of violence can feel comparatively safe throughout the European Union, regardless of where they are living.
It will also be vital to conduct an information campaign aimed at making citizens aware of the possibility of issuing a European Protection Order.
As a result, the victims of violence will receive significantly more protection, and there will be a drop in such crimes.
A joint, comprehensive EU strategy needs to be drafted and implemented as quickly as possible, with the aim of fighting violence against women in all EU Member States.
I hope that the upcoming Polish Presidency will make a significant contribution to the drawing up and adoption of a draft directive on this matter.
I welcome the adoption by a resounding majority of the report on the European Protection Order.
The measure adopted today will enable people who have been granted protection in a Member State to enjoy the same protection in any other Member State to which they may travel.
The directive applies not only to victims of domestic violence, but also to victims of forced marriages, human trafficking and female genital mutilation.
This represents a major step forward for the rights of victims and their mobility within the European Union.
I now call on the Council to follow the European Parliament's position by giving its overwhelming support to the European Protection Order.
in writing. - UKIP condemns all forms of human trafficking as a modern day version of slavery and calls for the toughest penalties within the UK on such activity.
It should be up to elected national governments to decide such penalties individually and to work with other countries to help stamp human trafficking out.
The EU also exacerbates the problem of people trafficking.
As there is freedom of movement within the EU and open borders, along with a single currency, organised crime is allowed to operate much more effectively unchecked.
I am pleased that Parliament has approved at first reading the proposal for a directive on trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - I supported this resolution as trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights.
The Treaty of Lisbon has strengthened EU action in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including in combating trafficking in human beings, and the European Parliament, in becoming colegislator, has a full role to play.
The continued existence of economic and cultural inequalities on a global level has resulted in the development of new forms of slavery, no longer necessarily linked to the realm of sexual exploitation, but also to that of economic exploitation.
They deprive their victims of the values of freedom and equality on which modern society is based.
One year after the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, there have been many initiatives in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters.
We now need to strengthen the work of the EU by providing incentives for anti-trafficking actions, collecting data in order to compile reliable statistics, and establishing closer cross-border cooperation, including the exchange of information and best practice, as well as closer collaboration with Eurojust and Europol.
Victims need protection, including legal protection.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the Commission proposal for a directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the European Parliament report on it, because they impose uniform and harmonised criminal legislation and penalties on the Member States.
The EU has set its mind on exploiting the workers' vulnerability and gradually getting them to believe that single, uniform rules of criminal law are needed in all sectors and in all the Member States.
The imposition of harmonised criminal law in the Member States of the EU, with the unashamed stated objective of strengthening the Euro-unifying and state mechanisms of repression in order to consolidate the power of the monopolies, is yet another heavy blow to grassroots freedoms.
I hope that this new directive will succeed in filling the gaps in the previous judicial framework and that the Anti-Trafficking Coordinator role is established within a clear legislative framework.
Although the Treaty of Lisbon strengthened the European Parliament's role in judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, the Member States are the ones that can play a key role in combating this crime.
Trafficking in human beings is an abomination that the European Union unfortunately cannot ignore.
This new directive, for which I voted, replaces the former framework decision, in accordance with the new powers in this regard.
By bringing together the acquis communautaire in this area and concentrating it within a single text, this directive is destined to play a major role in the fight against human trafficking.
Hundreds of thousands of people are trafficked in the EU each year for the purposes of, among other things, sexual exploitation, forced labour, the illegal trade in organs and begging.
This modern form of slavery is a terrible crime and a gross violation of fundamental human rights.
Children are most at risk from human trafficking, and there must be help and protection available for all victims of trafficking, especially children.
I support this report.
Trafficking in human beings is a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights.
This crime is widespread across the world and may take many forms, relating to sexual exploitation, forced labour, the illegal trade in human organs, illegal adoptions, etc.
We therefore urgently need to take active measures to support a strategy on fighting trafficking in human beings, in which significant attention would be paid to combating and preventing trafficking in human beings.
Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure effective systems of assistance and support for victims, providing for the right to compensation, necessary medical treatment and free legal and psychological assistance, with special attention being paid to children.
The strategy on fighting trafficking in human beings should also include social dimensions and the dimensions of immigration, asylum and reintegration policies.
Moreover, in order to reduce the scale of offences, it is necessary to provide for effective and appropriate penalties for those who violate the provisions of the directive.
I supported the report because human trafficking is a serious problem which we need to tackle, and the measures set out in the Treaty of Lisbon are not forceful enough to overcome criminality in this area.
It is a grave offence and a huge infringement of fundamental human rights which forces people into dependence through threats, violence and humiliation, and should be subject to a minimum sentence of 10 years.
In addition, in my opinion, we need to adopt a victim-based approach which incorporates the identification of all potential categories of victims and special measures aimed at protecting them, focusing, in particular, on children and other risk groups, as Edit Bauer mentioned in her report.
Today, the European Parliament adopted an historic and particularly important directive strengthening the fight against trafficking in human beings.
The new directive contains a very important provision whereby, in addition to penalties, the Member States should include such sanctions as the seizure of property and take the necessary measures to seize and confiscate instrumentalities and proceeds from offences, as only then will these offences no longer be economically viable.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that with the increase in the scale of these offences in Europe, the EU's approach must be more oriented towards human rights, with most attention being paid to preventive actions, victim protection, return and reintegration policy and social issues.
However, on many occasions, they lose sight of the action involved in reintegrating into society those who have fallen victim to human trafficking.
Education and prevention campaigns must obviously be focused in the less developed states in the European Union where broad sections of the population are vulnerable due to material shortages.
The extent of human trafficking is huge at the moment, but we do not know the real scale of this phenomenon due to a lack of precise, centralised EU data.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Bauer and Mrs Hedh on tackling the difficult task of preparing a report on such a topical issue.
Trafficking in human beings is one of the greatest evils of our times, on a par with slavery; it reduces its victims to a state of exploitation and dependency by ruthless criminal organisations.
Unfortunately, this is a phenomenon of vast proportions; we do not know exactly how vast due to a lack of information.
These can be implemented under Article 79 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which identifies the legal basis within the framework of the common immigration policy.
To conclude, I agree with the rapporteur's request, namely: to increase penalties for traffickers in human beings and confiscate their assets; to make it a criminal offence for anyone to knowingly use the services of trafficking victims; and to provide greater assistance for victims.
I voted in favour of this directive because increasing efforts to combat human trafficking is a fundamental element of it.
The EU's response to this now covers prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation, the exploitation of workers through forced labour and begging, organ trafficking, illegal adoption, forced marriage, drug trafficking and even the exploitation of an individual to commit petty theft or robberies.
It has been possible to reach a balanced compromise, creating an instrument capable of dealing more effectively with this type of criminal activity, and creating more rigorous policies and making penalties more severe, including prison terms of five to 10 years and the seizure of the proceeds of crime.
From now on, common rules will define the offences and penalties applicable to traffickers.
The trafficking of human beings today is, for its victims, an inhumane modern-day form of slavery.
For its perpetrators - criminal organisations involved in prostitution and sexual exploitation, illegal adoption, forced labour, illegal immigration and illegal organ trafficking - it is an extremely lucrative activity.
Since various European countries are the 'destination' for such networks, I welcome this initiative to create a common framework for preventing and combating human trafficking at European level, an approach which stems from Parliament's proposal for a resolution, on which we voted on 10 February 2010.
We know that it is not enough to adopt legal instruments to combat human trafficking and protect its victims.
For these reasons, the adoption of this document is only one step in the long, hard fight which must continue if we are to end human trafficking.
Last week, we adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims, and I am very pleased with the result of this vote.
Thirdly, our text provides for a whole range of assistance and support measures for victims, and we must not forget that there are reportedly several hundreds of thousands of victims in the European Union each year.
Time has proven that the existing framework was not effective enough.
The text we adopted last week demonstrates that the will is there to step up our action to protect citizens and to prosecute traffickers throughout Europe.
This text is the first binding European legislation on the subject.
The gender perspective that underpins the text is to be welcomed, as it is often women who are the victims of human trafficking.
Another important point is that victims will not be prosecuted for crimes committed as a result of trafficking, such as breaking immigration laws.
in writing. - The ECR Group strongly believes that in the 21st century, it is simply abominable that slavery still exists on our Continent, and believes that people-trafficking will only be combated if all nations work together at the highest levels to prevent it.
The ECR Group supported the resolution overall and the text amended by the LIBE and FEMM committees.
Trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and a severe violation of fundamental human rights.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon gave the EU greater powers in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, and the report adopted today, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims, represents the European legislator's commitment in this area.
The text identifies minimum rules for defining criminal offences and imposing sanctions on traffickers, and introduces common rules to improve prevention and the protection of victims, who shall have to receive assistance, including legal representation.
in writing. - Trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights which reduces people to a state of dependency via threats, violence and humiliation.
The scale of this phenomenon is impressive, but certainly not known in full.
It is clear that trafficking in human beings is a serious crime and a serious infringement of fundamental rights.
In this way, another 100 reports could be written, about vice, about terrorism, about killing, about fanaticism, about fraud, about robbery, about rape, about insults.
Unofficially, however, it is very much in existence in the form of human trafficking.
Some of the fundamental considerations in the report are right, but in other areas, I cannot give my consent without reservations.
Romanian children are being brought to central Europe and forced to steal and beg, and elderly and disabled people are also being forced to beg.
According to Europol, there are hundreds of thousands of victims in the EU alone.
Instead of placing the countries of origin under obligation with regard to the destruction of mafia structures and providing victims with local help and the opportunity for training and, therefore, a future in their own country, the EU is moving in the direction of residence permits and exemption from punishment for victims of human trafficking.
The protection of individual freedom is a fundamental right to be fought for, insofar as violations of human rights that reduce people to a state of dependency via threats, humiliation and violence are a heinous and very serious crime.
As a result, the European Union is taking steps to prevent and combat the phenomenon by applying rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of organised crime.
I consent to the fight against this phenomenon because I hope to see the development of an action aimed at combating trafficking in human beings, the development of a victim-focused approach, with special attention given to women and children, and, lastly, the targeted organisation of information and awareness campaigns run through the education and school system in the countries of origin, transit and destination for trafficking.
A policy to prevent and combat human trafficking is a fundamental issue at the heart of the EU.
I share the objective of creating tougher rules in this area, an environment which is hostile to human traffickers, greater protection for victims and more rigorous prevention measures.
I thus agree with the European Parliament proposal to create an Anti-Trafficking Coordinator.
I also wish to emphasise the positive nature of the proposed penalties, particularly a prison term of up to 10 years and the possibility of 'seizing the assets' of the criminal, as well as of the Council proposal which urges Member States to use the seized assets for the purpose of assisting and protecting the victims, including compensating them.
Human trafficking is a clandestine activity carried out on a global scale, as well as being a serious violation of human rights and a social phenomenon with repercussions for the whole of society.
In Romania, approximately 780 victims were registered in 2009.
At least 416 of these were victims of forced labour and at least 320 were victims of forced prostitution.
The victims identified last year also included 176 children trafficked for forced labour and prostitution.
I voted in favour of the resolution as I believe that it is essential for there to be a coordinated and consolidated European Union strategy against human trafficking.
I believe that, in line with the resolution adopted on 10 February 2010, the approach taken in combating human trafficking must prioritise a global view of the phenomenon and focus on the defence of human rights.
I congratulate Mrs Bauer and Mrs Hedh on their excellent work: the text adopted today will make the sanctions against traffickers tougher; it will provide greater protection for victims and will strengthen prevention.
Prostitution, exploitation of children, forced labour: it is calculated that, each year in Europe, hundreds of thousands of people are sold as though they were objects.
The EU considers that the main victims of trafficking are women and children, exploited for the purposes of prostitution (43%) or of forced labour (32%).
Under the new rules, victims will have to be given assistance and, in particular: appropriate accommodation and material assistance, necessary medical treatment, including psychological assistance, counselling and information, and translation services where appropriate.
in writing. - This legislation represents an important step forward in combating this inhumane and degrading crime, and we welcome its adoption today.
However, the aim of the directive was to address prevention, prosecution and protection, and the Greens regret that the provisions on victim protection are not as strong as we believe is possible and necessary.
The position of victims and their legal status or their rights to legal assistance could, and should, have been much stronger.
In the first instance, it is the first time in the European Union's history that binding European legislation has been adopted to combat human trafficking.
In the second instance, the European Parliament and the Council reached an agreement at first reading, which means that the provisions of this directive will be implemented as quickly as possible.
I am therefore delighted with the result of this historic vote.
The illegal trafficking in human beings really should be viewed as present day slavery.
The Treaty of Lisbon strengthens the actions of the EU in the area of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters - including human trafficking.
I strongly support the EU-Georgia agreement on readmission of persons residing without authorisation as a sufficiently sound framework is in place in Georgia to ensure that the rights of those persons treated under the agreement will be respected.
The European Union must pursue its engagement with the countries of the South Caucasus and protect this area.
This region has strategic importance for the European Union, which can assist this region in its economic and commercial development.
I feel that this agreement with Georgia on readmission is relevant from a regional point of view and will also support EU efforts to enhance cooperation with other countries in the region.
My colleague, Nathalie Griesbeck, was rapporteur on both of these agreements that concern the movement of persons between the EU and Georgia.
The actions of the European Union must be based upon the principles of good governance and respect for democracy and human rights.
On this basis, I voted in favour of the agreement with Georgia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, as I believe that it is a contribution towards the achievement of the above objectives.
The Prague Summit Joint Declaration of 7 May 2009 establishing the Eastern Partnership has underlined the importance of promoting the mobility of citizens in a secure environment, through visa facilitation and readmission agreements.
This readmission agreement is therefore a necessary complement to the adoption of the visa facilitation agreement reached with Georgia, which would necessarily have to be accompanied by an improvement in the security conditions necessary to combat cross-border crime and illegal immigration.
I hope that, based on this agreement and in the spirit of joint commitment, the EU and Georgia can effectively fight illegal immigration and contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and civil society in that country.
Bearing in mind the results of dialogue over human rights between the EU and Georgia, which took place this year, the fact that Georgia has ratified a number of relevant international conventions on the protection of fundamental rights, its Membership of the Council of Europe and its participation in the Eastern Partnership, which is based on commitments to the principles of international law and to fundamental values, I voted in favour of signing this agreement.
The agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is an important stimulus to the strengthening of relations between Georgia, its neighbouring countries and the European Union, as well as to the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. - I welcome this report which is the sister of the report on the issuance of visas between the EU and Georgia.
The package should ease travel and improve the EU's relations in this part of the world.
This agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation is essential as a stimulus to relations between Georgia, its neighbouring countries and the European Union, as well as to the fight against illegal immigration.
Finally, it must not primarily be asylum seekers, or even criminals, that benefit from visa-free travel.
In my opinion, the readmission agreement is not restrictive enough and therefore, I abstained from the vote.
Furthermore, reducing the bureaucracy and controls with regard to a neighbouring country can only improve relations with that country, creating the conditions for greater control of the area and, hence, for more security, development and stability.
The process of strengthening relations between the European Union and the countries of the Southern Caucasus, including Georgia, is vital if we are to create a solid, coherent and effective foreign policy.
There is also what is called the fast-track process, agreed in relation to people intercepted in the 'border region', that is to say, within an area that extends up to 5 kilometres from ports, including customs zones, and international airports in Member States or in Georgia.
I fully agree with the rapporteur Mrs Griesbeck's assertion that information campaigns are essential in Georgia in order to inform people of the new situation and to allow them to take advantage of the new possibilities.
I also agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the European Commission, which is responsible for monitoring the application of these agreements, should, after they have been enacted, identify any obstacles or asymmetrical barriers to their proper application and to the reciprocity of procedures, both at consular service level and at the borders to be crossed.
I voted in favour of signing this agreement as I believe that, combined with the agreement on facilitating the issuing of visas, it constitutes very significant progress in relations between the EU and Georgia, signalling an important stage in its integration into Europe and, at the same time, providing an incentive for the country to promote the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
I voted in favour of the principles espoused in this report, which reinforce the idea that the European Union can only be competitive globally if it mobilises the convergence of its regions and Member States.
Although, on the one hand, I agree that many regions still need investment in infrastructure and accessibility, on the other, I would stress the importance of investment in research and innovation, with the participation of all levels of government and private operators being fundamental to this, so as to improve the absorption and application of funding.
in writing. - I supported this resolution as it provides a very much needed framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the EU's global competitiveness.
Cohesion policy is the EU's key policy for enabling the regions to face growing challenges, such as climate change, population ageing, social migration, energy, or the economic and financial crisis, in the best possible way and, hence, to help increase the EU's global economic competitiveness.
I support the rapporteur that this could be achieved by ensuring common living standards for all EU citizens and supporting development by harnessing local and regional specificities, thereby generating added value and economic productivity.
It is important to stress that once the objective has been met of ensuring a similar quality of life by enabling access to infrastructure and quality services, the regions can concentrate on measures aimed at developing local economic potential, with an important stage being the development of local research, development and innovation policies and the appropriate regional infrastructure.
The adoption of the territorial, social and economic cohesion package has a key role to play in the task of setting the European Union's priorities and objectives, thereby guaranteeing personal and economic development and also promoting solidarity between Member States.
I voted for this report as I consider that the cohesion policy has proved to be an effective instrument providing a flexible solution to the socio-economic challenges presented by the economic and financial crisis.
I voted in favour of the fine own-initiative report on achieving real territorial, social and economic cohesion within the European Union by my excellent Romanian colleague, Petru Constantin Luhan.
I back the report fully in its assertion that 'the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion is a necessary condition but that it is not sufficient to guarantee economic competitiveness at world level, which requires significant investments in key areas such as energy, the environment, infrastructure, education, research and development, creative industries and services, logistics and transport'.
The European Union can be competitive only insofar as internal policies bolster its capacity to respond to today's challenges.
A sustainable regional and cohesion policy is essential to remove obstacles to economic development and increase competitiveness in the internal market and globally.
The financial and economic crisis, as well as the gas crisis that had previously dominated Europe, proved that the lack of a suitable regional policy is affecting the whole of Europe.
I agree with the rapporteur that the development of territorial cohesion policy will have a direct impact on whether the goals set in the EU 2020 strategy are achieved and that it is necessary to analyse as soon as possible whether the support provided by the EU to specific regions builds on concrete results that will ensure the sustainability of regional policy.
At a time when the territorial disparities between the different regions of the European Union are becoming more marked, one of the most effective tools for fulfilling the ambitious objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy is a smarter EU cohesion policy that relies strongly on innovation, research and development, whilst catering for the specific situations in the regions.
This policy brings us closer to a more 'sustainable' European economy.
I voted for this report because we must debate the measures adopted at European and national level on social and territorial cohesion which aim to fulfil the objectives of EU policies, including that of increasing global economic competitiveness.
Actually, cohesion policy is the EU's key policy for enabling the regions to face the challenges arising from the economic and financial crisis, climate change, ageing of the population, social migration or energy.
These goals can be achieved by supporting development at local and regional levels and, of course, by ensuring common living standards for all EU citizens.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, we must implement cohesion and regional policy and ensure that this policy is independent and covers all European regions.
I am convinced, in fact, that an effective cohesion policy that can reduce economic, social and territorial disparities can help to increase global economic competitiveness.
Lastly, cohesion policy is essential for achieving the Lisbon Strategy objectives, but to consolidate these results, continued investment needs to be made in infrastructure, as a basis for increasing Europe's economic competitiveness.
The main objective of the report on achieving real territorial, social and economic cohesion within the EU is to increase the global competitiveness of EU companies.
The whole premise of the report is wrong, because it considers, without further analysis, that competitiveness and cohesion are not contradictory and incompatible concepts.
That is why I voted against the report.
The Union's cohesion policy has shown itself to be essential to reducing development disparities between the various European regions.
There is a need to ensure horizontal and vertical coordination between the various levels of governance in order to achieve common standards of development, and economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The active role of local and regional authorities is crucial for ensuring greater economic competitiveness within the global market.
The Treaty of Lisbon establishes as one of its founding values the promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the EU, and solidarity between Member States (Article 3 of the Treaty of Rome).
The main objective of cohesion policy is to promote balanced development between the 271 different regions of the EU, through the reduction of disparities between these regions' levels of development.
That is what I advocate in my opinion annexed to the Cohesion policy: Strategic Report 2010 on the implementation of the programmes for 2007-2013.
The recovery of production in each country and region, the sustainable use of resources and the conservation of the environment constitute strategic channels for the economic development of each country, together with the creation of jobs with rights, and the strengthening of the network of public services and the social functions of the state.
I agreed with this report because, in accordance with the spirit of the treaties, a cohesion policy which aims at reducing disparities in levels of development and prepares the regions to meet long-term and short-term challenges (globalisation, demographic change, the depopulation of rural areas, climate change and biodiversity protection), by taking into account their specific strengths and weaknesses, has proved to be essential in the process of European integration.
I am pleased that there are calls for the Commission to examine and propose working methodologies that promote urban-rural partnerships, combat the depopulation of rural areas and, at the same time, stimulate sustainable urban development, since nearly 80% of the EU population lives in urban areas.
Urban and rural areas play a dynamic role in regional economic development.
The Commission shall continue to simplify the procedures for utilising both the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund in order to reduce the administrative burden on funding beneficiaries.
This report, entitled 'Achieving real territorial, social and economic cohesion within the EU - a sine qua non for global competitiveness?' is intended to spur debate among the Members of the European Parliament on the interdependence and complementary nature of the measures adopted at European and national level to fulfil the objectives of EU policies, including that of increasing global economic competitiveness.
The report seeks to provide a framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the EU's global competitiveness.
It is completely in line with the Europe 2020 strategy.
I voted against this text.
It is essential that it continues to ensure coordination between all levels of governance, in order to achieve the objectives that the EU favours with regard to development, and economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Aid for research, innovation and education is an essential measure for ensuring a labour market for all.
Accordingly, it should also be possible to ensure that common standards of living can be achieved.
I am voting against the report, as it is not clear to what extent the regions of the individual Member States already have the necessary expertise at their disposal.
The report on territorial, social and economic cohesion seeks to provide, in my view, a comprehensive framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the EU's global competitiveness.
Cohesion policy can now ensure cohesive development through specific objectives and instruments that satisfy the economic and social needs of the public.
This particular own-initiative report, which I voted in favour of, follows on from a long hard debate on what is a very sensitive topic for Greece.
It is true that progress to date in political cohesion has helped to reduce the equality divide between the regions.
However, the economic times have changed and cohesion policy needs to adapt to them.
in writing. - (PT) This report results from an initiative by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) during the course of the debate on the future of cohesion and regional policy.
The strengthening of the territorial, social and economic cohesion of the European Union is one of the directions that needs to be taken to contribute to global competitiveness.
I agree entirely with the fundamental objective of this report, which is to emphasise the role that cohesion policy plays in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, creating new jobs, increasing growth and building infrastructure.
I completely agree with the idea that cohesion policy is the EU's key policy for enabling the regions to face these challenges in the best way possible and, hence, to help increase the EU's global economic competitiveness, by ensuring common living standards for all EU citizens and supporting development by harnessing local and regional specificities, thereby generating added value and economic productivity.
However, we believe that regional policy should primarily be the responsibility of the regions and the Member States and that the EU's support should focus on the poorest regions and on various programmes for territorial cooperation.
The report highlights the achievements of the cohesion policy, which is essential to the successful implementation of the EU 2020 strategy as an instrument for eliminating the disparities between regions.
Approximately EUR 86 billion has been allocated to research and innovation for the 2007-2013 period.
However, there is a need, through policies and measures at regional level, to strengthen support for research, development and innovation, together with the development of education and the skills needed by Europeans to ensure an inclusive labour market.
This House has today adopted the own-initiative report highlighting the role that cohesion policy plays in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, creating new jobs, increasing growth, building infrastructure and ensuring the cohesive development of the EU through its specific objectives and instruments, thereby satisfying the economic and social needs of the European public.
Cohesion policy is tangible evidence for EU citizens of the positive impact of actions taken at EU level on local communities and their regions.
We are slowly exiting the crisis which has given rise to additional inequalities within the EU.
Cohesion policy has turned out to be a flexible instrument which has managed to respond to the specific needs of individual regions and, to a certain extent, cushion the negative effects of the crisis.
By bringing the level of development of the regions closer together and ensuring a similar quality of life and equal access to infrastructure, the EU can face up to global challenges.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion is a necessary condition of competitiveness at global level, but is not sufficient to ensure it.
European cohesion policy aims to reduce regional disparities, taking into account the impact of global challenges, such as climate change, demographic change, problems relating to energy and the protection of biodiversity, as well as the new challenges resulting from the economic and financial crisis.
I therefore support the text put forward by the rapporteur, my colleague in the Committee on Regional Development, which reiterates the idea that cohesion and competitiveness are not contradictory or incompatible, but possess complementary elements.
Competitiveness within the European Union may only be achieved through sustainable economic growth, which will see cohesion policy contributing to the successful implementation of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, and to responses to societal and economic challenges.
in writing. - This report sets out Parliament's plans to better coordinate EU structural funding and European innovation spending as a way of tackling differences between levels of development in regions across the EU, and to sustain regional competitiveness.
