This deals with the issue of the property rights of almost 350 000 Thracian Bulgarians, who were forcibly driven out of Turkey at the start of the last century.
Some of them are still alive, while their descendants number almost 800 000.
Turkey regards these people as displaced persons, but numerous historical facts and documents, including the 1926 League of Nations Protocol on the refugee loan for Bulgaria, prove their refugee status.
In its resolution of 21 May 2008, the European Parliament called on Turkey to improve dialogue with Bulgaria on this matter.
This system would provide the milk sector with a higher degree of stability, allowing for the reduction of current public subsidies. (DE) Mr President, on Friday, 15 October, the Rheinische Post ran a headline report concerning the Commissioner for Transport, Siim Kallas, who had apparently said that the high-speed rail link between Paris and Bratislava was an extremely important trans-European east-west axis and that the Commission considered it of the greatest importance that it be built.
He further stated that Stuttgart 21 was a key element of this main line.
I call on Commissioner Kallas to confirm the Commission's position hitherto in a statement to the press and to state loud and clear that the underground station in Stuttgart will not be cofinanced by the European Union. (PT) Mr President, the current watchword in Brussels is austerity, austerity, austerity.
Strikes are already planned for November in Italy, and for 24 November in Portugal.
I would ask: what are we actually waiting for? (EL) Mr President, according to reports in the Greek press and official Greek Government sources, neither of which have been contested, there has been a worrying increase in the number of foreigners with no papers entering via Greece's northern borders.
The interconnections envisaged at European level, together with the general facility for transporting gas in both directions by 2014, as well as gas deposits, allow all the countries in the region to enjoy greater energy independence.
Eritrea is one of the world's poorest countries and dependent on aid from the European Union.
He is being received, of course, because of the massive oil and gas deals that EU companies are doing in Kazakhstan, but I am demanding that those leaders raise this issue of the grotesque degradation of human rights and demand verifiable action from Nazarbayev that it ends. (IT) Mr President, in the last few weeks, more than 30 Mapuche went on hunger strike to protest against the militarisation of their land, being subjected to a dual civil and military jurisdiction and the application of anti-terrorism legislation, in effect since the period of military dictatorship.
Chile must respect the International Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and International Labour Organisation Convention 169 on the right to prior consultation and free and informed consent by these peoples regarding all legislation which interferes with their rights and interests.
Turkey is a country which is proud of its history of genocide, as the act of genocide committed in 1913, where 50 000 Bulgarians were massacred and 300 000 were driven out of eastern Thrace, was the dress rehearsal for the Armenian genocide unacknowledged by the Ottomans.
The European Union has asked the Chinese Premier to appreciate their currency and put an end to unfair commercial practices which have, for years, fuelled tariff wars, highlighting this as a basic condition before addressing the issue of recognising China as a market economy.
Since June, the Chinese currency has risen by 2.15% against the dollar, but is down 9.4% against the euro.
Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon requires further clarification.
In addition, we need to examine how well minorities are protected and binding sanctions need to be officially laid down. (PL) The European Union has declared the year 2010 to be the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
On 17 October 2010, there were 23 commemorations of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty which had been announced by the UN.
This is why the implementation of the European Union programme for free distribution of food to the poorest among us, at a cost of EUR 500 million annually, is so important.
The Commissioner responsible for this matter, Mr Dalli, last week distanced himself from EFSA on the subject of bisphenol A, and the Council has been requesting details on the way in which the agency operates since 2008.
The Commission must take a stance on the austerity measures implemented by the Romanian Government, which are infringing fundamental human rights. (LT) On 10 October of this year, a fire broke out on the 'Lisco Gloria' as it sailed from Kiel to Klaipėda.
Following 11 September, great attention in the European Union was paid to the safety of passengers travelling by plane.
I consider it necessary to call on the European Union and the European Parliament to increase their interest in the region of Central Asia which is extremely turbulent at the moment.
