Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (LT) Mr President, I voted for this resolution on the ongoing negotiations on the 2011 budget.
The failure of last week's Parliament-Council Conciliation Committee meeting has caused significant concern throughout the European Union.
It is regrettable that some do not yet feel they need to adhere to the Treaty of Lisbon.
Thirdly, I would like to call on the European Council to respect and accept this self-evident right of the European Parliament.
Now, however, we need to think about how we can act responsibly.
I might say that, in many respects, the budget's content does not reflect the ideals which we in the European Union share.
Of course, it is also important to ensure that the European Union receives its own funding, thereby enabling it to also carry out the functions that we have together agreed upon and which came our way with the Treaty of Lisbon.
We need to be in the here and now, constructing a budget that will give the European economy a real boost. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for Mrs Saïfi's report because it has achieved the objective it set itself of specifying how human rights and social and environmental standards should be reinforced in international trade agreements.
The human rights clause, in fact, already appears in the most recent international agreements, and that will become standard in future trade agreements.
What is needed, then, is to ensure effective implementation both of the 27 conventions for countries to benefit from the generalised system of preferences (GSP), and of the accompanying measures designed to improve implementation capacity.
Trade can play an important part in ensuring not only civil and political rights, but also economic and social ones.
Just think about the role that trade-related assistance programmes can play in ensuring development in many poor countries around the world.
We must bear in mind that human rights clauses are included in all the bilateral trade agreements the EU makes and also in its GSP and GSP+ regimes with developing countries.
Nor, for that matter, is there much advantage in having in Europe a bloc of similar industrialised economies, where we have cut ourselves off from the growing markets of the rest of the world.
They guarantee high quality information and thus make a significant contribution to the functioning of our democracy.
I am convinced that a high quality, well-balanced public media environment also has a positive influence on the standard of the private media.
Both public and private media need each other and have a positive influence on one another.
If we want a well-balanced, informative media environment, we must support independent public broadcasters as the counterparts of private broadcasters.
It is quite true that we also need commercial channels.
In my opinion, it is an absolute fundamental right and vital for freedom of expression that there is a public channel which is maintained publicly and which concentrates on producing topical and uptodate information for citizens both in the nation states and across Europe.
The European Parliament should celebrate the UN Security Council's resolution concerning women, peace and security.
Women must be involved in the measures taken to try to prevent conflicts and promote crisis management and peace negotiations.
I agree that proper attention should be paid to the implementation of UNSC Resolution 1325, the first resolution to address the disproportionate and unique impact of armed conflict on women, at the highest level in the European Union.
This should be an especially important subject in the ongoing review of the EU's human rights policy when it comes to the elaboration of a comprehensive human rights country strategy and to the evaluation of the EU guidelines on violence against women and girls and those EU guidelines concerning children and armed conflict, as well as combating all forms of discrimination against them.
I support the call to allocate the required funding to fight violence against women and support women's participation in peace, security and reconciliation-related processes. (BG) Mr President, I voted for the resolution on beekeeping and for support for the beekeeping sector because this form of agricultural production is the most specialised agricultural activity carried out.
It shows how extremely important they are.
It is vitally important that the European Parliament ensures time and again that standards are aligned, especially in agriculture, and particularly in the case of beekeeping, between the EU and countries outside the EU.
The Commission must take note of this. (DA) Mr President, please allow me to offer my thanks to Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska for her fine cooperation and an excellent report - a report that here in Parliament today has been made even better than it was before by the majority in Parliament taking a stand on the fact that we in Europe should increase our CO2 reduction target from 20% to 30%.
In this way, we will protect jobs, the economy and the environment at the same time and find simultaneous answers to the major challenges we are facing in Europe.
It has been a good day for Europe with this vote today. (CS) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on energy strategy, which outlines the directions that future European Union energy policy should take.
I would like to emphasise the role of nuclear energy in the current and future energy mix of the EU, including an implicit recognition of the need to extend the lifetime of existing facilities.
The strategy can be regarded as balanced from the perspective of individual sources, even though it does not once mention what is, in my view, the important role of coal when combusted in modernised power plants.
It is difficult to see how we can increase EU energy security and independence without coal as a stable primary resource capable of responding flexibly to sudden increases in energy demand.
Europe must further invest in LNG terminals and help do the same for its newest members.
That is why we should wholeheartedly support the initiative of President Buzek and the former President of the Commission, Jacques Delors, to establish a European energy community. (FI) Mr President, I also think that this report by Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska is an excellent one.
It is important that it should pilot a European energy strategy for the next 10 years.
Innovations in this field will be greatly needed if we want to build a Europe that is cleaner and less dependent on others for energy.
It is true that we need nuclear power as a basic form of energy, but we require new investment in alternative energies.
I do not want to see a coalblack future for energy in Europe. (LT) Mr President, I voted for this report on the European Union energy strategy which covers many important points and issues and in which there is talk of renewable energy, research, innovations, reducing pollution and, of course, increasing energy security.
The bilateral agreements and projects of some Member States, such as the 'Nord Stream' gas pipeline, cause distrust not just environmentally, but also in terms of the overall principle of solidarity.
For this reason, I agree that external pipelines and other energy networks entering the territory of the European Union should be governed by transparent intergovernmental agreements, drawn up strictly in accordance with EU legislation.
I would therefore like to make two points: that the European Union should focus on research, development and innovation; and that a European network should be established for electricity storage and transmission across the Union.
Lastly, I wish to say that I was delighted that a large majority of MEPs voted in favour of this report. (DA) Mr President, I am, of course, pleased that Parliament has adopted a resolution that provides a negotiation proposal that will support our Climate Commissioner, who is going to Cancún to negotiate.
Other things being equal, it would have been better if we had cut down on our demands and thus sent our negotiators off with a more unambiguous and broad mandate than has been the case here today. (ES) Mr President, some have said that the condemnation of Morocco is too mild given the magnitude of the repression of human rights in the Sahara, where Morocco is nothing more than an occupying country, with no sovereignty or legal entitlement whatsoever.
I hope that the international community, which sadly failed in its attempts to prevent genocide in Rwanda, Yugoslavia and Darfur, will, in this case, prevent it in the Western Sahara and we will not have to see it before another court, also in the Hague, but this time a war crimes tribunal. (FI) Mr President, it is regrettable that the foreign policy practised by several EU countries continues to be very colonial in character.
Spain and France, which support Morocco, are particularly responsible for prolonging the conflict.
This is a task for EU Foreign Minister, Lady Ashton, and for all the Member States of the EU too. (BG) Mr President, I naturally voted for the resolution on Ukraine.
We are also concerned at the political process as a whole, including the inability of the opposition parties to participate in the elections without restrictions and discrimination.
However, under current conditions of production and competition, it is not possible to stop using chemicals in agriculture, or to change the methods used to manufacture goods so that they do not require a huge expenditure of energy.
These countries are, after all, leaders in CO2 emissions.
Nature's goods is our most precious commodity, and something that is very difficult to regain once it is lost.
Everything should therefore be done to find the proverbial golden mean. (PL) Mr President, searching for a balance between economic and social interests is very important, but also very difficult.
Economic cooperation which goes hand in hand with respect for the basic rules of democracy and the wellbeing of its citizens is the foundation of the European Union.
International cooperation in this area is unusually important, and the European Parliament should support it to the greatest extent possible. (PL) Mr President, horizontal agreements cover a very wide range of regulations, and oversights in legislative provisions, whether intended or unintended, can lead to the elimination of competition.
I also support the author's demands regarding an improvement in the quality of legislative texts created.
The language used today in many documents is very often difficult to understand and inaccessible for the average citizen.
Whilst I and my fellow Members are willing to tighten our belts together with everyone else in Europe, we do also want to emphasise how important European contributions are in terms of coordinating and supporting the policies pursued by the Union.
I supported this resolution.
The Treaty of Lisbon has brought many important changes in various fields and has given the European Parliament new powers.
The unsuccessful attempt to reach an agreement with the European Council on the 2011 budget was the European Parliament's first serious effort to use the powers assigned to it.
The European Parliament is ready to come to an agreement as soon as possible so that the EU can begin 2011 with the budget adopted and so that the funding of important areas and projects is not delayed.
There must be a commitment by the Commission to present proposals on new own resources for the EU, and there must be an agreement with the Council on the review of the financial structure.
Furthermore, there must be an agreement between the three institutions on a method for working together which includes participation by Parliament in the process of negotiating the next multiannual financial framework.
The European Parliament must comply with the requirements it has presented.
However, Parliament, which voted in its entirety against the 2011 budget proposed by the Commission, clearly has more important things to do than engage in futile power struggles.
In reality, the budget does not take into account the Union's new powers and does not provide funding for the EU 2020 strategy, which enjoys unanimous agreement.
We cannot devise and approve well-meaning strategies without also providing the financial input for implementing them.
The united action taken by all the parliamentary groups in the European legislative only serves to demonstrate that the budget needs to be reviewed on a much more flexible basis.
I voted for this resolution because it reminds us, in technical terms, of the three requirements on which Parliament's vote on the 2011 budget depends: namely, keeping the option of mobilising the flexibility instrument, which is a necessary budgetary tool for ensuring minimum financing for Community competences and priorities; the European Commission's commitment to make specific proposals on new own resources between now and July 2011; and the strong involvement of Parliament in future debates on the European Union's funding system, specifically on the question of own resources and the drafting of the next financial framework.
This resolution reaffirms the changes made to the Council by the Treaty of Lisbon in order that the Council finally recognise the new legitimacy of Parliament in budgetary matters.
Beyond the interinstitutional battle, we must realise that the issue of European integration and the very future of the Community project is at stake in this debate on the budget, where Parliament once again embodies the Community spirit and respect for the citizens of the Union.
Finally, the Member States, which have ratified this treaty individually, must be fully aware of its requirements and take on the ambitions contained in it.
Before the Commission proposes a new draft budget, the European Parliament wanted to reaffirm the role that it intends to play in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework.
The resolution has been adopted by a very large majority, which is indicative of Parliament's determination only to support the adoption of the 2011 budget if these three conditions are met.
Despite the fact that the European Parliament went a long way in the negotiations by accepting the Council's budget proposal for 2011, offering a solution to large and difficult financing projects such as the ITER fusion research programme, and promising a swift approval of amending budget No 10, which involved Member States receiving back just over EUR 600 million, a minority of Member States, including Sweden, have blocked the continuation of the negotiations.
Parliament's resolution stresses that the negotiations should continue, but also lays down requirements for the future.
However, we do not believe that the overall level of the EU budget needs to be increased.
In order to avoid the risk of a veto by Parliament if it is only permitted to adopt a position on a package between Member States when the negotiations are already complete, we also believe that the European Parliament should be permitted to take part in preparatory negotiations on the EU's next long-term budget after 2013 and in the discussions on the future financing of this long-term budget, without, for that reason, essentially adopting a position on the question of own resources.
Finally, we would like to emphasise that these requirements do not go beyond the competence bestowed on Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon.
I hope that this stalemate will be overcome as swiftly as possible, as the budget has to respect the commitments and responsibilities of the European Union under the Treaty of Lisbon.
As regards the interinstitutional agreement, it is obvious that respect for the commitments made by European institutions, specifically the Council, is conditional on the existence of flexibility regarding the current multiannual financial framework.
The Council needs to take the Treaty of Lisbon on board, both from the point of view of the new areas which come under the jurisdiction of the European Union, as reflected in the budget, and from the point of view of the European Parliament's strengthened powers, not least regarding the budget.
These changes, in fact, strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the Union's institutions.
The debate which has begun on the post-2013 financial perspectives is already flawed for a number of reasons, among them, the inability of the European institutions - Parliament and the Council - to come to an agreement in the negotiations on the 2011 budget; the attempts by several Member States to force a reduction in funds for future budgets; the insistence of others on new own resources for the EU, suggesting the creation of European taxes on top of national taxes, paid by the public rather than the financial sector; insistence on the full implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon; and opposition by rich countries to considerably increasing their contributions to the EU budget.
In any case, although we agree that new responsibilities should mean new resources, we cannot give our support to a resolution that does not advocate distributing EU funds with a view to economic and social cohesion, facing up to the crisis and supporting employment with rights, without strengthening militarism or repression.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the current 2011 budget negotiations because it is essential that Parliament takes up its new and legitimate role in defining the European Union's budget now that the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force.
This resolution will send a strong message to the European Council when it meets on 16 and 17 December 2010.
Despite the fact that the European Parliament went a long way in the negotiations by accepting the Council's budget proposal for 2011, offering a solution to large and difficult financing projects such as the ITER fusion research programme, and promising a swift approval of amending budget No 10, which involved Member States receiving back just over EUR 600 million, a minority of Member States, including Sweden, have blocked the continuation of the negotiations.
Parliament's resolution stresses that the negotiations should continue, but also lays down requirements for the future.
However, I do not believe that the overall level of the EU budget needs to be increased.
In order to avoid the risk of a veto by Parliament if it is only permitted to adopt a position on a package between Member States when the negotiations are already complete, I also believe that the European Parliament should be permitted to take part in preparatory negotiations on the EU's next long-term budget after 2013 and in the discussions on the future financing of this long-term budget, without, for that reason, adopting a position on the question of own resources.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that these requirements do not go beyond the competence bestowed on Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon, and even though I was against the introduction of this treaty, I believe that we now have no other choice than to accept the consequences of its ratification and work according to its provisions.
The European Union's budget forms the framework within which its Member States can act.
in writing. - I voted for the budget resolution but abstained on Amendment 1b, which deals with new own resources.
I certainly believe the EU should be looking for new sources of finance but do not believe this should done by seeking advance commitments from the Council.
If Parliament and the Council fail to reach agreement on the 2011 budget by the end of this year, it may have major consequences for the financing of Union programmes, cause serious delays in setting up the supervisory bodies, and render emergency instruments such as the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the Solidarity Fund inoperable.
What it has asked of the Council is, in fact, merely respect for the powers granted by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Treaty of Lisbon has given Parliament new responsibilities, and these mean increased costs.
Instead of this, an increase of a good 3% is planned.
Some projects have simply been pushed back so that, in the foreseeable future, we then have the prospect of only the most immediate major expenditure.
There would be numerous opportunities to make savings, for example, in connection with the two locations for plenary sittings, or by finally whipping the EU's fight against fraud into shape and fully recovering the funds that have been incorrectly paid out.
Some of these will certainly also be future-oriented, but the implementation of some projects raises doubts as to their rationale or approach.
I therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
Like the vast majority of Members, I voted for the draft budget because I believe Parliament has to be taken into account.
That is not only from a symbolic viewpoint, due to the fact that Parliament represents 500 million Europeans, but above all, from a 'constitutional' viewpoint, inasmuch as the treaty requires Parliament itself to give its assent to the adoption of the future multiannual financial framework (MFF).
Given that the Council's position on the draft budget has limited payment appropriations to an amount that represents an increase of 2.91% over the 2010 budget, and that on 15 November 2010, the Parliament-Council Conciliation Committee failed to agree on a joint text for the 2011 budget, I am voting in favour of the resolution as I agree with the conditions that Parliament is imposing on the Council and the Commission in order to facilitate an agreement on the 2011 budget.
I abstained from voting on the resolution on the 2011 budget and future funding for European policies, although I supported all the amendments aimed at improving the position of Parliament in the discussion and control over budgetary decisions.
This resolution is a clear signal of Parliament's commitment to overcoming the current impasse on the budget for 2011.
in writing. - As to the 2011 budget proper, the Council indicated that the level of payment appropriations should not go beyond an increase of 2.91% compared to the 2010 budget.
Parliament in trialogues on the 2011 budget had taken a step towards being willing to accept this position on payments, after getting assurances concerning extra commitments over and above the ceiling via the flexibility instrument both in Heading 1A (competitiveness) and Heading 4 (external action) so as to be able to cover for reinforced policy priorities in Heading 1A (notably, lifelong learning) and extra needs in Heading 4 (notably Palestine).
This vote is consistent with my attitude and earlier approach on any suggestions of a euro-style tax system.
in writing. - This resolution sends a clear signal to the other institutions that the European Parliament is willing to start serious negotiations in order to resolve the current budget deadlock and to decide upon a budget for 2011 as soon as possible.
I believe that MEPs, as the only directly elected representatives in the EU, should be involved in shaping the next financial perspective in order to achieve the best deal for UK citizens.
I have voted in favour of the resolution on the ongoing negotiations on the 2011 budget because to date, the budget negotiations have unfortunately shown that the Council has evidently not found time over the last 12 months to read and understand the Treaty of Lisbon.
In this context, I welcome the broad determination of Parliament to agree the 2011 budget as quickly as possible before the end of the year.
What is more, we also urgently need the new financial supervisory authorities, as the dramatic situation in Ireland illustrates day-by-day.
The inclusion of the clause on human rights or the implementation of social and environmental standards in trade agreements is a principle that the EU should seek to ensure.
This can come about through strengthened dialogue within these organisations, particularly with regard to the compulsory implementation of these standards in trade agreements and the necessary surveillance mechanisms and incentives, along with strengthened arbitration panels.
Naturally, the report proposes improving cooperation within existing international organisations and the automatic inclusion of clauses on these subjects, but it also introduces new ideas, calling for the creation of a World Environmental Organisation to which cases of environmental dumping could be referred.
This two-pronged approach would enable us to prevent emissions being transferred to third countries.
I support this report.
Distortions of competition and the risks of environmental and social dumping are becoming more and more frequent in the area of international trade.
Therefore, EU bilateral and multilateral agreements should provide for an obligation for all companies, not just those located in the EU, to comply with the aforementioned requirements.
EU trade agreements must provide for transparency and stringent public procurement standards, with a view to combating illicit capital flight.
In order to achieve these objectives, the EU should cooperate actively with international partners in the area of trade - the World Trade Organisation, the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations Organisation.
I voted for this report because it is nonetheless essential to ensure a balance between trade law and fundamental human rights and to step up the dialogue between the main international organisations, particularly between the International Labour Organisation and the World Trade Organisation.
Furthermore, including human rights and social and environmental standards in trade agreements can add value to international trade agreements, allowing greater support for political and social stability, thus establishing a climate which is more conducive to trade.
I agree with the position of the European Parliament that if the European Union complies with binding standards, it must also be able to require the same from its trading partners and particularly from emerging countries, and insist on quality and sustainability, particularly for food products coming into its territory, in order to preserve fair and equitable trade.
I would like to stress that, in order to strengthen human rights and social policy in international trade, we must demand that all future trade agreements provide for a ban on the exploitation of child labour, in particular, in the extraction and processing of natural stone.
Cooperation between international organisations should be stepped up as part of a global agreement on climate, especially at the level of carbon inclusion mechanisms for the EU's emissions trading scheme, while ensuring, however, that existing leakage is stopped.
I also believe that the EU should lead efforts in the use of bilateral free trade so that this incorporates not only provisions on human rights, but also provisions on sustainable development issues.
I realise that the discussion on the inclusion of clauses on human rights and social and environmental standards in international agreements is a complex one, and I am aware that there is currently an imbalance between the rules of international trade and the rest of international law.
I believe that the European Union plays a key role in this quest for a new world governance and, to this end, must encourage consistency in the policies adopted by international institutions.
I believe that the European Union must seek a balance between restrictive and liberal approaches to trade and a compromise between defending its commercial interests and requiring respect for the values that underpin it.
It is therefore important to encourage dialogue and collaborative partnerships with international organisations, particularly the World Trade Organisation and the International Labour Organisation.
I also recall that the Treaty of Lisbon has introduced changes to trade policy which touch upon some of the proposals presented in this report.
I am therefore voting in favour of the bulk of the measures contained in this report.
EU bilateral trade relations with third parties are all the more crucial for human rights and social and environmental standards when there is scant prospect of progress within the WTO framework.
I voted in favour of the report on 'human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements' because trade policy should be consistent with the EU's objective and should contribute to safeguarding its social and environmental policy models.
At economic and diplomatic level, I realise that the EU must not neglect stressing the importance and centrality of this issue at a time of establishing lasting trade channels.
At the same time, however, as is common knowledge, we are not in a position to impose these standards or to make such demands.
The inclusion of the human rights clause and the implementation of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations are complex issues that are dividing the international community.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that trade policy should act as an instrument in the service of the European Union's overall objectives, and that it is therefore important that trade is seen not as an end in itself, but rather as a tool for the promotion of European commercial interests, and as an instrument for fair trade that can bring into general practice the effective inclusion and implementation of social and environmental standards with all EU trade partners.
I voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements because it is vital that the European Union's trade policy be consistent with its political aims.
The text, which has been improved considerably by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, makes it clear that trade can no longer be an end in its own right, but rather that all agreements should now contain certain social and environmental clauses.
If the European Union complies with binding standards, it must also be able to require the same from its trading partners and particularly from emerging countries, and insist on quality and sustainability, particularly for food products coming into its territory, in order to preserve fair and equitable trade.
Searching for a balance between economic and social interests is not only very important, but also very difficult.
International cooperation in this area is extremely important, and the European Parliament should support it to the greatest extent possible.
I voted in favour of the report, as human rights, social standards and environmental standards should apply in all countries, not just in Europe.
I voted in favour of this resolution as it explicitly includes the need for the EU to make an effective contribution to the sustainable development of the world, solidarity between peoples, fair trade and the eradication of poverty.
Another reason why I voted in favour of this resolution is the firm way in which it expresses the need to create a 'genuine World Environmental Organisation', and its unequivocal defence of human rights, sustainable development and respect for the environment, prioritising them above the current international trade models.
However, particularly in the area of human rights, as well as social and environmental standards, the EU repeatedly hits a brick wall when other countries with which it has concluded bilateral trade agreements have different opinions in this regard.
Human rights and the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations are quite complex and highly problematic issues.
Despite the evident imbalance today between the rules of international trade and the other standards of international law, I believe it is fundamentally important to vote in favour of Mrs Saïfi's report so that new ways of thinking can be developed to achieve genuine coordination between international organisations.
The European Union has a key role in this quest for a new world governance, and to this end I feel it must encourage consistency in the policies adopted by international institutions.
I voted in favour of the report on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements as I agree with the inclusion of clauses relating to human rights or to the implementation of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations.
There is real tension between the countries in the North, which are denouncing the social and environmental dumping practised by emerging countries, and the countries in the South, which suspect the North of wanting to impede their economic development and, through the implementation of these standards, to exercise a form of disguised protectionism.
However, this conflict of interests must not prevent the EU from adopting a positive, yet also legally binding approach in its negotiations, with the inclusion of provisions on sustainable development, particularly in bilateral agreements.
The European Union, through its policies and particularly its trade policy, must uphold its commercial interests while complying with and ensuring that others comply with its standards and values.
It is this thought which should help the various EU institutions launch and conduct a new ambitious trade policy based on firmness and dialogue.
If the European Union complies with binding standards, it must also be able to require the same from its trading partners, particularly from emerging countries, and insist on quality and sustainability, particularly for food products coming into its territory, in order to preserve fair and equitable trade.
In this sense, the European single market's tough rules on health, safety, the environment and protection of workers and consumers are a specific European model which must serve as an inspiration at international level and in multilateral fora and which must be reflected in the current negotiations on bilateral trade agreements.
I voted in favour as I believe that as the European Union plays a crucial role in the quest for a new world economic governance, it must encourage consistency in the policies implemented by the various international institutions.
Today, there is a growing imbalance between the specific standards for international trade and the other rules of international law.
The inclusion of the human rights clause, along with the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations, are complex problems that divide the international community.
All of this explains why it is extremely difficult to conduct a calm discussion within multilateral institutions on these standards, especially within the World Trade Organisation, as it is coinciding with the increasingly frequent appearance of the social clause in bilateral trade agreements.
The same argument should apply to those countries that produce by methods that are very different from those found in Europe, such as the use of child labour, or countries that do not grant workers their rights.
I voted for the adoption of the resolution on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements.
The European Union is based on principles that include respect for human rights.
The Treaty of Lisbon confirms that the external activities of the European Union, of which foreign trade is an integral part, should be carried out according to the same principles as those which underlie the creation of the EU.
This is why I fully support the practice of including legally binding clauses regarding human rights in the European Union's international agreements.
In accordance with point 15 of the resolution, I believe it is crucial that all free trade agreements contain negotiated social and environmental standards, including: a list of minimum standards that all the EU's trade partners should observe, as well as a list of additional conventions that should be implemented gradually and flexibly, taking into account the economic situation and the social and environmental issues of a given partner.
In 2009, the European Ombudsman received 3 098 complaints, 727 of which fell under his competences.
In voting for this resolution, I am associating myself with the general approval expressed by the European Parliament for this vital link in the chain of democracy.
I voted for this resolution because I welcome the results of activities in 2009.
This bears witness to the effective cooperation which exists between the Ombudsman and the institutions and bodies of the Union.
Transparency, access to information and respect for the right to good administration are vital preconditions for maintaining citizens' confidence in the institutions' ability to assert their rights.
The European institutions and bodies must provide citizens with the information they require.
I welcome the collaboration between the European Ombudsman and ombudsmen and similar bodies at national, regional and local levels in the Member States.
The role of the European administration is vast and complex.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe it is vital to ensure public confidence in the European institutions through efficient administration, with transparent procedures and easy access to infrastructure.
The work of the Ombudsman is essential and contributes to greater transparency, bringing the EU closer to the public, while strengthening public confidence in the ability of the institutions to enforce their rights.
Although, in 2009, there was a small reduction in the number of complaints (9%) in comparison with 2008, of the 335 cases opened, approximately 318 were concluded and closed.
The fact that 56% of cases were closed having reached an amicable agreement or been solved is fairly positive.
These results demonstrate that there is constructive cooperation between the Ombudsman and the EU's institutions and bodies, which, for the most part, see these complaints as a perfect opportunity to remedy any mistakes made and cooperate with the Ombudsman on behalf of members of the public.
I would like to emphasise the importance of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, in which the right to good administration was inscribed among the fundamental rights inherent to EU citizenship.
The report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2009 is of great interest, since it allows us to assess whether and to what extent the relationship between the EU institutions and the people is transparent, quick and effective.
There are many topics, in fact, on which Parliament and the Commission express their views without receiving any feedback from the public apart from the complaints made to the Ombudsman.
While I approve the report, however, I think the European Ombudsman himself and the work he does should be more widely publicised, especially in the Member States where he is not immediately recognisable.
In 2009, the Ombudsman recorded a total of 3 098 complaints, as opposed to 3 406 in 2008, which represents a drop of 9%.
The complaints related to: the Commission (56%), the administration of Parliament (11%), the European Personnel Selection Office (9%), the Council (4%) and the European Court of Justice (3%).
The main complaint was about poor administration and the lack of transparency, including refusal to disclose information, which is a key factor in ensuring public safety and confidence in the EU.
This therefore demonstrated the need to continue working towards better administration and allowing greater transparency in the institutions, which can be achieved by a joint effort from the Ombudsman and the institutions, particularly through the constant exchange of good practice.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which reviews and supports the Ombudsman's activities in 2009.
The Ombudsman provides an important link with the citizens and his work helps build trust in the EU institutions and makes them more accessible.
Recently, the Ombudsman has continued his efforts to improve the quality of information provided to citizens and potential complainants concerning their rights, especially through the European Network of Ombudsmen.
The Ombudsman must continue to strive to make certain that the EU institutions and bodies adopt a citizen-centred approach in all their activities, and he must therefore seek every opportunity to achieve friendly solutions to complaints and launch more inquiries on his own initiative in order to identify problems and encourage best practice.
The role of the Ombudsman is very important as it helps to bring the public closer to the European institutions.
The Ombudsman registered a total of 3 098 complaints in 2009, compared to 3 406 in 2008, which represents a reduction of 9% on 2008, with 335 inquiries opened on the basis of complaints and 230 complaints declared inadmissible.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I am in agreement with the need to achieve greater transparency regarding the Commission's activities and to do the work necessary in order to bring the EU's institutions closer to the European people.
I have given my support to the report presented by the Ombudsman because it reflects the work that he does in condemning maladministration, and the positive work that he is doing towards greater transparency through his response to complaints from EU citizens regarding maladministration on the part of the institutions and European bodies.
I also think it is very positive that this resolution encourages the Ombudsman to initiate his own investigations in order to resolve systemic problems in the institutions.
Protection of and respect for human rights is a key element of the European Union, and so the European Ombudsman's important role in this context cannot be overlooked.
This important figure at European level strives to make certain that the institutions adopt a citizen-centred approach in all their activities, by seeking every opportunity to achieve friendly solutions to complaints and by launching new inquiries in order to identify problems and encourage best practice.
The annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2009 show that he has been extremely active.
The new legal framework which reflects the changes to the Ombudsman's status and the entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which adds the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the European Council's activities to the Ombudsman's mandate, have not been detrimental to the pace of work.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the annual report for 2009 and presents guidelines for the future.
Of these, I would like to highlight the following: the call for the Ombudsman to enforce the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has become legally binding with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon; the call for the Commission to draft a European administrative law common to all the bodies, institutions and agencies of the Union; and the call for the Ombudsman to monitor the new procedure concerning the selection of staff for the European Institutions by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
I voted in favour of this report as it highlights the crucial role of the Ombudsman in ensuring respect for the rights of EU citizens and in promoting a culture of public service within the institutions, based on best practice in good administration.
The report provides an overview of the Ombudsman's activities during the past year.
The Commission receives a particularly high number of complaints from citizens concerning maladministration.
The Ombudsman should keep the European Parliament informed about inquiries which he is conducting and the results thereof.
The Commission should adopt a more open and proactive attitude towards information relating to infringement proceedings.
The building of social capital, in the sense intended by Putnam, in fact goes beyond the licitness of behaviours to look at their good faith, consistency and morality.
The special report by the European Ombudsman follows the Commission's refusal to disclose to a non-governmental organisation for environmental protection three letters, from a set of 18, sent by Porsche AG to Commissioner Verheugen, concerning the exchange of information between the Commission and automobile manufacturers on a possible approach to carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles.
Article 228 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union empowers the Ombudsman to receive complaints from any citizen of the Union concerning instances of maladministration in the activities of the Union's institutions or bodies.
These complaints submitted by EU citizens constitute an important source of information on possible infringements of EU law.
According to Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, 'every person has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the Union'.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot delay or obstruct the Ombudsman's inquiries in cases involving issues of access to documents, and should respond to the Ombudsman without delay, so as to comply with its duty of sincere cooperation, as envisaged in the treaty.
in writing. - The Ombudsman offers an important service to Irish citizens.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
I take the view that the Commission's uncooperative attitude in this and other cases risks eroding citizens' trust in the Commission and undermining the ability of the European Ombudsman and the European Parliament to adequately and effectively supervise the Commission, and that as such, it runs counter to the very principle of the rule of law upon which the European Union is founded.
The role of the European Ombudsman is clearly defined as being to investigate complaints against the EU institutions and bodies.
Such powers mean greater transparency in the relations between the European institutions and the citizens, companies, associations and other bodies with a registered office in the EU.
This behaviour means that the Commission breached its obligation to cooperate with the Ombudsman sincerely and in good faith during his inquiry, and was detrimental not only to interinstitutional dialogue, but also to the EU's public image.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I agree with its criticism of the Commission for having prioritised the interests of the multinational company Porsche over the public's right to access Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
If everything is regulated in the EU, for example, the permissible payment deadlines for companies, it seems strange that the Commission, on the other hand, when consulting with a third party, is not in a position to set a deadline for this third party that enables it to meet its own deadlines.
It is nothing short of regrettable when a special report by the Ombudsman is required in order to make public something as simple as access to documents to which EU citizens have a right.
Perhaps I might expand on this by saying that our citizens also have a right to know how the European Union spends its taxes and where resources are wasted.
Therefore, I can only vote in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of the special report by the European Ombudsman to Parliament following his draft recommendation to the European Commission in complaint 676/2008/RT, which relates to the Commission's excessive delay in providing a response to the Ombudsman's services.
I agree with the Ombudsman's concerns and criticisms, because excessive delays in responding to the Ombudsman, no matter what the case may be, constitutes a violation of the duty of sincere cooperation, as envisaged in the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is crucial that there is not a repeat of situations like this.
Today, we voted in plenary on the special report by the European Ombudsman following his draft recommendation to the European Commission on complaint 676/2008/RT.
In March 2007, a non-governmental organisation acting in the field of environmental protection asked for access to certain documents under Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
The European Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, endorses the European Ombudsman's critical remarks and his recommendation to the Commission in relation to complaint 676/2008/RT, and recognises that the excessive delays in responding to the Ombudsman in this case constitute a breach of the Commission's duty of sincere cooperation as envisaged in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Furthermore, the Committee on Petitions is of the view that the Commission's uncooperative attitude in this and other cases of access to documents risks undermining citizens' trust in the Commission and eroding the ability of the European Ombudsman and the European Parliament to adequately and effectively supervise the Commission.
The small number of special reports that the European Ombudsman has had to present to Parliament (17 since 1995) is proof of the cooperation that exists between the EU institutions in the vast majority of cases.
As a political body, Parliament has the power to deal with special reports by the European Ombudsman, both in terms of procedure and in terms of focus and actions.
The Treaty on European Union lays down Member States' responsibilities in connection with the application of EU law, while the Commission, as guardian of the treaties, is granted competence and responsibility for ensuring that the law is applied correctly.
I agree with the opinion expressed in the resolution that this initiative is an appropriate response to the need for cooperation between all institutions of the European Union in the interests of a well functioning, citizen-focused system.
I feel that as an institution representing the citizens of the EU, the European Parliament must be given access to this database to enable it to scrutinise the Commission's discharge of its role as guardian of the treaties.
The Commission only makes reference to formal proceedings being opened against Member States that have not transposed EU law into their national legal systems.
Citizens and Parliament should therefore be informed when the Commission initiates infringement proceedings in connection with the incorrect or poor transposition of EU law, with details of those infringements also being supplied.
Furthermore, the Treaty of Lisbon provides for the possibility for citizens to set the legislative agenda and to help ensure the correct application of, and compliance with, European Union law and the transparency and reliability of the related procedures.
It is regrettable that several Member States are underestimating the importance of the proper and timely implementation of EU legislation.
In 2008, 55% of the necessary transpositions were delayed, in many cases by two years or more.
Although the facts indicate an improvement of 15% this year, we have to bear in mind that there was also a 40% reduction in the number of transpositions to be carried out.
It is unacceptable that in May 2009, there were 22 directives with deadlines that had expired more than two years previously, and for which the transposition had still not been completed by one to five Member States.
It is vital to strengthen cooperation between the EU institutions and national authorities, as well as between the Member States' administrations, in order to ensure better, more effective and more timely implementation of EU legislation, along with detecting any problems with implementation at an early stage.
It is therefore vital that there is closer and permanent cooperation between the EU institutions and national authorities, as well as between the Member States' administrations, in order to ensure the correct, effective and timely implementation of EU legislation.
To this end, it is crucial that Parliament and the national parliaments make use of the new framework for cooperation established by the Treaty of Lisbon and carry out annual reviews of the implementation process in a selected area of the single market.
It focuses its analysis on the report from the Commission entitled 'EU Pilot Evaluation Report', in which the Commission proposes an evaluation of the performance of the 'EU Pilot' project after its 22 months of operation.
The Committee also suggests calling on the Commission to propose a 'procedural code' on the infringement procedure under the new legal basis of Article 298 TFEU, in order to enforce citizens' rights and transparency.
The annual reports on monitoring the application of European Union law are essential for assessing how EU law is being implemented by the Member States.
In 2008, 55% of the necessary transpositions were delayed, in many cases by two years or more.
Although the facts indicate an improvement of 15% this year, we have to bear in mind that there was also a 40% reduction in the number of transpositions to be carried out.
We can therefore conclude that there is still a long way to go before the standards set out in EU law are properly and promptly transposed by the Member States.
For this reason, I have abstained from voting.
I voted today in favour of the report on monitoring the application of European Union law.
The report focuses on the efficacy of the EU Pilot project to foster cooperation between the Commission and the Member States with a view to guaranteeing the proper application of the treaties.
The report highlights the need to adopt a procedural code in the form of a regulation designed to improve transparency and the defence of citizens' rights, which sets out the basic points of infringement proceedings, such as notification, deadlines, the right to a hearing and need for statements of reasons.
I must, however, stress that, besides causing a lack of confidence in the European institutions, the delays in the proper application and transposition of EU law affect all of us Europeans and have the knock-on effects of not allowing us to enjoy the rights created by legislation, creating legal uncertainly and preventing the public from fully benefiting from the internal market.
I therefore support the desire to ensure that the Commission continues to produce detailed data on all types of infringement and that all these data are made freely available to Parliament, so as to enable it to perform its role of scrutiny of the Commission's discharge of its duties as guardian of the treaties.
I would also like to point out that, as is mentioned in the report, national courts play a vital role in applying European Union law.
It is therefore necessary to support the EU's efforts to enhance and coordinate judicial training for national judges and legal professionals in general.
This report evaluates the Commission's monitoring of the application of European Union law in 2008.
It focuses its analysis on the 'EU Pilot Evaluation Report', in which the Commission proposes conducting an assessment of the achievements of the EU Pilot project 22 months after its implementation.
The Committee raises a series of important questions regarding the functioning of the EU Pilot project and the role of citizens in guaranteeing respect for EU law on the ground, and asks the Commission to provide relevant information so that an analysis can be conducted of the added value of EU Pilot in relation to current infringement procedures.
The Committee also suggests calling on the Commission to propose a 'procedural code' for the infringement procedure based on the new legal basis provided by Article 298 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to strengthen citizens rights and transparency.
This unique system allows public service broadcasters and commercial operators to function in a balanced and mutually complementary relationship.
Broadcast media are among the most important sources of information available to citizens in EU Member States and, as such, are an important factor in shaping people's values and opinions.
Based on a true balance between public service and commercial broadcasters, it ensures a diverse range of freely accessible programming and contributes to media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition and freedom of expression.
I feel that the Member States should better address the digital divide and ensure that, with digitisation, all individuals in all regions have equal access to public service broadcasting.
A balanced European system plays a fundamental role in promoting democracy, social cohesion and integration and freedom of expression, with an emphasis on preserving and promoting media pluralism, media literacy, cultural and linguistic diversity and compliance with European standards relating to press freedom.
In a democratic European society, it is vital that citizens have access to information and are able to participate in public debate.
The existence of an independent and competitive audiovisual and written press sector is fundamental.
In the current situation facing the EU audiovisual sector, it is in the public interest to safeguard what has been described as the 'dual system' and ensure that there is a genuine balance between public service and private-sector broadcasters.
That is the only way we can ensure that there is a sufficiently diverse range of programming, and thus contribute to media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competitiveness within the media and freedom of expression.
Having a strong, viable public broadcasting system that is free from political pressure or loss of editorial independence, and which benefits from sufficient funding, is vital.
The EU's role is to try to bring the different stakeholders in the media sector together with the aim of maintaining a healthy, viable industry.
I believe that the implementation of the mechanism for monitoring media pluralism can play a vital role in this.
On the other hand, a purely commercial television system might not have any interest in pursuing objectives of general interest or broadcasting educational programmes, which are not always profitable in terms of audience figures, but which are, by their very nature, necessary.
The dual system therefore needs to be kept, provided there are rules to allow free, healthy competition, and provided there are checks to prevent any collusion between the public and private broadcasting companies, while respecting editorial decisions but bearing in mind the social function that broadcasting services must perform.
At the same time, I think that implementation of new technologies will help produce good quality programmes aimed at every audience group.
The resolution adopted on 25 November by a large majority calls on Member States to put an end to political interference in public broadcast content and recalls that compliance with European standards on the freedom of expression, on media pluralism and independence, and on funding for public service media, should be a priority for all Member States.
Parliament proposes that the European Audiovisual Observatory should assess how Member States have applied these standards and demands that the Member States be held accountable if they fail to 'live up to' their commitments.
Parliament has also taken this vote as an opportunity to highlight the need for appropriate and stable funding in order for public service media to remain independent, and for transparent ownership of private broadcasters.
I voted in favour of this report as it advocates the need for society's public and private sector media to carry out their respective functions free of political and economic pressure.
The dual European system could play a key role in promoting democracy and freedom of expression, and preserving and promoting media pluralism, as well as cultural and linguistic diversity.
The importance of ensuring the pluralism of broadcast media is due to the pivotal role that such media play in our society in terms of information and pluralism, as well as the promotion of rights, freedoms and guarantees, which clearly contribute to a more informed and participatory society.
It is therefore of paramount importance to ensure that these services have financial and editorial autonomy, and that they are prevented from becoming politicised or making concessions to economic interests.
In view of this, it is vital to give precedence to a dual EU system that ensures independence at all levels and which safeguards freedom of expression in both public and private sector broadcasting services, given that the latter are not immune to political interference.
This has contributed to media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition (in terms of content quality and diversity) within the media, and freedom of expression.
I would like to highlight the need for the Member States to address the digital divide between urban and rural zones and to ensure that, with digitisation, all individuals in all regions have equal access to public service broadcasting, along with offering attractive, quality content to appeal to young people who access the media.
In addition, we have endeavoured to make as clear as possible our wish not only for public stations with high quality, attractive content, but also for the integration of new platforms, taking into account the latest technologies.
This is of importance to the UK because of the unique method of funding of the BBC and we welcome this confirmation that the European Parliament will not try to intrude into the funding methods used in the UK to fund the BBC.
There were two issues that the UK delegation could not support in this report: the call for search engines and Internet service providers to provide funding for the financing of content creation on the Internet and the call for a European Audiovisual Observatory to gather data on national public sector broadcasters.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution, which reaffirms Parliament's commitment to the dual broadcasting system, in which private and public service media play their respective roles, independent of political and economic pressure, and calls for access to broadcasting of the highest level to be ensured irrespective of consumers' and users' ability to pay.
It is rare in this Chamber to see a public service being defended.
Only public service broadcasting can be controlled by the sovereign population and can allow everyone access to pluralistic information of a high quality, something which is not true in France today, nor in several countries which are dominated by an oligarchy.
Broadcasting represents the main source of information for citizens.
Some public service broadcasters have rather successfully changed their programmes as a result of competition from private broadcasters.
I have therefore abstained from the vote.
In some countries, public service broadcasters face ever-increasing political pressure and broadcaster funding is becoming dependent on the goodwill of the political party that has come to power.
Europe has now entered the digital age, and the institutions must guarantee balance in the dual system that has been established between private sector and public service broadcasters.
Since this topic is the responsibility of the national authorities of the individual Member States, the EU hopes that greater incentives will be given to public service broadcasters with the aim of relaunching a service that, in many countries, suffers under the weight of politics and information control, and of preventing imbalance with private sector competition that is, at times, unfair.
Pluralism in the media can only be safeguarded by ensuring that private and public media can coexist without obstruction or discrimination.
However, in order to achieve this objective, two preconditions need to be met.
The EU can and must demonstrate that it supports these parameters, both via funding, such as from the Investment Fund for the digitisation of the media, and by coordinating exchanges of best practices in the procedure to digitise radio and televisions between the Member States.
I voted in favour of the resolution on public service broadcasting in the digital era: the future of the dual system, as I believe that the role of public service television in a multimedia society has to take account of the concentration and pluralism of the media in the European Union, media literacy in a digital world, diversity of media content and the guarantee of independence for public service broadcasting in the information society.
In fact, the dual broadcasting system, in which private and public service media play their respective roles independent of political and economic pressure, is vital for ensuring access to information of the highest quality and for promoting democracy itself.
I believe it is crucial for the EU to bring together the different players and stakeholders in the media sector with the aim of moving towards the creation of a healthy and economically viable industry.
It influences people's values and opinions and continues to be the main source of information for the majority of EU citizens.
It also contributes to pluralism in the media, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition (in terms of quality and diversity of content) and freedom of expression.
Public service broadcasting needs particular attention, given the concentration of media ownership and commercial competition, if it is to contribute, without political interference, to maintaining a public space which provides high quality programmes and objective information.
We ask the Member States to provide sufficient resources to support the digitisation of public service broadcasting and, above all, to combat a dangerous digital divide.
Whether they are in rural or in urban areas, and whether they are poor or well-off, everyone must have equal and high quality access to public service broadcasting.
Finally, in view of the inequalities of revenue between giants such as Google and the sites they list, we must think about search engines making more of a contribution to financing content creation.
United Nations Security Council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is not the first resolution on these issues that the Council has adopted in its time.
Nevertheless, it should be viewed as a seminal moment for gender mainstreaming, as women are now taken into account in security and peacekeeping operations.
I voted for this resolution because great attention must be paid to women's security when deploying peacekeeping missions and during armed conflicts.
I would like to stress that there should be an ongoing review of the EU's human rights policy when it comes to the elaboration of a comprehensive human rights country strategy and to the evaluation of the EU guidelines on violence against women and girls and those EU guidelines concerning children and armed conflict, as well as combating all forms of discrimination against them.
It should be noted that when part of a widespread and systematic practice, rape and sexual slavery are recognised under the Geneva Convention as crimes against humanity and war crimes.
Furthermore, rape is also now recognised as an element of the crime of genocide when committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a targeted group.
Women, peace and security are areas which should be given the utmost attention.
The 10th anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325 is an opportunity to make progress in these areas, as are all the ongoing reviews of EU policies, particularly on human rights and combating violence against women, the use of children in armed conflicts and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
In addition, another aspect that I see as relevant in this report is the fact that it calls for the promotion of women's participation in reconciliation processes, peace building and conflict prevention, which is another reason for my vote in favour of its adoption.
It is vital that everything possible is done in order to limit the consequences resulting from such a state of affairs in these regions.
I voted against the joint motion on the 10th anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325 on women in peace and security because it has a distorted view of gender equality.
On the contrary, this particular resolution calls for more women to be employed in police and military missions and for the EU to deploy more women officers and soldiers in CSDP missions.
Another reason why I voted against the resolution was because the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left deleting these calls and asking for more women to be involved in EUPOL and EUSEC and for a stronger female presence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo were rejected.
I hope that the EU makes the most of this occasion to send a strong political signal and strengthen efforts towards its implementation, whether through political guidelines or through an increase in financial resources.
I also hope that the ongoing review of EU human rights policy will lead to the elaboration of a consistent strategy in terms of human rights, as well as an assessment of EU guidelines on violence against women and girls and on the situation of children in armed conflict, with the aim of combating all forms of violence and discrimination.
I believe that the establishment of the European External Action Service will contribute to better implementation of these resolutions, while it should also highlight the role of the EU in this field.
I would like to congratulate the 10 Member States, including Portugal, which have already adopted a national action plan to implement this resolution, and I hope that the remaining Member States will follow this example as soon as possible.
However, we now need to take stock of the results achieved and carry on in the same direction.
In particular, the time has come to go a step further and recognise that women suffer different traumas and also experience certain situations and suffer certain constraints rather more intensely than men do on average.
The thousands of women falling victim to sexual abuse and violence are also being condemned to bear in the future the social stigma and burden of terrible diseases, such as HIV.
The European Union must step up its actions to combat these serious human rights violations so that UN resolutions mean more than just a piece of paper.
However, unfortunately, the fact is that everywhere in the world where there is armed conflict and threats to peace, women and children are often the first and most numerous, albeit silent, victims.
Women face countless threats, whether from the practice of barbarous customs that violate their rights in the context of war and conflict, or in the context of poverty and social exclusion.
We voted against this resolution as we believe that having a gender perspective in civilian and military missions is not enough.
The problem of discrimination against women will not be solved or wars made more just by involving more women in military missions for intervention in wars and occupations such as in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Reality shows us that this is not the case.
We believe that military interventions do not help to protect the rights of women, but rather increase violations of these rights.
Only the prevention of conflicts and the implementation of civilian measures in conflict situations are capable of fulfilling the promise made in UN Security Council resolution 1325.
With today's vote on the joint motion for a resolution on the 10th anniversary of UN Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security, we wish to give a tangible sign of our commitment as MEPs but, above all, as European citizens.
This serious problem deserves all of our attention.
This is why, as co-president of the JPA, I personally wanted her to be at the centre of our debates during the plenary session of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly that takes place in Kinshasa on 2 December.
Studies reveal that women in crisis regions where there are military conflicts are often raped and/or subjected to sexual slavery.
After all - and the Western nations also have a responsibility here - sexual exploitation is unjustifiable and criminal behaviour at any time.
The issue of women, peace and security should become an integral part of the planning and programming of the external financial instruments for democracy and human rights, cooperation and development between peoples.
It is 10 years since the adoption of UN Security Council (UNSC) resolutions 1325 (2000) and 1820 (2008) on women, peace and security, and UNSC resolution 1888 (2009) on sexual violence against women and children in situations of armed conflict.
These resolutions emphasise the responsibility of all states to end impunity and prosecute those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes, including those involving acts of sexual violence and other crimes against women and girls.
Ten years have passed since the adoption of the aforementioned resolutions and, as outlined in the resolution that I voted for, there is still a long way to go.
The International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, which was held on 25 November, the same day as the vote on this resolution, is not just another day, but a wake-up call about a situation that is still happening.
UN Security Council resolution 1325, adopted on 31 October 2000, stipulates that, through the course of history, women have not been involved in the process of establishing peace and stability in any nation and calls for the equal involvement of women at every level, from conflict prevention to post-conflict reconstruction and the maintenance of peace and security.
The 10th anniversary of the resolution's adoption should mark the start of a new agenda which will be introduced and cannot be implemented without political support at the highest level and the necessary resources.
The EU must actively promote the appointment of as many women as possible in management positions to coordinate and ensure consistency in the EU's policies and actions and to monitor the fulfilment of its commitments.
The EU must appoint at least five women to management positions in the European External Action Service and comply with the gender balance in terms of specialists employed.
However, the ECR has consistently been against setting quotas for women within national, regional and international institutions, as well as the establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS).
I am very pleased about the adoption of this resolution on the 10th anniversary of UN resolution no 1325 on women, peace and security which, moreover, takes place on the symbolic date of 25 November, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
It is essential for all parties present to take the specific needs of women into account, and it is only through an increased presence of women on the ground that we will manage to improve the situation.
I voted in favour of this resolution because bee mortality is increasing and the number of beekeepers is decreasing.
This is a problem for agriculture and biodiversity, as 76% of food production and 84% of plant species are dependent on pollination by bees.
I would like to advocate more research in order to help ensure the implementation of better solutions and support for measures to enhance biodiversity and mitigate the effects of climate instability.
The life of a worker bee is very short and very sensitive to changes in the environment.
This has meant that the production of honey has also been affected, not only by the increasingly uncertain length and stability of the seasons, but also by increasing damage from outside sources, such as pesticide use and mites, amongst other things.
The beekeeping sector, which is an important source of employment and income in rural areas, is also at risk due to the recent increase in bee mortality and bee diseases.
I voted for this resolution in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission to fund specific studies to improve the knowledge and understanding of factors that affect bee health.
Bees play an important role in the ecological balance, and their demise has serious effects on the food chain.
I also believe it is worth encouraging this activity through collateral measures, and that any scientific contribution in that respect should be welcomed.
There is severe volatility of prices in the European honey market, because 40% of it currently depends on imports, putting beekeepers across the EU, including the Portuguese, at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis honey from third countries.
According to official statistics, there are 17 291 beekeepers in Portugal, with 38 203 apiaries and 562 557 colonies.
Production in 2009 amounted to 6 654 tonnes of honey and 235 tonnes of wax, which represents 1.9% of the honey produced in the EU, at 351 000 tonnes.
The decline in the number of colonies is therefore regrettable, and we need scientific data to enable us to understand the mechanisms that help the spread of this species and develop ways of ensuring its preservation.
I believe that it is vital to focus on European honey, which is gradually being replaced by other varieties of poorer quality that do not fulfil the criteria for production in the EU.
As indicated in the motion for a resolution, it is important to provide incentives for research against bee diseases and to support European producers in the competition they must face against third countries, following the opening-up of the EU market to imported honey.
I will therefore vote in favour of this motion.
I agreed with this report because the beekeeping sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value.
After all, 84% of the plant species and 76% of food production in Europe are dependent on pollination by bees, the economic importance of which is much greater than the value of the honey produced.
Forty percent of the European honey market depends on imports and the previous opening up of the EU market for honey from third countries has placed beekeepers across the EU at a competitive disadvantage.
It is important to follow a comprehensive and sustainable approach including such aspects as rural development, climate change and biodiversity, especially by supporting measures to maintain and expand flower pastures.
It is also important to support the European apiculture sector in an even wider and coherent manner by using additional instruments in the future CAP, including measures to enhance biodiversity, mitigate the effects of climate change, preserve the heritage of national traditions and cultures which provide employment for many European families, and to safeguard and improve the quality and effective functioning of the market for apiculture products.
This is particularly the case for the agricultural sector, because it is extremely dependent on the useful work of bees.
It is for this reason that I welcome the fact that Parliament has today agreed to support the beekeeping sector in the future.
The continuing bee mortality in many regions is even more disturbing and measures need to be taken to tackle this.
I therefore support the resolution, which calls on the Commission to include bee diseases within the scope of European veterinary policy and to draw up an action plan to tackle bee mortality.
Forty percent of the European honey market depends on imports, partly as a result of the opening up of the EU market to honey from third countries, and prices are close to the limits of profitability.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on beekeeping because it is important to guarantee attention for a sector that protects biodiversity and produces a complete food such as honey.
With this role in mind, provision has been made to increase annual aid to the sector in Europe from EUR 26 million for 2008-2010 to EUR 32 million for 2011-2013.
On the other hand, however, it is important to guarantee fair transparency in aid distribution and guarantee more resources to States that actually need them.
I voted in favour of implementing the data survey system by 2012.
I considered this extremely important for the purposes of guaranteeing fairness in relation to public expenditure and protection for those who actually practise beekeeping activities.
in writing. - In 2010, the European Year of Biodiversity, the beekeeping sector throughout the world is gravely threatened, registering losses 100 to 1 000 times worse than normal.
This sector plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value, and beekeeping is a valuable example of a 'green occupation' (improving and preserving biodiversity and the ecological balance and conserving plant life) and a model of sustainable production in a rural environment.
I therefore welcome this resolution that makes proposals to improve the situation of the beekeeping sector.
Parliament should therefore call on the European Union to increase its support for the beekeeping sector, seeing that the common agricultural policy is to be renewed.
Strong, specific action is needed to address this problem and to ward off its adverse effects on both the agricultural and trade sectors of our economy.
The action plan called for in the resolution to address bee mortality is just the first in a series of measures that must be adopted.
The EU is highly dependent on imports in the apiculture sector, with 40% of the honey that we consume being imported.
Given the importance of the beekeeping sector, which plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value, and the fact that this activity is a valuable example of a 'green occupation', improving and preserving biodiversity and the ecological balance and conserving plant life, and a model of sustainable production in a rural environment, it is in everyone's interest to support it in order to ensure its sustainable growth and to make us less dependent on third countries.
My support for the resolution on the situation in the beekeeping sector is due to my concern for the serious decline in the number of bees, which are essential and irreplaceable due to their important pollinating role, which, along with other pollinating insects, affects 84% of plant species.
I therefore believe that helping to improve the sector's situation is an obligation, given that, as the resolution states, it 'plays a strategic role in society, providing a public service of environmental value'.
I am also pleased that the resolution asks the Commission for it to be compulsory for European and national authorities to consult beekeepers during the development of programmes relating to beekeeping and related legislation, as I believe that it is a step forward in improving public participation, and a democratic step forward.
Factors such as the use of plant protection products, unsustainable farming techniques, climate change, pathogens and parasites and a lack of food and foraging as a result of the increase in monocultures have altogether resulted in a significant decline in the number of honey bees.
In 2010, the beekeeping sector suffered massive losses and bee stocks declined considerably.
This has a negative impact on the whole environment and on agriculture, as bees are important pollinators.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report, which takes measures to tackle the massive bee mortality.
I welcome the resolution adopted by a large majority in the plenary session in Strasbourg on 25 November, including important contributions from Azorean beekeepers which were communicated directly in a consultation that I carried out.
Nevertheless, the final text of the resolution falls short of my initial expectations, as some of the crucial aspects for producers, such as the issue of quality standards and labelling for imported honey, should have been more thorough.
It is probable that this did not happen due to a lack of awareness of some of the key problems faced by the sector.
This led, for example, to local labelling not being included in the final text of the resolution.
Yet this resolution does tackle important issues for both Azorean and national beekeeping in general, following work carried out in collaboration with the sector, on issues such as honey imported from third countries, which has serious quality problems and now has inadequate labelling; the need to continue to ensure diversified agriculture in order to guarantee pollination; and, lastly, the importance of joint quality standards and research within the EU.
The consequences associated with a reduction in the number of bees in the world are relatively unknown by the general public, even though bees play a fundamental role in the sustainability of our food chain.
We cannot accept Chinese honey which is of lower quality and which does not meet our rigorous production criteria as an inevitability, as the only alternative to the shortage of honey that is slowly taking hold in Europe.
The problems of this important sector, which continues to be undervalued, have a global dimension.
Bees are of crucial economic and environmental importance.
We therefore need new subsidy mechanisms in the next financial perspective after 2013 which will allow a greater amount of scientific research to be conducted into the reasons for the decline in bee numbers and which will also allow relevant steps to be taken to reverse this negative trend.
The Azores have set more ambitious specific targets than the EU, with results that are already recognised at a European level, particularly with regard to geothermal energy, through an ambitious energy policy of partnerships between the region and the best national and international research centres.
The aim of the new energy strategy for Europe is to implement the Treaty of Lisbon with regard to a single energy market, supply security, energy efficiency, reducing dependency on imports and increasing internal energy production.
We require a long-term vision for our energy policy which will ensure that this market operates properly, provides support to state-of-the-art integrated networks, better utilises the Union's energy efficiency potential, promotes research and development, as well as innovation in this area, and which puts benefits for consumers at the heart of European energy policy.
Consequently, I voted for this report, which marks a first step towards a comprehensive EU energy policy as part of the EU 2020 strategy.
Although Europe leads the field in alternative energy generation, we are still overly dependent on fossil fuels, especially oil.
The inclusion in the Treaty of Lisbon of a specific chapter on energy now means that there is a firm legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, the interconnection of networks and solidarity.
Within the next decade, major investments will be needed in the internal energy sector, notably in new power plants, interconnections and grids, given that these investments will shape the energy mix for an even longer period, contributing to the creation of a sustainable and clean energy market.
It is very important to provide for clear multiannual funding for projects in the field of energy, ensuring that the Baltic Sea region is also integrated into a single EU energy market, and that we pay the same for energy sources as other EU Member States.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska, because I generally share her views on how the future energy strategy of the European Union should be oriented: towards greater autonomy in relation to third countries providing fossil fuels, towards an opening up of the Member States which are still 'isolated' in terms of energy and which are not yet properly linked up to the European energy system, towards encouraging the development of renewable energies, and towards an external energy provision within the framework of the new European External Action Service.
The European Union's energy security policy should allow it to anticipate crisis situations, similar to the 2009 gas crisis, and not only to react to them.
This must go hand in hand with meeting the targets assumed for cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020.
Internal and external aspects need to be combined so that the EU is no longer vulnerable in terms of its energy supply and its policies must be adapted accordingly.
It is absolutely imperative to draw up national plans containing preventive and emergency measures.
I voted in favour of the report on energy strategy, which outlines the directions that future EU energy policy should take.
I would like to emphasise the role of nuclear energy in the current and future energy mix of the EU, including an implicit recognition of the need to extend the lifetime of existing facilities.
It is difficult to see how we can increase EU energy security and independence without coal as a stable primary resource capable of responding flexibly to sudden increases in energy demand.
In view of the continuing absence of regional markets and market coupling, I consider the aim of creating a unified internal market by 2015 to be highly ambitious, particularly if we take into account the fact that the European Commission does not, as I see it, sufficiently monitor the proper implementation of current European energy legislation in all Member States.
Like the rapporteur, I would stress that the European Union needs to furnish itself with the practical and financial resources needed to realise its objectives, not least by providing appropriate funding for research and development in the field of energy.
The energy sector is a driving force behind economic growth.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon allows us to go further, opening the way to creating a true energy community within Europe.
We need to develop the internal energy market, build and forge links between energy networks, ensure energy security and energy solidarity and put the consumer at the centre of our concerns.
Scientific research and technology play a key role in achieving these objectives.
In view of this, I welcome the launch of the various European industrial initiatives under the European Strategic Energy Technology Plan (SET Plan), and I call upon the Commission to put the rest of the measures in this plan into practice.
The eighth framework programme should also make research and the development of innovative technologies its priority in the field of energy.
That is the only way in which it will be possible to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, and promote economic growth and job creation.
I voted against the report on the new Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020.
The report is fully in line with the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, which does away with the last vestiges of social Europe.
The main aims featuring in this resolution are to move to a low carbon energy system and guarantee energy supply security for all Member States.
This objective will help boost the volume of investment in this area and, by extension, create new jobs in both rural and urban areas.
I voted in favour of the report 'Towards a new Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020' as I believe that there needs to be new strategic guidance for the sector in order to achieve the objectives set out in Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon, the 20-20-20 targets set out in the EU Energy and Climate Change Package, and the long-term objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 80% and 95% by 2050.
I broadly agree with these three objectives, but I believe that a fourth, and perhaps more important, challenge is missing here: the reduction of energy dependence, particularly as regards fossil fuels.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides a firm legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, the interconnection of networks and solidarity.
We can have a new strategy for the energy sector in order to meet the objectives of Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon and the 20-20-20 climate package targets.
The Treaty of Lisbon's objectives of a single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and savings, the development of new and renewable forms of energy and the promotion of energy networks must be fulfilled.
This strategy must be carried out in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility, so that no Member State is left behind or isolated.
The EU energy strategy advocated in this report, and which is advocated by the Commission in its various communications on the subject, is closely linked to the definition of a Union policy described in the Treaty of Lisbon: 'completion of the EU internal energy market'.
The rapporteur is calling for 'plans to be drawn up for a European Energy Community', insisting on the implementation and transposition by the Member States of the current directives on the internal market, and considering 'as a final measure, the resubmission of key provisions of current internal market directives in the form of regulations, to ensure full direct application across the single market'.
As we have repeated, we completely disagree with this proposal as an energy solution for Europe, and have therefore voted against the report.
This is a strategic sector for a state's economy and functioning, and it should be sovereign in defining its energy policies.
Moreover, the increase in dependence on imports for primary resources and consumer energy prices, coupled with disinvestment in energy infrastructure, have already revealed the failure of this private market strategy.
Only the public sector can guarantee universal access to energy, its effective management and efficiency, and reduced dependence on fossil fuels.
I agree with the aims of the motion for a resolution: creation of a single European energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency, development of new renewable energy sources, and support for energy grids.
I fully endorse the request for the Commission to adopt an ambitious energy efficiency action plan in order to reduce the EU's dependency, combat climate change, increase job creation and counteract increases in energy tariffs.
It should be stressed, however, that particular emphasis has been placed on certain projects, without explicitly mentioning others, that are also in the European interest and contribute to the aim of achieving energy security.
To achieve that aim, I believe we need not only to support certain infrastructure works, but also to have a neutral approach to all the various projects.
The European Union is currently a major player in the international energy market.
These issues have been a real source of concern within the European Union for many years.
For this reason I, together with my fellow Members of Parliament, have voted to adopt a resolution which calls on the European Union to diversify its providers in order to avoid future supply problems and to create a more rigorous strategic approach within the sector.
By voting in favour of the resolution, I also wanted to emphasise that energy efficiency should be a priority for the European Union.
Indeed, this seems to me to be the best way of reducing the EU's energy dependency, but also, and more importantly, of combating climate change - something which has now become an urgent necessity.
I agreed with this report and would firstly like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the first energy strategy since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Firstly, the Member States must implement legislation that has already been adopted in the field of energy.
Secondly, a single internal energy market must be established, as well as a renewable energy market.
Therefore, the EU must overcome any administrative and financial barriers and EU Member States must reconcile their interests and show solidarity.
The same rules must apply to every project, whether it be the Yamal pipeline, or the Nord Stream pipeline.
We are dependent on fossil fuels, sources of which are being exhausted, and therefore, it is especially urgent to develop not just renewable energy but to invest in increasing energy efficiency so that we can also mitigate the effects of climate change.
A major omission in current EU energy policy is the failure to direct EU funds into an area that still ranks, despite the recession, as one of the top priorities for European governments and citizens.
The focus in the field of energy should be on the consumer and the protection of his rights, and the EU must strive to ensure favourable energy prices for consumers and business.
I welcome the fact that, according to this report, the Commission and Member States are to ensure that the highest international safety standards are applied in both new and old nuclear power stations.
I also voted in favour of this clause.
However, I would like to clarify the fact that the discontinuation of nuclear power remains my ultimate goal.
Although we must move away from energy production using fossil fuels, nuclear energy is not the alternative.
Energy policy is, at present, a particularly important area of the European Union's activity.
Preventing energy crises in neighbouring countries and ensuring energy security in Member States should be a priority for the European Union institutions.
It is particularly important to ensure a balance between energy policy and environmental protection.
For this reason, we must promote the increased use of renewable energy sources to the greatest extent possible.
Of equally great importance is the diversification of oil and gas supplies, so that the European Union becomes less susceptible to energy crises in neighbouring countries.
A sustainable European energy strategy is the basic prerequisite for safeguarding energy supplies and must therefore cover all aspects of the provision of energy.
Biomass can play a considerable part in replacing oil and gas.
Agriculture can make a significant contribution to achieving the EU 2020 goals.
We need to recognise the signs of the future and invest in renewable energy sources and green technologies.
I support the parts of the report which call for measures to develop a sustainable energy policy in Europe with international importance.
I voted in favour of the report on energy strategy since it makes a constructive contribution to the European debate on the subject and lays down guidelines for the future of European energy policy.
The Treaty of Lisbon was the first step towards turning the tide, because it provides a strong legal framework and legal basis (Article 194) for action on energy policy.
The Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020 sets out general guidelines which seek to strengthen the recently defined internal energy market.
Finally, it binds European energy security into close cooperation with NATO.
I voted against it for these and other reasons.
The three objectives set out by the Commission on European energy policy are clear and ambitious: moving towards a low carbon energy system, ensuring security of energy supply, and ensuring that the EU's competitiveness and the supply of energy to all consumers at affordable prices are strengthened.
The Treaty of Lisbon provides the European Union with a strong legal framework and a strong legal basis - Article 194 - with a view to taking action on energy policy.
A long-term vision and a new energy strategy are necessary to attain the 20-20-20 objectives of the climate and energy package between now and 2020.
The European Union must demonstrate that it has will and ambition.
Energy efficiency and energy saving must be the first priorities, in particular, through the adoption of an action plan for energy efficiency and a programme of incentives favouring renewable energies at European level.
The Union must also expand research and development efforts as much as possible.
Finally, we must pay very particular attention to the competitiveness of the European Union and to the economic accessibility of energy for European industry and private consumers.
For this reason, and because I believe that we should continue to decide for ourselves how we obtain our energy, I am convinced that energy policy is something that should be left up to the individual Member States.
I have therefore voted against this amendment.
I voted in favour of Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska's report because I am aware that the road toward Europe's energy future is currently strewn with obstacles and difficulties that must be overcome.
The challenges that Europe intends to determinedly and resolutely face up to are many: the European energy system needs substantial investment at a very sensitive time when it is still dealing with the economic crisis, which has affected numerous sectors.
In view of the EU's current situation, I feel it is time to implement a new energy strategy with a view to achieving the goals laid down by the Climate Change Package (20-20-20).
The creation of instruments for providing incentives for the development and modernisation of energy networks would also be an interesting strategy, which I would support.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on a new Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020 as I, like the rapporteur, believe that by including a specific chapter on energy, the Treaty of Lisbon now provides a firm legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, the interconnection of networks and solidarity.
To this end, it is vital to address the problem of the delayed or incomplete implementation of energy legislation and the lack of comprehensive energy strategies with strong leadership from the Commission, alongside a convincing demonstration of Member State determination and support.
The Treaty of Lisbon defines a set of clear objectives for energy policy: ensuring the functioning of a single internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks and renewable sources of energy.
The EU therefore needs to adopt a new strategy for the energy sector which allows these objectives to be met, along with the 20-20-20 climate package targets.
In the end, our group abstained in the vote on this resolution due to the excessive emphasis placed on burning coal.
Despite the fact that two key amendments fell (regarding paragraphs 32 and 52), the content remains difficult for our group to accept.
Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska's report draws attention to a number of significant problems, such as the lack of a harmonised energy policy which takes account of the specific features of individual Member States as well as the need to import sources of energy from third countries.
Forecasts show that dependence on crude oil will be even greater in the future, which is why the energy strategy must have many aspects as well as an international dimension, going beyond the framework of the European Union.
In view of the close geographical proximity of Member States with Russia, the European Union should strive to achieve closer cooperation with our eastern neighbours under the right conditions.
Our efforts should also be concentrated on achieving the objectives of the Treaty of Lisbon and, as a consequence, on creating a single energy market, while at the same time guaranteeing security of energy supply.
To achieve these intentions, it is necessary to make investments in network infrastructure, because this would foster integration of regional energy markets, and also to modernise pan-European energy networks.
However, this will only be achieved by supporting energy security as a policy with other western agencies such as NATO.
The objectives of a structured plan, as submitted to Parliament, should include the implementation of a single energy market, and of security and efficiency of energy supply.
It is a fact that the situation facing the energy sector in Europe has to address many challenges, now and in the future.
The EU is increasingly dependent on energy imports, and energy production within the EU demands increased investment, at a time when the consequences of an economic crisis are still being faced.
I would like to emphasise the importance of making better use of the potential of renewable forms of energy in the EU, along with putting EU consumers and the public at the heart of European energy policy.
Energy efficiency should be a priority for the EU, in particular, as it is the most effective way of cutting costs for consumers across the EU.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the European Union should make an active contribution to making the conference on climate change in Cancún promising and transparent, especially as regards funding intended for adaptation, forestry, the efficient use of resources, technology transfer, surveillance, reporting and checks.
The EU should therefore likewise facilitate strong political engagement with third countries by developing policies to build effective mechanisms for international cooperation on climate change, both within and beyond the United Nations framework convention on climate change.
In the week preceding the climate change summit in Cancún, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution on the summit objectives.
I do not think that this kind of unilateral approach is good news for the impending negotiations in Cancún, and in my view, it is a pity that the resolution, which I opposed, has been adopted.
I supported this resolution.
Subsequent talks in Germany and China also failed to deliver the expected outcome and therefore, much hope is being placed on the conference in Cancún, where substantive steps need to be agreed - the conclusion of a comprehensive international post-2012 agreement - which should be in line with the latest developments in science and consistent with our intentions of halting the warming of the atmosphere by 2020, and of limiting global warming to 2 degrees by 2050, compared to 1990 levels.
I agree with the position set out in the resolution that the European Union should take a leading role in the climate negotiations and actively contribute to a more constructive climate conference in Cancún.
A few days before the opening of the climate change conference in Cancún, the joint resolution voted on by Parliament calls on 'Heads of State or Government worldwide to demonstrate real political leadership and willingness during the negotiations'.
We need specific and rapid measures, because the assessment is a harsh one: as things stand, our commitments are not likely to minimise damage due to climate change.
In short, our governments must do more, and they must do it more quickly.
The European Union must play a driving role in the negotiations by speaking with a single voice so that it can carry some weight when dealing with China and the United States.
I voted for this resolution because the European Union must play a leading role in climate change negotiations, as trust in the international negotiations on climate change needs to be restored after the disappointing outcome of the climate conference in Copenhagen.
I support the European Parliament's call to take concrete measures to halt deforestation and its proposal to establish an effective global emissions trading market.
Hopefully, substantive steps will be agreed in Cancún which should be in line with the latest developments in science in order to safeguard the survival of all nations, peoples and ecosystems.
It is also very important to guarantee full transparency in connection with, and a strong political commitment to, the implementation of the fast-start financing.
The success of the climate change conference in Cancún is vital to the credibility of the negotiating process under the auspices of the United Nations.
Reaching an agreement on aspects such as policies for forest protection, the transfer of technology to developing countries and funding is vital.
The initial form of the resolution on the Cancún climate change conference has been changed quite a lot and its content has been watered down considerably by incorporating the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
Nonetheless, I voted in favour of it, because I consider that there is an urgent need for fast and coordinated action at international level to combat climate change and that the resolution as a whole still contains numerous positive points and makes an important contribution on the part of the EU to the Cancún conference.
The report criticises the lack of preparation for the conference, emphasises the need to reduce emissions by at least 40% and calls on the EU and the Member States to implement the principle of 'climate justice'.
Finally, it rightly points out that the potential for energy saving is not being exploited and underlines the need to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and transport.
Although the data confirm that it will not be the EU that suffers most from the rise in CO2, that in itself does not mean we should have no sense of responsibility, including for what has been done in the past.
We cannot therefore back out of our commitment to make a tangible contribution to reducing emissions, although it is worth stressing that our efforts are essentially diplomatic in nature.
There may, in fact, be a very strong incentive to act as a free rider, but that should be discouraged in every possible way; otherwise, the costs that our production system is already beginning to pay - and paying willingly, provided it gets results - will be in vain.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution of 25 November 2010 on the UN climate change conference in Cancún with a view to meeting the overall objective of limiting the annual mean surface temperature increase to 2 ºC ('the 2 ºC objective').
The scientific arguments about climate change and its impact are glaringly obvious.
I think that the European Union and its Member States must define and implement a principle of 'climate justice' and, therefore, introduce an equity clause in future international climate negotiations.
I believe that it would be the greatest injustice if the world were unable to curb climate change, because it is specifically poor people in poor countries who would suffer.
I am voting in favour of the bulk of the measures and proposals presented in this report.
Following the disappointing outcome of the climate conference in Copenhagen, it is necessary to restore trust in the international negotiations on climate change.
Once again, it is up to the European Union to take a leading role in the climate change negotiations and make an active contribution so that Cancún results in more constructive, transparent and bold commitments.
I also believe that the European Union should aim to step up its climate diplomacy activities, seeking strong political engagement with third countries by developing policies to build effective instruments and mechanisms for international cooperation on environmental protection and climate change.
In this attempt to achieve bolder and more ambitious results, I also believe that in the final phase of the COP 16 negotiations, the European Union should give its chief negotiator some flexibility to react to developments thrown up by the negotiations.
We need specific and rapid measures, because the assessment is a harsh one: as things stand, our commitments are unlikely to minimise the damage caused by climate change.
The European Union must play a pivotal role in the negotiations by speaking with one voice to make its presence felt in its dealings with China and the United States.
The major target to be met is that of a 30% reduction in EU greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared with 1990 levels.
We must also ensure that industrialised countries such as the United States make a commitment to developing countries in order to help them combat and adapt to climate change, by combating deforestation, desertification and so on.
It is time for our governments to take stock of the climate challenges ahead of us and to reach a political consensus that allows for the implementation of a true global policy for combating climate change.
It is already very difficult to gain acceptance for this objective from the other countries involved in the international negotiations on climate change.
Proposing a new objective of a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions in the European Union is therefore completely disproportionate, and that is why I voted against this motion for a resolution.
The position adopted by Parliament today does not put the European Union in a credible position when it comes to negotiating with its partners to reach an agreement during next week's Cancún conference.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the Cancún climate change conference as I believe that Parliament should send a clear message that world leaders need to demonstrate their political leadership during the negotiations in order to progress to the level of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol.
In particular, climate change has caused the worrying rise in sea level, forced migrations, and the fight for access to waterways and more fertile land, as in Sudan, pitting nomadic herdsmen against settled farmers.
The EU must actively participate in this global effort and do its best to monitor this problem and seek lasting solutions, which will ideally be able to reconcile scientific and technological progress, and the development of populations with environmental quality and respect for nature.
The Cancún climate change conference is an excellent opportunity to pursue this objective in order to establish more ambitious targets and reach a more solid and comprehensive collective commitment to combating the problem.
It is clear that such an agreement will only make sense if it is binding on the major global emitters: the US, China and India.
The EU has been a leader in combating climate change, and should be encouraged to build on this leadership, although without forgetting the tremendous efforts that our industries have already made to respond to the mandatory reductions in emissions within Europe.
It should be noted that the EU is responsible for around 15% of global emissions, and it is estimated that this percentage will fall to 10% in 2030, while the US, China and India are responsible for half of global emissions, with this figure continuing to rise.
As a result, I cannot agree that the EU should unilaterally limit its CO2 emissions by 30%, rather than the target of 20%, if this is not going to be duly matched by other countries, notably the US.
On the contrary, I believe that, even if others do not go along with us, we should continue to focus our efforts on scientific research, technological innovation relating to non-carbon energy sources, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs, in order to increase our competitiveness.
It falls short of what is needed in the discussion on the distortions introduced by so-called flexibility mechanisms and the need for their abolition or recasting.
There is an obvious misunderstanding of the meaning and serious importance of the principle of a 'common but differentiated responsibility' when placing the world's major historical polluters, such as the US, the biggest global emitter per capita, which is resisting making serious commitments to reduce its emissions, on an equal footing with emerging economies such as China or India, with per capita emissions that are 10 and 4 times lower respectively than those of the US.
In terms of funding adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, the severe constraints that weigh on these countries continue to be ignored, such as the massive, unfair foreign debt carried by the least developed countries.
I welcome the resolution on the Cancún climate change conference, particularly the amendments by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), which state a sensible and pragmatic principle: no increase in the emissions reduction quota can be decided unilaterally by the EU in the absence of tangible commitments by the other major world players.
Europe must certainly continue to lead the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, but this cannot be done in the name of an environmentalist ideology that requires no joint acceptance of responsibility and ends up penalising hundreds of thousands of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly during a crisis period.
I have voted against today's motion for a resolution on the climate conference in Cancún (COP 16) because I feel duty-bound to climate protection, by which I mean realistic climate protection that combines sustainability and economic development.
If we had pursued this demand, we would have had to reduce our emissions to zero in the next ten years and strive for negative emissions in the short or long term.
We must avoid making such demands, as we risk losing credibility among our partners throughout the world, particularly those who are still unsure about joining with us.
I am convinced that in our efforts to secure this, Europe must speak with one voice.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I feel that we have no more time to lose and that if we delay and prevaricate further, we will miss our chance.
The EU's unilateral adoption of an objective for reducing emissions by 30% by 2020 would have grave repercussions in France in terms of competitiveness and jobs.
We will only be able to talk of 30% when an international agreement on this figure is concluded.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the Cancún climate change conference because now more than ever, in the wake of the failure of the Copenhagen Summit, the European Union needs to be united in pushing for tough targets.
It also proposes the creation of a 'green climate fund' which could be used to provide funding where required, with priority given to vulnerable countries.
I have voted against the resolution.
That is why I voted against the resolution.
The Danish Social Democrats have abstained from voting on the obligation for a 40% reduction.
The Social Democrats support 40% in principle, but in this particular vote, they chose to support 30% as a result that is achievable in practice.
This is also reflected in the final result.
I regret the fact that, in the context of the resolution on the climate conference, the call for a global tax on financial transactions, the revenue from which could be used, among other things, to combat deforestation and desertification, did not receive the support of the majority in the European Parliament.
I am pleased that we have adopted the target of limiting global warming to a minimum of 2 °C, without ruling out from the negotiations the possibility of limiting the temperature rise to 1.5 °C, in order to be able to ensure the survival of all countries, peoples and ecosystems.
It is vital that there is a worldwide decision made quickly that may help stem the worst results of climate change.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which sets out Parliament's position in advance of the Cancún climate change conference.
It calls on the European Union once again to take a leading role in the climate negotiations and to actively contribute to a more constructive and transparent climate conference in Cancún.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the run-up to the climate conference to be held in Cancún from 29 November to 11 December, essentially because we need to arrive in Mexico with a clear, well-defined common position.
The EU must be capable of taking a leading role in the fight against climate change.
Every country, from the US to the so-called emerging countries, including China, which are heavy polluters, must also accept its responsibilities in a fight that is leaving less and less room for new opportunities.
The sustainable future of humanity is at stake.
If nothing is done in time, we could reach the point of no return.
Here in Europe, we have a high level of environmental awareness, something that is not the case in some of the so-called emerging economies.
Climate change is one of the greatest environmental problems of our time and, in turn, is also causing numerous natural disasters.
However, it seems that we may not achieve the targets set.
Therefore, although setting ambitious targets makes us leaders in the fight against climate change, it by no means contributes to the EU's objective of becoming the world's most competitive region.
I voted against the final document because, while I have no doubt that the EU can lead the way in terms of reducing climate change and we all know our commitments to nature, we must set goals that are as realistic as possible and move towards them in a consistent manner.
The fact that the European economy had to cut back on its production on account of the crisis, resulting in reduced levels of emissions, is not an argument for the 30% reduction in CO2 emissions being called for by the EU Climate Action Commissioner, Mrs Hedegaard, now that the 20% reduction can easily be achieved as a result of the economic crisis.
There is little point in reducing CO2 emissions throughout the EU while, at the same time, shifting industries that are harmful to the climate and the hazardous waste from industrial nations to developing countries.
On the other hand, restrictive EU measures hold our economy back and impede our companies in international competition.
I therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the climate change conference in Cancún so that Europe may express its support for the climate change agreements in a conference of international importance.
Global warming is now scientifically proven, and so the target must be to stabilise global greenhouse gas emissions no later than by 2015 in order to halve emissions by 2050.
The climate change conference in Cancún (COP 16) is crucial for all Europeans and for people all over the world.
We need a responsible and ambitious policy at this level from all political players.
Regarding the commitments on reducing emissions, the increase must also remain below 1.5 °C, which requires that global greenhouse gas emissions peak by 2015 at the latest and are reduced by at least 50% as compared with 1990 by 2050, and continue to decline thereafter.
Learning from the positive outcome in Nagoya in October and the negative experience from Copenhagen in 2009, I think that the EU will speak with a single voice.
Based on its mandate, the EU and its Member States must continue to play a constructive role globally in order to achieve a legally binding post-Kyoto agreement.
This is why I welcome the fact that 5 000 representatives of civil society have registered to attend the COP 16 proceedings.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the European Union should demonstrate its strong commitment and determination in the context of the global effort to find solutions that can mitigate climate change and its effects.
There is good reason for this pessimism, given the real lack of will displayed in these last few months by the main protagonists, the United States and China foremost among them, without whom a quantified and binding agreement cannot be envisaged.
In the resolution adopted at noon today, the European Parliament reminded us that we should aim for the objective of a 1.5 °C temperature rise limit in order to ensure the survival of all nations, all peoples and all ecosystems.
The resolution reminds us that in order to be credible, the European Union must not only honour its commitments to provide USD 30 billion of aid to the poorest countries for the period 2010-2012, but also show imagination in order to save the planet.
It must also provide new sources of financing: a tax on financial transactions, international taxes on business, national taxes on emissions and contributions on air tickets, proposals that I and 292 other MEPs supported.
in writing. - The ENVI resolution was fairly narrowly adopted (final vote 292/274/38) with the following changes/remarks: the reference to 'without prejudice to moving to a 1.5 ºC limit' was deleted with a narrow majority (RCV Amendment 14 and Amendment 18: 307/304/xx); the explicit mention that LULUCF and AAU loopholes could nullify all Annex I targets was deleted (Amendment 16: 316/301/xx), but other paragraphs requiring robust rules that are designed to deliver emissions reductions from Annex I remained.
The paragraph reiterating 'the need to adopt a domestic greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for the European Union of 30% by 2020 as compared with the 1990 level, in the interests of the future economic growth of the European Union' was maintained (PPE Amendment 20 rejected by RCV: 298/316/xx).
Having listened to the Chair of the Committee, Jo Leinen, I am convinced that at its heart, a multilateral agreement can only be reached if the suspicion of BRIC countries can be removed.
During yesterday's vote in the European Parliament, I voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in Cancún (COP 16).
Developing countries are affected particularly badly and therefore, world leaders must do their utmost to ensure that the climate negotiations do not jeopardise the Millennium Development Goals.
However, I would like to emphasise in particular that I voted against the wording in the resolution that urges the EU, in the negotiations, to propose a tax rate of 0.01% on financial transactions.
This sort of tax is not the right way to go and it will not help the developing countries to combat and adapt to climate change.
This territory, which was under Spanish administration until 1976, is still the subject of considerable tension between the Moroccan authorities and the independence movement.
The resolution proposed by some of my fellow Members regarding the tragic events on 24 October 2010 was produced as a matter of urgency even though a degree of hindsight is essential in such cases.
After more than 30 years, the Western Sahara decolonisation process remains unfinished.
There must therefore be an independent international investigation under the auspices of the UN to explain the deaths and disappearances of civilians.
It is also important to establish a human rights monitoring mechanism, release human rights activists and grant the press, independent observers and humanitarian organisations free access to Western Sahara.
I support the United Nations investigation into the issue of Western Sahara, and its position that Morocco should allow journalists, independent observers and humanitarian organisations free access to this particular region.
I am aware that Morocco is a strategic partner and ally of the European Union in combating radical Islamic fundamentalism.
However, I do not accept the Moroccan authorities' attitude towards the serious, violent incidents that took place in the Gdaim Izyk camp in Western Sahara on 8 November, which caused the death of an as yet unknown number of people.
In view of this, I recognise the need to call upon UN agencies to propose the creation of a mechanism to monitor human rights in Western Sahara.
The situation of Western Sahara has been dragging on for more than 30 years without any apparent solution.
I hope there will be a definitive end to this problem, and that a political and administrative solution can be found to the conflict, in order to reconcile the interests of the parties.
We are pleased that Parliament has strongly condemned the violent incidents that took place in the Gdaim Izyk camp in Western Sahara on 8 November, which caused the death of an unknown number of people.
We hope that the Commission and the Council will demand the measures that are proposed here, stressing the need for UN bodies to propose the creation of a monitoring mechanism for human rights in Western Sahara and demand compliance with the resolutions that have already been adopted, including self-determination for the people of Western Sahara.
The attacks on the freedom of the press and information that many European journalists have suffered are also regrettable, and the Kingdom of Morocco should be urged to permit free access and free movement in Western Sahara for the press, independent observers and humanitarian organisations.
Finally, we would like to stress the importance of increasing funding and supplying the humanitarian aid needed by the Sahrawi refugees who live in the Tindouf region, whose numbers are estimated at between 90 000 and 165 000, with a view to providing their basic necessities of food, water, shelter and medical care, as well as an improvement in their living conditions.
Today, we are voting on a motion for a resolution that aims to guarantee respect for human rights and acceptable socio-economic conditions for the people of Western Sahara.
The situation in Western Sahara remains one of the final vestiges of decolonisation and, after 30 years, needs to be resolved.
I welcome the call in this resolution for a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in full accordance with the UN Security Council resolutions, and I would once again echo the UN in urging that there must be a referendum of the people in the region.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution on the unfortunate situation in Western Sahara.
I am shocked by the violent incidents which took place in the Camp of Gdaim Izyk and in the town of Laâyoune, as well as by the use of force on the very same day on which the third cycle of informal talks on the status of Western Sahara opened in New York.
The situation in Western Sahara is very worrying, and Parliament should give a clear signal that it condemns what is happening there.
The EU must continue to make an effort to provide humanitarian aid to these refugees so that they have the basic conditions for survival.
I voted in favour of this resolution because it sends a loud, clear message reinforcing the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination, and condemns the atrocities committed by the Moroccan Government.
Although my group had asked for the EU's association agreement with Morocco to be frozen due to infringement of the second clause, I have given my support to this resolution because it demands an international investigation conducted by the United Nations, it calls on Morocco to 'abide by international law regarding the exploitation of the natural resources of Western Sahara' and 'insists on the necessity to call on UN bodies to propose the setting up of a human rights monitoring mechanism in Western Sahara'.
The reason why I voted in favour of this resolution on the current situation in Western Sahara is rooted in the commitment that has always been shown, with particular emphasis on the way the conflict between Morocco and the Polisario Front over Western Sahara has developed, above all, because of the obvious implications of that problem for stability in the region.
Clearly, Morocco has been invited on several occasions to maintain an open, flexible dialogue with no preconditions in order to obtain small but significant steps forward in the peace talks brokered by the United Nations.
In many EU countries, including Italy, there is widespread sensitivity and awareness regarding the conditions in which the Sahrawi people live, with particular understanding for Morocco's positions and points of view.
The Union, particularly the Mediterranean countries, has always been to the fore in terms of giving the Sahrawi people humanitarian aid, because the principle of solidarity towards people living in such problem circumstances is fundamental.
There have been reports from Western Sahara of instances of police violence against citizens who were holding a non-violent protest camp outside the city of Laâyoune against the social, political and economic situation and against their living conditions.
The violent incidents that occurred in Western Sahara as the Gdaim Izyk camp was being dismantled and in the town of Laâyoune are very serious and must be roundly condemned.
As the United Nations has pointed out, the parties involved in the conflict need to agree to seek a realistic political solution that is fair, sustainable, acceptable to both sides and in line with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the joint resolution on Western Sahara.
I have voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in Western Sahara.
This joint resolution sends out a strong signal from the European Parliament condemning the recent resurgence of violence in Western Sahara.
On 8 November, the Sahrawi protest camps were violently broken up, as a result of which there were many deaths on both sides and many of the inhabitants injured.
There are calls for the Moroccan authorities to allow journalists, humanitarian organisations, MEPs and independent observers free access to Western Sahara.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the joint resolution on Western Sahara,.
We must, at all costs, avoid the creation of a new front in the much-contested Sahel region and seek to preserve our strategic partnership with Morocco.
I support this resolution.
Furthermore, it is important for the authorities to refrain from any attempts to control, directly or indirectly, the content of the reporting in the national media.
Parliament calls on the Commission and the Council to draft an action plan on establishing visa-free travel for Ukraine.
Further reforms are also necessary in order to strengthen media freedom and pluralism.
State institutions are urged to take measures to ensure freedom of the press.
I am critical of the local elections that took place on 31 October in Ukraine and would like the freedom of the press to be respected.
For the Russians, it was always a remote province, and now Ukraine is a border country for the European Union as well, as a result of the last but one enlargement.
With the caution that respect for the democratic will of a people requires, the European Union is being consistent with its role as a global player by offering itself as a guarantor of freedom, democracy and pluralism in a situation in which respect for such values may enable the country to achieve the stability that it badly needs.
The enlargement process not only entails assessments of a strategic and commercial nature - although these aspects must also be seen as relevant - but, most of all, a constant, peaceful effort to expand the cultural sphere with reference to the universe of values that the EU represents.
Aware that they share responsibilities in promoting stability, the EU and Ukraine have been stepping up negotiations and looking to arrange new cooperation partnerships.
These go beyond mere economic cooperation, as they also cover the areas of the rule of law and respect for human rights, where much remains to be done in Ukraine, as this recent setback to the electoral process has demonstrated.
I would also like to highlight the extreme importance of Ukraine's European integration process for it to carry out the necessary economic, social and political reforms.
I believe that we can only maintain our support for the prospect of Ukraine's European integration to ensure a strategic partnership with the country insofar as it takes on board the recommendations of this resolution.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution on Ukraine.
The European Parliament has seen it as its duty and privilege to take its own position before regular summit meetings with third countries to be able to convey its position in time to both parties.
The impact of a resolution adopted afterwards will be much weaker.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution on Ukraine.
The recent local elections in Ukraine extended the influence of President Viktor Yanukovych's party to the regions.
I voted for the adoption of the resolution because it calls on Ukraine, which, in the long-term, is aiming for EU Membership, to adopt legislation governing media activities that complies with international standards and underlines the need to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of state institutions.
The resolution will also allow Ukraine to take part in Union programmes and will define the implementation of new laws on gas now that Kiev has joined the Energy Community.
The new political context and institutional framework in Ukraine, as well as the readiness of newly elected President Viktor Yanukovych and the Ukrainian Parliament (Verkhovna Rada) to confirm Ukraine's determination to join the European Union, are another step towards starting the accession process.
Under Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, Ukraine may apply for membership of the EU, as can any European state that adheres to the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
In view of this, I would like to highlight the importance of strengthening cooperation as regards exchanges for young people and students and the development of scholarship programmes that will allow Ukrainians to become familiar with the EU and its Member States.
Close cooperation with Ukraine is important if there is at least the smallest chance of ensuring stability in the region.
My country, Lithuania, also has a role to play here.
Security and energy are two areas where there will need to be long-term cooperation to fix some of Kiev's woes.
However, as Ukraine makes efforts to modernise its economy and better integrate into Europe, it is important for democratic principles and human rights to be respected.
Therefore, I sincerely hope that sustainable progress will be made at the EU-Ukraine summit in Brussels on 22 November.
The fall of the Soviet Union gave the people of Ukraine the first opportunity in their history to decide their future with freedom and national autonomy.
This is something that should never be forgotten by those in Ukraine who have political, economic and social responsibilities.
The management of the recent regional elections and the events before and after the elections in Ukraine give one cause to wonder whether the actions of those with political responsibility in Ukraine really do reflect the principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
As a signatory, I have voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the European Union needs to take a leading role in combating climate change, thereby strengthening its economic competitiveness through energy saving and renewable energy, two sectors that can help improve its energy security and which have great potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, regional development and job creation.
Nevertheless, in order to carry out this role and reap the benefits of competitiveness, the EU will have to amend its trade policies, whether they are bilateral, regional or multilateral, as trade in goods and services is responsible for approximately 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
It should encourage the paradigm shifts that are needed in methods of production and consumption and investment strategies.
It should also be active with regard to emissions from international transport and to climate-friendly technologies.
The trade in goods and services generates around 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
I voted for this resolution as it identifies the next stages which will enable the European Union to continue along this path, strengthens the positive interaction between trade and climate protection and the tools ensuring consistency between trade and climate, and encourages fair international trade prices, thereby avoiding carbon leakage.
I want to emphasise that the European Union is unable to assume the leading role in the battle against climate change if it fails to strengthen the competitiveness of its economy through saving energy and developing renewable energy sources.
These are two sectors which have massive potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, regional development and job creation, and which can increase Europe's energy security.
At the UN summit on climate change in December 2009, the European Union was unfortunately unable to play the role it had hoped to.
I feel that changes in WTO rules are needed to ensure coherence and consistency with the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and multilateral environment agreements (MEAs).
This would ensure that all countries adhere to the same standards, because currently, by subsidising energy prices and applying no restriction or no quota on CO2 emissions, certain countries have a greater competitive advantage and have no incentive to join the multilateral climate change agreements.
I voted for this report because it identifies strategic objectives and stages the European Union could continue to follow as it seeks a better agreement on climate change.
I would like to point out that combating climate change is a factor in competitiveness, with Europe's priorities being energy savings and renewable energies which help improve EU energy security and which offer major potential in terms of industrial development, innovation, regional development and job creation.
As the outcome of the UN climate summit in Copenhagen was a disappointing agreement, the European Union must now be more audible, united and effective.
Yannick Jadot's report reminds us that trade in goods and services accounts for approximately 20% of global greenhouse emissions, a fact that should be taken into account in efforts to tackle climate change.
I have to join the rapporteur in deploring the fact that countries which subsidise energy prices and fail to limit or apply quotas to CO2 emissions may enjoy a competitive advantage.
It is a pity that these countries have no interest in subscribing to multilateral agreements on climate change and are therefore encouraging unfair competition.
The European Union's trade policy is not an end in itself - it must remain a political regulatory tool.
We need to ensure fair competition and refuse to allow our efforts to address climate change to become a disadvantage in terms of world trade.
The European Union's commitment to curb CO2 emissions cannot be advanced by statements of principle and ideological arguments.
Trade policies must play their part in this context.
It is easy to ask the Member States to cut their emissions, but it is pointless if the most polluting production plants are relocated to countries outside our borders.
I voted for this resolution as I feel that the rapporteur's text is veering towards the European Union assuming bold commitments in the battle against climate change.
This resolution proposes an EU-level reduction of up to 30% in greenhouse gas emissions.
I support this ambitious proposal, while believing that the EU's efforts must be backed up globally by the efforts of the major industrialised countries.
Indeed, we need to find a way to involve as well the international state actors which are more reluctant to follow our lead.
In addition, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, I highlighted, by tabling amendments to the original text, the need to create a World Environmental Organisation and introduce environmental criteria in the reform of the GSP.
A large majority in the European Parliament voted in favour of this report, which seeks to improve the links between trade and climate action through proposals to discriminate against products in accordance with their environmental impact and to create a carbon monitoring scheme for all trade policies.
I voted in favour of the report on 'international trade policy in the context of climate change imperatives' since, bearing in mind that trade in goods and services is responsible for approximately 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions, measures are required to curb global warming at the level of common trade policy.
Following the stalemate of the Copenhagen climate change conference, it is important that the European Union continues along the route it has taken up to this point in terms of making a serious commitment to sustainable development and trying to reduce carbon emissions without jeopardising European industry.
However, any European commitment to reduce emissions cannot lose sight of economic efficiency or jeopardise the economic sustainability of the Member States, which are currently undergoing an unprecedented economic crisis.
We cannot allow increased technology transfer to developing countries to be a way of addressing carbon leakage, and we cannot let policies designed to reduce CO2 emissions condemn European industry.
The outcome of the UN climate summit in Copenhagen was a disappointing agreement which will not be able to keep global warming below 2 °C.
It should be noted that the EU is responsible for around 15% of global emissions, and it is estimated that this percentage will fall to 10% in 2030, while the US, China and India are responsible for half of global emissions, with this figure continuing to rise.
In terms of EU international trade policy in the context of climate change, even if others do not go along with us, our objective should be to focus our efforts on scientific research, technological innovation relating to non-carbon energy sources, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs, in order to increase our competitiveness.
On the contrary, supporting the Treaty of Lisbon and 'free trade', implementing palliative controls on the environmental degradation caused by the liberalisation of trade, will only exacerbate the environmental degradation that is increasingly threatening our planet and its people.
The EU has a responsibility to incorporate aspects of environmental policy relating to trade into its international trade policy.
However, there is still more to be done.
Agricultural subsidies are necessary for food security and independence for 500 million Europeans and, for me, this is of central importance.
The subsidies also enable diversity in farming and contribute to landscape conservation.
The rapporteur's proposal to compensate for this disadvantage through protectionist measures such as a carbon tax at the Union's borders and regulated minimum prices for CO2 would increase the competitive deficit compared with other sectors downstream from the industrial production chain.
In addition, these measures would damage the Union's external trade policy by making it more complicated to conclude future free trade agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral.
The Copenhagen conference a year ago showed that if the European Union moves forward unilaterally, its climate policy is doomed to failure.
This is because its economic partners will not allow European objectives or methods to be dictated to them.
The Union must support businesses in their efforts to reduce their energy consumption while maintaining their international competitiveness.
A more pragmatic approach in international negotiations would be a start.
In many Member States, consumption-related emissions are higher than levels of production-related emissions.
The European Union has to fight these 'traded' emissions.
The EU must transform its modes of production and consumption, and not restrict itself to outsourcing its emissions.
The EU has to adjust its trade policies towards some form of discrimination of products on the basis of their climate impact, thus stimulating the paradigm shifts required in methods of production and consumption, and of investment strategies.
This report is an attempt to find a solution to the problem of globalisation, a problem that the EU has itself created.
Cheap products are produced in countries outside the European Union under completely different conditions and are then imported cheaply into Europe, putting pressure on European wage levels and weakening our economy.
This report deals with the much higher levels of CO2 produced as a result.
It is for that reason that I have voted against this report.
I also believe that it is vital to strengthen positive interaction between trade and climate protection, to make international trade prices fairer and avoid carbon leakage, to promote the differentiation of products according to their impact on the climate, to ensure that trade liberalisation does not jeopardise ambitious climate policies, to fully include transport in the trade and climate equation, and to strengthen tools to reconcile trade and climate and enhance EU consistency on climate and trade from the viewpoint of developing countries.
However, the EU has already taken the first steps in the right direction with regard to illegal timber imports, biofuels and aviation emissions.
The aim of this report, which is the product of numerous discussions held with businesses, associations, trade union representatives or with the Commission, is to identify the additional steps which would enable the EU to continue in this direction.
The United Nations summit on climate change held in Copenhagen produced a disappointing agreement that is not capable of limiting global warming to below 2 °C.
This report seems to be trying to sketch out the main points of the next document to be prepared in connection with the climate change summit (COP 16).
According to many MEPs, the Union should do more and more to reduce emissions - reductions of 30%, 40%, 50% - while in the meantime, we are failing to implement the famous 2020 strategy.
I therefore accept the principles proposed in this report, which are aimed at conducting trade in a manner consistent with the EU's objectives, especially its foreign policy.
This is a form of social dumping which must be regulated by agreeing the proposals in this report, especially those that relate to mechanisms for judicial cooperation between the EU and partner countries, in order to prosecute multinational corporations for serious infringements of environmental rules or fundamental rights, and through the adoption of a new initiative by the Commission.
I would like to point out that the international economic and financial crisis has engendered a social crisis throughout the world, and this has merely increased the need for stringent rules to ensure that the world economy is more effectively supervised and that it does not develop to the detriment of our societies.
Thus, in Europe's case, trade policy must be conducted in a manner consistent with all the Union's objectives and, in particular, the objectives of its external policy.
Furthermore, it is very important for Europe to ensure that its common commercial policy does not undermine, but rather helps to safeguard, its social model and its environmental policy.
It is becoming clear that the EU must reflect on the trade policies which it wishes to adopt when reviewing its trade strategy.
If it wants to send out a clear anti-protectionist message, it must ensure that international trade is fair.
The European Union must uphold its commercial interests while complying with and ensuring that others comply with its standards and values.
We must not forget that businesses are bound in Europe by strict social and environmental rules.
The EU must be able to require the same from its trading partners, particularly from emerging countries, and insist on quality and sustainability, particularly for food products coming into its territory, in order to preserve fair and equitable trade.
The Union must establish a dialogue with its partners and find common ground for conveying its values.
Based on this effort to be transparent and establish dialogue, in the light of the new powers it has been granted, the European Parliament has a key role to play, with its duty being to give the negotiations a political and moral mandate.
I voted in favour of this report as I think it is particularly pertinent in ensuring that more sustainable policies are developed which take account of social and environmental issues, particularly by promoting corporate social responsibility (CSR).
In particular, this report proposes that future trade agreements negotiated by the European Union should contain a chapter on sustainable development which includes a CSR clause, which I consider to be crucial.
The aim is highly commendable, provided it is implemented correctly and does not place burdens on our businesses that hinder their competitiveness, as this is already constrained by rules that are too inflexible in areas such as labour rights and environmental standards (although no one in the Member States questions the social benefits that come with the bloating of cost structures).
This is why the European Parliament has called for a corporate social responsibility clause to be included in the trade agreements signed by the European Union which would apply to undertakings that invest in developing countries.
The clause would require these undertakings, their subsidiaries and supply chain to give clear and demonstrable commitments regarding the social and environmental impact of their business.
I voted for this report because it advocates the need for a new regulatory approach to international trade.
The principles that guide corporate social responsibility (CSR) are fully recognised at international level, and focus on the expectation of responsible behaviour by companies, which presupposes respect for the legislation in force, especially as regards taxation, employment, labour relations, human rights, the environment, consumers' rights and also their involvement in the fight against corruption.
I therefore think it is very positive that the EU is now incorporating a chapter on sustainable development, which will include CSR clauses, into future trade agreements.
The Union must ensure that the external policies it implements make an effective contribution to the sustainable and social development of the countries concerned.
Pursuant to Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the EU's common trade policy must be conducted 'in the context of the principles and objectives of the Union's external action,' and, pursuant to Article 3, it should contribute, among other things, 'to the sustainable development of the Earth, solidarity and mutual respect among peoples, in particular, the rights of the child, as well as to the strict observance and the development of international law, including respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter'.
Parliament is calling for a clause on corporate social responsibility to be included in all international trade agreements signed by the European Union.
This clause would require the regular publication of reports detailing the social and environmental impact of each undertaking's activities, taking into account all subsidiaries and the supply chain.
The report calls for the creation of legal cooperation mechanisms between the EU and signatory states and under trade agreements in order to guarantee recourse to the justice system for victims where multinationals and their subsidiaries fail to comply with social and environmental legislation.
I agreed with the report because, as you know, the expansion in international trade is justified if it contributes to economic development, to job creation and to improved living standards.
The expansion in international trade is universally beneficial only if certain conditions are met, hence the need to manage the liberalisation of trade, including practical arrangements and the volume of trade, a need which has come to be felt even more strongly as the globalisation process has accelerated.
I voted in favour of the report, as I believe that companies engaging in trade have a certain responsibility towards the people that work for them.
The common commercial policy must be consistent with the European Union's overall objectives and not merely serve the short-term interests of major economic operators.
I voted for this report as I think that the integration of corporate social responsibility principles into international trade regulations will provide the Union with the opportunity to exert a certain pressure on businesses and on states which sign trade agreements with the European Union to ensure compliance with labour standards.
This will allow us to ensure that the external policies we implement will actually contribute to sustainable social and economic development, while businesses will comply with our internationally agreed regulations and values.
Even so, it can provide a conceptual and legal framework for state intervention in production, and the social and ecological conditions under which it takes place.
The principles governing legislation in force, especially as regards taxation, employment, labour relations, human rights, the environment, consumers' rights and also their involvement in the fight against corruption, must be adopted by all companies operating in international trade.
The incorporation of these kinds of clauses into future trade agreements to be negotiated is therefore paramount.
This report also seeks greater regulation of business by the European Union.
It is for that reason that I abstained from voting.
After the climate, energy and food crises, the international financial crisis, which has resulted in a widespread social crisis, simply adds the demand for strong rules to ensure that the global economy is better integrated and does not develop to the detriment of society.
For people anywhere in the world, the development of international trade is, in fact, justified only where it contributes to economic development, employment and improved living standards.
The European Parliament resolution on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements is intended as a warning and a step forward on the path towards a new social model based on ethics and social responsibility in the world of business.
Indeed, global problems have been exacerbated by the financial crisis and its social consequences.
In view of this, I would also like to stress my support for a Trade and Decent Work Committee within the World Trade Organisation (WTO), which would provide a forum for the discussion of issues including labour standards, especially as they relate to the employment of children, and CSR, as it relates to international trade.
I have therefore voted in favour of the text.
The two block exemption regulations, the specialisation BER (Commission Regulation (EC) No 2658/2000) and the research and development BER (Commission Regulation (EC) No 2659/2000) will expire on 31 December 2010.
The Commission intends to adopt two new block exemption regulations amending the previous ones and certain guidelines so that stakeholders would help to analyse and understand whether their cooperation agreements are in tune with competition rules.
I supported this resolution, in particular, the European Parliament's aim of ensuring legal certainty for stakeholders.
In fact, the situation in every market niche should be examined on a case by case basis in order to carry out a fair evaluation of them in terms of respecting those principles which, if applied mechanically, would end up generating paradoxical and anti-economic situations.
In accordance with Articles 101(1) and (3), 103(1) and 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, forms of horizontal cooperation are allowed between companies, provided that these agreements contribute to improved production or distribution of products, or to promoting technological or economic progress, and that there are benefits for consumers.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that, given the significant legislative changes since the adoption of the regulations and horizontal guidelines, and the subsequent experience which the Commission has gained in the application of these rules, there is a need to codify a new set of rules issued by the Commission that takes account of European Court of Justice case-law in this area.
I agree with the proposal because horizontal agreements usually raise more competition concerns than vertical agreements and therefore, I am pleased that the Commission is maintaining a more restrictive approach on setting the market share threshold as regards horizontal agreements.
I also take the view that such an approach should not, however, lead to a more complicated regulatory framework.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
I welcome the fact that the Commission has opened two different public consultations in connection with the review of the competition rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements.
The review of the competition rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements is crucial in order to increase collaboration between companies, especially in terms of R&amp;D, and thus helps to create synergies for greater development in all areas of cooperation.
On the other hand, horizontal cooperation agreements can reduce competition if the competitors set prices, fix outputs or force the division of the markets.
I am abstaining from the vote, because some points are still not worded sufficiently clearly.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the review of the competition rules applicable to horizontal cooperation agreements as it takes account of the Commission's activity, particularly its transparency in its dealings with Parliament and the spirit of openness with which it began this process of revision, aiming to listen to all the stakeholders.
In accordance with the resolution, I believe that it is crucial that once the final new regulatory framework has been adopted, a summary note and new Frequently Asked Questions should explain this framework in detail to all market players.
