author. - Mr President, the illegal and unelected regime of Andry Rajoelina is riddled with corruption and has orchestrated serious human rights abuses in Madagascar, yet Rajoelina came to power pledging an end to corruption and human rights abuses that allegedly flourished under the ousted former President, Marc Ravalomanana.
The African Union (AU) could do far more.
Rajoelina should also allow his rival to stand in the presidential election planned for September this year.
This is particularly true of the resolution on Madagascar.
I have already had occasion to deplore this and other resolutions, in February 2010, when the previous urgent resolution on that country was adopted.
A new meeting of the SADC is to be held in Johannesburg on Saturday in the presence of all the representatives of the different strands of political opinion in Madagascar to ratify this road map.
The European Union must continue with its humanitarian aid to the people and must contribute to finding an agreement between the parties that facilitates a neutral transitional government, which is consensual and inclusive, in order to restore constitutional order and call free and transparent democratic elections that allow all political movements and leaders to participate freely and let the Malagasy people decide their future.
Therefore, I welcome the sanctions that have so far been imposed on the regime, and encourage the international community to extend them in order to overthrow Rajoelina's government and bring about a true and definitive transition to democracy. (RO) Mr President, the coup d'état which took place in March 2009 has been followed by acts of violence, human rights violations, including the random arrest of opposition leaders, and internal insecurity.
In addition, the political militia must be disbanded, as a matter of urgency, and the abuses carried out by the government's security forces against the population ended.
This is why I call on the Commission and Council to continue their efforts and step them up more quickly so as to provide solutions and the environment for organising free elections and protection for human rights in Madagascar. (FI) Mr President, the people of the world's fourth largest island have been suffering since the military takeover in 2009.
The island's flora and fauna have evolved in isolation and are irreplaceable and unique, when considered globally.
So all the old bad habits remain: unlawful killings, mental and physical torture of prisoners, overcrowding and pre-trial detention are rampant, and, of course, poverty abounds with the minimum wage of USD 35 per month.
The solution is obvious.
If we can get free elections and a new government in place, the European Union, in conjunction with other international bodies, particularly the African Union, can help nurture this country along on the road to democracy and the road to economic recovery. (FI) Mr President, since the transfer of power in March 2009, the political situation has continued to be unstable, and there have constantly been new disturbances in Madagascar.
Rajoelina's administration breaches human rights and oppresses its own citizens.
Right now, an attempt is being made to resolve this crisis, and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) has invited 11 Madagascan political parties to a summit in Botswana.
That is why the EU and the international community must intervene in the situation, and this illegal government headed by Rajoelina should be brought to an end. (PL) Mr President, the cause of the current political crisis in Madagascar was a military coup d'état, which forced the democratically elected President of Madagascar, Marc Ravalomanana, to resign and go into exile two years ago.
The talks also have fundamental significance for the restoration of funds to the country, which had payments of over EUR 600 million in EU development aid suspended.
Regarding the situation in Madagascar, the European Union may give its support to a process of reconciliation, but it must do so without intervening or interfering in matters which only the Malagasy people can decide.
It is important to value and follow up the efforts of the Southern African Development Community to resolve the conflict and find a political solution to the crisis in the country.
I think that it is vital to involve regional organisations in resolving these tensions in order to reach a political compromise. (RO) Mr President, the political crisis in Madagascar has led to this country being isolated on the international stage.
After 19 months of institutional crisis in the country, precisely on the day on which nearly 8 million Malagasy people were called on to vote on reforming the constitution, in November 2010, all hope of fashioning a genuine democracy in this former European colony was lost.
The EU should increase humanitarian aid for Madagascar, and targeted sanctions should be continued until a solution to the political crisis has been found.
We attach great importance to overcoming the ongoing political crisis and the economic and social effects on the population of Madagascar which are increasing the burden placed on the people on a daily basis.
Two days ago, on 7 June, talks began in Gaborone between the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and various players in the country, in order to find a way out of the crisis, which is based on neutrality and consensus, includes all the relevant groups, and can be supported both by the international community and by the broad majority of the citizens of Madagascar.
We are opposing all attempts to bring about a transition to a one-sided, 'de facto' government.
For this reason, the European Council decided last week to extend the measures imposed under the terms of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement by another six months.
