Textile names and related labelling of textile products (debate) The next item is the report by Toine Manders, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on textile names and related labelling of textile products - C6-0048/2009 -.
I refer, in this connection, to Mr Monti's report, which states that the problems in Europe are actually caused by the transposition of directives, which then end up with 12 or 27 different levels.
The objective of this regulation is to enable new textile fibres to be placed on the market more quickly.
Hence, we are talking about providing very simple information and, if consumers want to know more, they can obtain information on request; if this goes well, the Commission will choose the best way to be of service to the consumer.
I would like firstly to thank the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection for approving the report on 8 April.
The amendments proposed in this area relate to the proposal tabled in 2005 by the Commission, concerning the origin marking of many important product categories, including textile products.
I would also like to make some observations about other amendments.
With regard to the request to examine other labelling options for textile and clothing products, I am committed to setting up a wide-ranging and open debate with interested parties on all the other issues that have been raised during discussions in the European Parliament and the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, textiles constitute one of the key sectors in our European market.
The work that we have carried out in Parliament to date has certainly allowed us to broaden the original scope, introducing standards for other labelling requirements that we consider absolutely indispensable.
Despite our different political outlooks, we have managed to find real common ground that we hope represents the best way of protecting the interests of European citizens and of the European Union itself.
I therefore hope that tomorrow, we will have a united vote on this report, giving the Council a strong political signal for the tasks ahead of us in the second reading.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Manders and our fellow Members for their very constructive cooperation in connection with this proposal.
To this end, the European Parliament is trying, both through the report by Mr Manders that we have just heard, and by means of the work we are doing in the Committee on International Trade, to weave our web, so to speak, in order to achieve greater clarity for consumers and manufacturers alike.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I am speaking this evening on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for my group, Mrs McClarkin, who has also been much engaged in following this dossier.
They must also be clearly labelled, so that our citizens - who are always being described as responsible citizens - can also act accordingly.
However, we can have all the labelling measures in the world, but they will be of little use without the political will to redevelop a textile industry that creates jobs in Europe. (DA) Mr President, the textile industry is going through a period of dramatic change.
This is why I support many of the Commission's ideas but also support the calls for a more general scheme for the labelling of textile products.
We should view this as an opportunity to have the best legislation which will deepen and enhance the internal market. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Manders on his work on this report, as well as thank the other fellow Members who worked with him on it.
In the current context of a globalised world and emerging economies with ever-larger markets in which millions of products produced by millions of companies are in circulation, a commitment to innovation and the speed with which this innovation reaches consumers is absolutely crucial for companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This new regulation will definitely mean that these SMEs increase their market share and it will, in this way, contribute to employment in Europe. (EL) Mr President, there is an expression that says 'a man's life hangs by a thread'.
I am speaking specifically about 'Made in' origin marking.
It would certainly please me if we could find a solution here that genuinely prevents the regulation from being blocked. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the rapporteur, and also to the shadow rapporteurs, and to Commissioner Tajani, or should I say Vice-President Tajani, for the precise and accurate answers you have given us on key points.
Eighteen years ago, the University of Barcelona carried out a study that concluded that the textile industry would have disappeared from Europe by the year 2000.
I believe that we must all agree on this positive aspect that has emerged from this report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree on the approach of the proposal for a regulation under discussion today, especially the aspects concerned with cutting down on bureaucracy, with promoting a more innovative industry, with clarity and, above all, with the consumer - and I must emphasise this last aspect.
For this reason, I would like to emphasise the point about country of origin, because I believe it to be an indispensable feature: consumers today want to be informed, and surely country of origin is one of the most sensitive items of information that we can offer consumers.
We know, and consumers know, that countries outside the EU have - it pains us to say it, but we know it is true, and there is no point trying to hide it, ladies and gentlemen - less stringent rules, less stringent laws that are less sensitive to many of the aspects that many of my fellow Members have already reminded us about: working conditions, protection of minors, protection of women, protection of workers, but also awareness of standards, and of substances that are used.
I would like to remind you of one more thing: this is not a matter of protectionism, rather it is a question of creating a level playing field in the global market, since so many of our partners have already adopted this type of labelling, including the United States, Canada and Japan. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I have listened to the whole of the debate on the Textile Labelling Directive and the first thing I must state is that it is important to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) that consumers who want to have this information when purchasing textiles are indeed given it.
However, it is also important to have an idea of the social sustainability of what we are buying.
Someone has already said this - but I want to stress it again because I think that this is a specific point that must emerge from this discussion in the European Parliament - I want to know whether a given product is made in a place where workers are protected; I want to know whether that product involves the exploitation of children; I want to know whether that product is the result of unfair competition.
It is interesting that a pizza produced, for example, in Ireland could contain ingredients that come from 60 different countries.
It is very complex to get our labelling correct.
I do think we need to talk more about sustainable production and sustainable consumption across all of our lines - food and, indeed, textiles. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking the rapporteur, Mr Manders, and the shadow rapporteur, Mrs Comi, I would like, with all due respect, to disagree slightly with Mrs Rühle.
It is our duty to defend the competitiveness of our businesses on the world market, and we must prevent dumping within the European Union.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Manders report The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 22, 23, 26, 29, 33, 34, 35, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 52 and 61.
The Commission can accept Amendments 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 36, 40, 45,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 69, 70 and 72 in principle.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 19, 37, 38, 63, 68 and 71.
The objective of this proposal is to create better legislation for the future, as people are buying more and more over the Internet, and so we need an internal market that works, one in which 500 million consumers can obtain the information they desire in a fair manner.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Tuesday, 18 May 2010).
I therefore support the invitation addressed to the Commission to submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on any new labelling requirements within two years of implementing the new regulation.
Perhaps in future, however, people will simply need to delete their RFID number from Google Street View.
