Hence, I call on the European Parliament to adopt a common, strong and offensive position in favour of the introduction, at international level, of a tax on financial activities.
Europe must step up to the mark, and so must the European Parliament. (FR) Mr President, today, 14 February, St Valentine's Day, I would like to point out that one in five women in Europe is the victim of domestic violence.
In Europe, 40-50% of women have experienced sexual harassment in the workplace.
The European Parliament has repeatedly requested it, the Council has demanded it and the Commission has promised it, but where is the European strategy to combat violence against women?
On 7 February, they corrected their position.
It should also be said, however, that the exceptional criminal criteria applied in Spain against ETA have, on occasions, resulted in serious violations of fundamental rights.
Cereals are a very clear example of this: they are dominated by six large multinationals.
Ladies and gentlemen, the statistics are worrying: the World Health Organisation estimates that more than 300 million people involuntarily contract a sexually transmitted disease every year.
Similarly, only 50% of people over the age of 60 are still in work.
I urge the Commission and Member States to allocate as a priority financial resources to the measures which can generate jobs and promote industrial development across the European Union. (SK) Mr President, in November 2008, four-year-old Adam Azab, a citizen of the Slovak Republic and the European Union, was forcibly separated from his mother in Egypt.
We should also pay close attention to the thoughts of Cándido Méndez, one of the principle figures in the Spanish agreement, who attended the meeting of the Economic and Social Council on Tuesday, 8 February in Brussels.
We are therefore asking the Commissioner to address this Chamber on this question and to discuss it in the bosom of Parliament. (ES) Mr President, although the EU-Morocco Fisheries Partnership Agreement has been renewed for four years, the Protocol that establishes the fishing opportunities and returns expires on 28 February.
I therefore ask the Council to give the Commission a mandate at this meeting, and I ask the Commission to initiate conversations in the coming week in order to secure a new protocol with all the guarantees in place, and to arrive at a provisional extension of activity in order to ensure that it continues for a sufficient period of one or two years, in order to reach a final, entirely satisfactory agreement. (PL) Mr President, around a billion of the world's people are chronically undernourished or are starving.
Today, food prices are approaching those of 2008.
Unfortunately, it is being forgotten in the European Union that the common agricultural policy is principally a policy intended to secure the supply of high quality food at a suitable price to all European consumers.
A study by the London School of Economics proposes setting up a European instrument for crediting student exchange, which will result in greater interest on the part of the students.
The single period for catching this species of fish, which runs from early January to 31 March, is being frittered away by the 'do nothing' attitude of Commissioner Damanaki and her officials.
