Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for putting this issue up for debate today, because I think that it is worth discussing and I think we should start by stating the fact that our relationship with China - which we consider to be very important and strategic - has made enormous progress over the last number of years.
We have real concerns about the human rights situation in Tibet, about the fact that Tibet has remained largely closed to international media, diplomats and humanitarian organisations and also about the lack of progress in talks between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities.
However, we have always supported peaceful reconciliation through dialogue between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
The dialogue should also address the participation of all Tibetans in decision making.
The European Parliament would like to know in what way the EU Council could help create a mutually acceptable solution to the Tibet issue and ensure basic human rights and genuine autonomy for Tibetans.
On this last point, the Tibetan revitalisation plan for refugee settlements, drawn up by the central Tibetan administration in Dharamsala, presents the needs of the Tibetan community in exile and could be taken into account and supported by the European Commission.
We look forward to seeing Baroness Ashton inviting the Dalai Lama and meeting him in Brussels.
The appointment of an EU special coordinator for Tibet, which is mentioned in the EU budget, could be a useful tool in helping to define a common European position and strategy on Tibet.
They accepted the specific nature of Hong Kong being a country with two systems, so they should accept being a country with three systems.
We are also supporting - as is Mrs Andrikien- the creation of a coordinator for Tibet.
This is a battle for freedom which therefore concerns the identity of our continent.
When it comes to whether or not to renew the arms embargo on China, I think we should take this matter into account too. (FI) Mr President, I, too, strongly condemn the Spanish Presidency for walking out of this House.
In my opinion, it would be a very normal gesture if the European Union's High Representative also did something similar, as has been proposed here.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the fate of the people of Tibet and their remarkable Buddhist culture remains uppermost in the minds of those of us in this House who believe in human rights.
Since the Communist forces of the People's Republic of China (PRC) invaded 61 years ago, Tibetans have faced a systematic suppression of their unique way of life.
Beijing will undoubtedly dismiss our concerns in this Parliament as an unwarranted intrusion into their internal affairs, but a fresh and more relaxed approach to Tibet by the PRC could well pay dividends for China's internal security as well as its external image in the world.
The European Parliament should also listen to the Tibetan community.
I think that the debate this evening has shown an extraordinary consensus of view around Parliament on, for example, the appointment by the EU of a special coordinator for Tibet.
This week, Google has abandoned China.
Finally, can I just say that, if the EU will not appoint a special coordinator, I believe Parliament should appoint a rapporteur for Tibet. (PL) Madam President, the matter of Tibet and of the Tibetans continues, unfortunately, to be an important problem.
Several days ago, some schoolchildren were arrested for attempting to celebrate the anniversary of the uprising in Gansu and Kanlho.
This reminds me of the efforts of Polish Communists, who, 25 years ago, said the same about Lech Wałęsa.
I, too, subscribe to this appeal, because this request has been expressed many times in the European Parliament's resolutions on Tibet - the request for a special coordinator, who will have a real influence on the dialogue which is taking place between the Tibetans and the Chinese.
This is sad, indeed. (HU) Madam President, I am convinced that our image of the Tibetan processes is an oversimplified one.
China would be open to dialogue, open to an official representative of the European Union, be it Romano Prodi or Benita Ferrero-Waldner or Margot Wallström, serving as a mediator between the Dalai Lama and the Beijing leadership.
We also need a conception and mediation. (PL) Madam President, I greatly regret that this important and necessary debate is being held in the significant absence, or perhaps I should say the insignificant absence, of Mrs Ashton.
That is also an art, by the way, that is being exploited in Iraq and in Afghanistan, and one in which the United States has also found some support amongst a few Member States of this Union.
In fact, Catherine Ashton admitted yesterday during the meeting we had as part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the approach based on human rights dialogues needs to be reviewed.
I support the idea that Baroness Ashton should meet with the Dalai Lama and that the EU should provide for a special representative for Tibet after all. (SK) On 10 March, we commemorated the 51st anniversary of the uprising in Tibet, but also the second anniversary of the protests, both violently suppressed by the Chinese armed forces.
I am proud to announce that, from 9 March, a Friends of Tibet group will also be operating in the National Council of the Slovak Republic.
I believe that together, we can help to solve the Tibetan problem by mediating negotiations between top Chinese representatives and His Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama.
However, on the other hand, there have, in fact, already been very many such debates here, and we are very good at talking.
The only way in which the European Union can be consistent when it says that it is committed to human rights is by accepting that it must also bear a cost in terms of business and in economic terms.
For me, Tibet is an occupied country, and I believe that many other Members in this House, across all the groups, share this view.
I think that the interventions have underlined that these concerns remain real and legitimate more than 50 years after the Tibetan uprising on 10 March 1959.
I can inform you that the European Union welcomes the resumption of the dialogue between the envoys of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government, which was restarted again in September 2002.
In its political dialogue and in its further contacts with China, the EU's representatives regularly encourage China to use this process pragmatically in order to address all outstanding issues relating to Tibet.
We closely followed the latest development in this dialogue, and the dialogue between the Chinese Government and the representatives of the Dalai Lama is taking its course.
Since that time, the Tibetans have held over 200 peaceful protests, with the involvement of a variety of social groups, including teachers, students and intellectuals.
Recently, the Chinese authorities detained 30 pupils from a school in Machu, who, on the second anniversary of the events in Lhasa at the beginning of March, gave expression once again to their convictions and began a peaceful protest.
On 10 March 1959, the Tibetan people, in a revolutionary mood, defended their leader, but their initial enthusiasm was mercilessly crushed by the Chinese communist regime's 'peaceful liberation' that claimed several thousand civilian victims.
