The organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities (debate) The first item on the agenda is the report by Mrs Bauer, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/15/EC on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities - C6-0354/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (HU) The proposal put forward is intended to amend Directive 2002/15/EC in connection with social protection.
The directive itself and, hence, its amendment, are supplementary in nature and only apply to vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, like other laws applicable to road transport activities.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs voted against the amendment (30 to 19 votes).
Available statistical data and studies on accidents show that only 6% of accidents are caused by the fault of lorry drivers, and fatigue is cited as a reason in only 0.06% of cases.
Also, driving time, which has a real effect on road safety, is regulated by a different act of law, Regulation (EC) No 561/2006, which also applies to self-employed hauliers.
Loading time is of a supplementary nature and cannot be regarded as a significant part of working time, as the law does not apply, for instance, to journeys under 100 km.
Secondly, trade unions fear that self-employed hauliers could even work up to 86 hours if they are not regulated.
The regulation includes stringent rules on driving time.
It is capped at 45 hours per week for any two consecutive weeks, not to exceed 56 hours in any single week.
Discussions about the inclusion of self-employed drivers have been going on for a long time.
This is also the sense of the Commission proposal.
As regards road safety, let me stress that working time must not be mistaken for driving time.
The situation regarding the latter has radically changed since 1998.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would like to thank Mrs Bauer for her report and for her excellent work in recent months.
The fundamental issue is whether or not the working hours of self-employed workers in the transport sector should be regulated for the first time.
We need to tell those who cite shortcomings in road safety as justification for including self-employed workers that the rules on driving hours and rest times have long since been tightened up.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, the position of this group has been consistent throughout; my position as rapporteur has been consistent ever since 2002 when we first proposed the inclusion of self-employed and independent drivers.
It is quite possible under the existing regime for a self-employed, a 'false' self-employed, driver, to drive between 86 and 95 hours per week; perhaps not every week, but one week is enough of a danger in itself.
It is crucial to remember that all drivers, employed or self-employed, come under the 2006 driving time regulations which regulate their driving time, their break times and their rest periods.
Yes, there are issues relating to competition for self-employed, but this legislation will not deal with those matters.
For us in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs here in Parliament, there is no doubt at all.
This has been the industry's solution to avoid the working time regulations.
Office work does not form part of the regulation, and it is very important to establish that fact.
Finally, I would just like to say a few words to Mrs Bauer.
I would like to finish by saying that this is not about Mrs Bauer's negotiation methods; it is about people and it is about whether we want to ensure decent conditions in an increasingly pressurised transport industry.
If he fails to obtain it, 16 June will be a dark day in the history of the European Parliament.
The Commission's insistence since October 2008 on changing the 2002 directive is unacceptable.
We therefore call for the rejection of the Commission's proposal and compliance with the 2002 directive which, since 2009, should be being applied to self-employed drivers in order to combat social dumping, protect the right to health and rest for workers in the sector, and improve road safety conditions.
Europe must not encroach on the sphere of private enterprise and must respect the requests of our regions. (FR) Madam President, I am in favour of including self-employed drivers in the proposal for a directive, and I therefore reject both this proposal by the Commission and the Bauer report.
I am outraged by the way this proposal runs counter to the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises by introducing, from this day forward, unfair competition from false self-employed drivers.
This report introduces the practice of unfair competition and will allow it to develop with the growth in the number of false self-employed drivers.
The vote in committee was clear.
I hope that it will be just as clear in plenary. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Bauer, I am obliged first of all to talk about my profound disappointment with you for the way that you have carried out a negotiation in which Parliament was not respected and for the way that you are presenting this debate here today, which is very economical with the truth.
Mrs Bauer, I am very disappointed with the way in which you have carried out this debate and this negotiation. (DE) Madam President, we have heard a great deal already.
It is important for people in Europe to be able to decide how they want to work - whether as an employee or as a self-employed worker.
Digital tachographs are already present in all heavy goods vehicles and the equivalent vehicles that we are talking about here.
We want to protect small and medium-sized businesses, and in this case, we can do so by adopting the proposal. (DE) Madam President, the previous speaker described an ideal world in which drivers themselves decide whether they want to be self-employed or employees.
That is the big problem that we face here - and if what we have here is a private compromise between a Member of Parliament and the Council which is being presented as a general compromise and which does not give consideration to this issue, then we are playing into the hands of social dumping in Europe.
This area of work is already heavily regulated via the driving time regulations and to listen to people saying that people are driven into self-employed work is utterly ludicrous; it is a choice that people make.
However, for more than 150 years, it has been a principle of legislation on working hours that people are protected from working excessively long hours.
That applies to the self-employed just as much as to those in employment.
As a second point, on the matter of road safety, it has been asserted here that nothing can be done in this respect.
Thus, business will be lost and unemployment caused in the small business sector.
I request, as a minimum, that Mrs Bauer's proposals, which have never been examined in committee, be referred back to committee for consideration. (NL) Madam President, I support the Commissioner.
This has nothing to do with road safety, as driving times and rest periods are identical whether the worker is self-employed or employed.
This is an important question of principle.
I am on the side of Finnish owner drivers and in this case, that also means on the side of small business entrepreneurs all over Europe.
After all, there will be no growth or increased prosperity in Europe if administrative decisions prevent small business entrepreneurs from working. (Applause) (FI) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there must not, under any circumstances, be any restrictions put on the working time of self-employed drivers other than on their driving time.
The matter of road safety is addressed by restricting driving times and having compulsory rest periods, for which there is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council pertaining to road transport and driving times and rest periods in force, and that applies to all - yes all - lorry and bus drivers, including self-employed ones.
Restrictions on the working hours of entrepreneurs would favour large, supranational transport companies and would make it difficult for new transport firms to start up in business.
She also knows quite well that activities such as customer contact are neither subject to monitoring nor counted as working time in any case.
The objective must be to arrive at common, uniform ground rules at European level so that the same rules apply to all. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal and the position adopted by the rapporteur leave the Member States free to choose whether or not to include self-employed workers in the scope of the directive.
This optional arrangement is unacceptable and in conflict with EU competition rules.
By giving Member States freedom of choice, self-employed drivers in some countries that have already transposed the previous Directive 2002/15/EC would find themselves exposed to direct competition from those of their EU counterparts who are not subject to the same rules.
I believe we should exercise great care when it comes to introducing bureaucracy, because too much of it can cause harm and break this sector, especially at a time like this when we have a crisis on our hands which is having a negative impact on all European sectors.
I therefore congratulate Mrs Bauer for her report and for the compromises she has recommended.
I would like to appeal to all of us to be careful when we come to regulating the self-employed themselves. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the directive represents an important step in improving the health and safety of workers in this sector, but also in improving road safety and ensuring fair competition.
These are the words of the Commission itself when the directive was introduced on 23 March 2005.
It puts drivers' health and safety at risk.
This Parliament must stand up for citizens' safety and against those who want an unregulated transport sector.
Commissioner Kallas, go back to the drawing board. (DE) Madam President, I would like to agree with Mrs Morin-Chartier.
If self-employed workers were to be excluded from this directive again, then, in addition to their 56 hours of driving time, they would also be able to spend 28 hours loading and unloading.
It is obvious that what we are debating today is not the provisions on driving hours and rest times, which impact on road safety and are applicable to all professional drivers, be they employed or self-employed; rather, it is about the regulation of working hours.
It is primarily a regulation for the protection of employees - in other words, it is solely for the social protection of drivers and in no way serves road safety.
I rarely agree with the Commission but this would also be a welcome amendment.
Tomorrow's vote is an opportunity to show that you are not in favour of social dumping.
I have to say that I reject as utterly bogus the claims in this House this morning that this is about health and safety.
We are all concerned about health and safety and do not want to see any more accidents on our roads.
I would ask those Members who advocate that the directive should apply to all to apply it to themselves and to have a tachograph installed in their own cars - and then not to use their cars on Thursday evening when they go home after working here for 15 hours.
We do not have the studies mentioned here that self-employed drivers are regularly working 90 hours per week, and we think that the Driving Time Regulation, which we would like to enforce, will harmonise practices between Member States and will fulfil this task to ensure and improve road safety.
We do not have the information that they are more sick, and why do we sometimes think that small and medium-sized enterprises are behaving irresponsibly, that they do not care about road safety or about their own health, so they must be more regulated than others?
The Commission cannot support legislation which limits the freedom of entrepreneurs in the road transport sector to organise their working time, while in other sectors, entrepreneurs are not subject to similar working time restrictions.
rapporteur. - (HU) I would like to address five matters very briefly.
I would like to ask my fellow Members to take this into consideration as well.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 16 June 2010.
Written statements (Rule 149) I approve of the position adopted by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the rejection of the Commission's proposal and agree that in conjunction with Parliament, the Commission must take action so that a new improved proposal is submitted by the Commission in future.
I would like to stress that the Commission's proposal to remove self-employed drivers from the scope of the directive would represent a significant step backwards in EU social policy and in the area of transport.
In order to improve the working conditions of all drivers and ensure their social rights and guarantees and in order to improve road safety, as well as avoid unfair competition in the European road transport market, we cannot adopt the Commission's proposal such as it stands today.
This is a very sensitive issue, as it concerns our jobs both today and in the future.
It is a matter of road safety and of fair competition between companies in the Member States.
I would not accept social dumping within our Union itself.
We must protect our fellow citizens and our companies.
I therefore invite the European Commission to withdraw its proposal and, failing that, I call on MEPs, during tomorrow's vote in plenary, to vote in favour of keeping self-employed workers within the scope of working time legislation.
