Alternative investment fund managers (debate) The next item is the report by Jean-Paul Gauzès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Alternative investment fund managers and amending Directives 2004/39/EC and 2009/.../EC - C7-0040/2009 -.
Mr President, Mr Reynders, Commissioner, the text we are debating this evening, and which will be put to the vote in Parliament tomorrow, is the result of a long period of work.
On 30 April 2009, the European Commission published its proposal for a directive on alternative investment fund managers.
It has aroused obvious interest among Members of the European Parliament, as a record number of 1 690 amendments have been tabled.
Professionals have been involved very extensively and the rapporteur has had nearly 200 discussions on this text, not counting the discussions with national authorities.
Finalising the compromise text that is being debated today has been particularly hard work.
Half a dozen informal trialogues took place under the Spanish Presidency during the first half of 2010 in order to facilitate the exchange of information on the progress of the work.
On 17 May 2010, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, by a large majority, voted in favour of the report, which was the result of collective deliberation by Members of the European Parliament.
On 26 October 2010, the trialogue, which was to become conclusive, was held, with the active participation of the President of ECOFIN, Mr Reynders, and of Commissioner Barnier, and an agreement was reached on a compromise text which the rapporteur felt could be put to the vote in Parliament.
I would now like to emphasise the areas in which Parliament's intervention has been decisive.
That, Mr President, Mr Reynders, Commissioner, is what I wanted to say in opening the debate.
In closing, I shall take this opportunity of two minutes to thank all those who have contributed to this success. (Applause) Mr Gauzès, you can have as long as you like if you protect the interests of the City of London.
Thanks to what I hope will be your vote in favour, the managers of these funds will be subject to consistent and largely new rules with a view to increasing transparency as regards supervisors, investors, companies and workers of the companies acquired by some of these funds.
We had many discussions in trialogue meetings and other fora about this directive, and also about other texts.
From now on, Mr President, there will be a reliable and harmonised framework at European Union level for controlling and supervising the risks that alternative investment fund managers pose to their investors and to financial stability.
Every time I come to your House, Mr President, I thank you for the work that we have just accomplished, but I would like to thank you now already for the work that we are going to accomplish in the coming weeks.
Mr Gauzès, I hope that we will be able to work together at this same pace towards an agreement on the subject of credit rating agencies.
In any case, thank you for the work that has been done on this report. (Applause) Mr President, the first thing I will do is ask you to excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, for joining you a few minutes late.
The Belgian Presidency is so dynamic that, at the same time that this important debate is taking place here, the debate on this directive on alternative investment fund managers, we are having a debate in the Competitiveness Council on another important subject, the European patent, and so I have only just left the Council to come back here - I do not yet know in what condition, but I will do what I can.
I would like to thank and congratulate him, as well as all the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs, and of course, as Mr Reynders has just said, the Belgian Presidency and the whole team, for the very important and very tenacious work that has been accomplished over these last few weeks, and before it, by the other Presidencies.
The first element is the strengthening of the rules on private equity, which will increase the transparency of these activities in relation to employees of the companies targeted, and will introduce robust safeguards against asset stripping, as many of you wished, although I know that some of you think that this does not go far enough.
The second element is a truly European solution for third countries.
On behalf of the Commission, I would once again like to thank Parliament for its crucial cooperation and its contribution to this report, and I hope, like Mr Reynders, that we will be able to reach an agreement which is as broad as possible on this compromise, which, in our view, remains a dynamic compromise, and which enables us to maintain one of the commitments made at the G20: to learn the lessons of the financial crisis.
Mr President, Mr Reynders, Commissioner Barnier, we have already carried out a great deal of work - as Mr Gauzès said: 21 trialogues and numerous meetings between the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs.
The Commission's proposal for a directive was not easy to work with, but we have now found a common compromise that does not lump all funds and all fund managers together and that, at least in its approach, takes a differentiated view according to the systemic risk.
We cannot draw on past experience, particularly with regard to arrangements relating to third countries, but I think that we have made a good start towards providing an effective supervisory framework.
This is because we will have to wait until 2018 to have an internal market which imposes the same duties and obligations and also confers the same rights on all funds.
The European regulation will be implemented from 2013.
There will be an increase in the powers of the European regulator ESMA, to which the directive will grant no fewer than 72 intervention and supervision powers.
It must be stressed that this directive is the first European legislative act to regulate hedge funds and private equity.
It will ensure considerable protection for investors - not just professional investors, but also citizens investing their savings in financial products.
The directive will impose more transparency on private equity funds.
I welcome this, and I have to correct Mr Goebbels: We wished to send the original proposal back because we believed that the alternative investment funds were so different - hedge funds, private equity funds and property funds - that they each need to be regulated separately.
The all-embracing approach that we found disturbing at first has been amended in respect of key elements.
Personally, I am in favour of rules that all fund managers operating in the EU have to abide by.
Mr President, this regulation of alternative investment fund managers provides, firstly, a little more in the way of transparency and rules in this impenetrable jungle of hedge funds and alternative investment funds.
It is not possible for us to stand before our electorate with our heads held high and say that we have succeeded in regulating this netherworld effectively.
I would like to say a big thank you once again, particularly for the cooperation with my fellow Members in Parliament.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, may I start by praising the hard efforts of Commissioner Michel Barnier?
Especially when it came to issues such as the scope, it seemed to be a one-size-fits-all directive, with the same rules for all sorts of funds - not just hedge funds and private equity but also investment trusts in the UK, which have existed for 150 years with no systemic risk.
I would like to thank him specifically for his excellent work and cooperation.
The original compromise stated that managers were obliged to inform their workforce of what they intended to do with the companies in which they had invested.
Mr President, let me first of all congratulate Mr Gauzès for a responsible and listening leadership in this difficult process.
I would like to reiterate, not least for the benefit of colleagues who are saying that they will vote against this report tomorrow - this might seem so obvious that it should not be said, but sometimes the obvious things need to be said - that private equity and dynamic financial markets are not only important for a competitive economy, they are crucial.
I think it is important that we have reduced the scope, so that we are not dealing with what were industrial companies now that we have made an exemption for holding companies.
All in all, as always, things could have been better, but the important thing is that now we have the preconditions for dynamic, financial markets which are good for the European economy. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I listen to this debate, I have to admit that it reminds me very much of the debate on the Services Directive.
The putting in place of a passport regime for alternative investment funds, to operate across the entire EU alongside a single rule book governing their operations, should be another valuable piece in the creation of a true single market in financial services for Europe and should be welcomed by the industry in its current modified form.
As a former UK regulated fund manager, I now hope that this will soon become the mark of high quality in regulation for investors worldwide, as UCITS has been in the past and continues to be across the globe.
Largely as a result of the European Parliament's efforts, all funds that are sold in the European Union will effectively be subject to similar rules.
Consequently, it will be much harder to market European products in the rest of the world because they will be less flexible and more expensive.
The new common measures contribute to replacing the 27 different national systems of today and to strengthening the opportunities for the single market.
Alternative funds therefore benefit from a European passport, independent of their place of registration.
I support the submitted proposal, and I would like to emphasise that we do not thereby wish to restrict the entry of alternative investment funds from third countries into the countries of the European Union, but to set out unified conditions which must be met, not only by the alternative investment funds, but also by the third countries in which they are based.
Firstly, I would like to thank the representatives of the European Commission and the rapporteurs for a very important document.
The European Union must lead by example. (GA) Madam President, like the other speakers I would like to congratulate Commissioner Barnier, the Belgian Presidency and Jean-Paul Gauzès on the good work they have done.
Now, 60 years on, we are saying the same arising out of the economic crisis and the failure of supervision and regulation.
The European Securities and Markets Authority will be the supervisory body.
The bonus regulation that we have introduced for bank managers will also be extended to hedge fund managers in order to ensure sustainability here and to minimise the risk.
I would like to thank Parliament for its incredibly constructive approach during these rather lengthy negotiations, as evidenced by the debate that we have just had.
These rules will play a vital role in achieving a range of ambitious objectives and making real progress - the word used by Mr Bullmann earlier to describe the work done by this Parliament in conjunction with the Council and Commission.
I would like to remind all those who hoped to go further, that this is a compromise, a dynamic compromise.
Nevertheless, I would like to express my thanks to the whole Commission team who worked with me and are here this evening, and I would also like to add my voice, both personally and on behalf of the European Commission, to the chorus of thanks and gratitude addressed to the rapporteur, Mr Gauzès, in honour of his excellent work. (Applause) Madam President, I am not going to repeat everything that Mr Barnier has just said - I had my say earlier - but I would like to thank everybody who has spoken in support of the proposed text, and also those who have made comments which show, all the same, that this text has real substance, which will enable us to make progress at European level in the regulation of all these alternative investment funds.
To conclude, I would like to make two points.
I am delighted that the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the European Conservatives and Reformists have joined us now that a compromise has been reached and hence, I am delighted that Mr Klinz and Mr Kamall have co-signed with me the amendment that replaces the initial report.
Particular thanks go to Mr Barnier for his considerable involvement in this dossier: he knows how much I appreciate him.
I know it is unusual, but I would also like to thank Ugo Bassi, with whom I have had a very fruitful working relationship during this time, and so the text is also the result of work done within the Commission.
For our part, we have the committee vote on 22 November, the vote in Strasbourg in December, and then, if the Council is ready, we will be ready. (Applause) The debate is closed.
Having stated in September that it was determined to supervise the markets, the European Parliament has today, 11 November, sent another powerful message to the rest of the world.
I maintain the view, which was also expressed during the discussions prior to the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the Commission's proposal is a serious mistake and conveys a glaring lack of understanding about the role of investment funds (private equity and hedge), as well as confusion between banks as the institutions guilty of triggering the financial crisis, these closed-ended investment funds and the open-ended investment funds (mutual funds).
Behind the well-meaning principles, which have unfortunately been adopted by fellow Members who do not understand what financial management and macro-economics mean, lie hidden regulations which not only have nothing to do with preventing a new crisis, but will actually do nothing more than increase the costs of operating an alternative investment fund in an unjustified and absurd manner, which will be reflected in lower capital, smaller returns and fewer investments.
Creating a European internal market for alternative fund administrators will help limit systemic risks and provide better protection for investors, in keeping with the new European economic supervisory structure.
in writing. - I support this piece of legislation regulating hedge funds and private equity.
While much more remains to be done in the field, this is an important step towards better regulation of the activities of alternative investment fund managers, which was met with opposition even after the 2008 financial crisis hit hard, most notably by Charlie McCreevy, the Internal Market commissioner in charge at the time.
Once the new European supervisory authority becomes fully functional, fund managers will not be able to market their products in the European Union unless they hold a European passport certifying full compliance with this directive.
The present report relates to the Rasmussen and Lehne reports, both from 2008, and deals with the proposal for a directive on alternative investment fund managers.
I myself thought that its biggest weakness was that it mixed two product clusters - different in terms of their nature and therefore their risks - in the same directive.
The European passport, in particular, will authorise managers to operate throughout the European Union without having to be registered separately in each Member State.
Therefore, we must support with conviction the political agreement that has come about following 14 months of negotiations.
