For a long time now, our data has not just been stored in one Member State, but is spread throughout the European Union.
Especially since we do not even know what data they are talking about, what security standards are being maintained, whether duplicate data is possibly being forwarded, or even whether data is being forwarded that we would not allow to be forwarded at European level.
We now have databases within the European Union that collect data on all kinds of citizens at a central point and to which many authorities in European countries have access.
First, we had Secure Widespread Identities for Federated Telecommunications (SWIFT), and now Passenger Name Record (PNR).
Someone has to stand up and defend the rights of the 500 million European citizens.
author. - (DE) Mr President, representatives of the Commission, I urge you to take this question that we have asked extremely seriously, because what we are concerned with here is the fundamental matter - as has just been said - of whether there is any point in working on data protection provisions if, at the same time, agreements are being negotiated behind the back of the European Parliament, and perhaps even behind the backs of the national parliaments, that undermine these standards.
As Parliament, we have repeatedly made clear over many years that we consider it important in all these measures - whether it is the forwarding of PNR data or access to SWIFT banking data - that there are generally applicable data protection principles that can also be implemented at an individual level.
This is something that is constantly being neglected.
For this reason, as Parliament, we have also made it clear that we want to have general standards that are applicable throughout the EU and which are then agreed with the US.
I was rapporteur for the EU's framework agreement with the US and I feel obliged to say that it is highly important that this applies not just to EU agreements by the Member States, but also to Member States' agreements.
This includes the categories of data that are covered by them.
However, the Commission - and I am coming to our responsibility now - has ensured that the United States would not request bilateral arrangements with the Member States on the exchange of PNR data since this was a matter falling within EU competence under the relevant EU-United States PNR agreement.
I must confess that there seems to me to be only one explanation for this: it shows that the Commission is in a weak position and means that the concerns that Parliament has expressed on this matter make complete sense.
That is precisely what we expect from our relationship with the people of the US and with US policy, and we would like the Commission and the Council to place greater emphasis on this. (DE) Mr President, as soon as the SWIFT agreement had been negotiated, it became clear that what had been sold to us as data protection was, in fact, an embarrassing case of Europeans having pulled the wool over their own eyes.
It is clear that the US does not give a fig about agreements.
At the last plenary session, we had to make the Commission aware of the USD 14 entry fee.
Personally, I do not have a problem with transferring selected personal data on European citizens, such as air passengers, to developed democratic countries, but it must take place in accordance with all legal provisions in a way that can be examined by an independent body, such as Members of Parliament or judges. (SK) Transfer of citizens' personal data is always a sensitive issue, be it from the civil perspective or the human rights perspective.
It is the United States that is the main collector of personal data, collecting data relating to European Union citizens both on the basis of agreements with the European Union and on the basis of bilateral agreements made with individual countries.
In our relationship with the US, we must therefore apply reciprocity and painstakingly ensure that the rules are acceptable to us Europeans too, and that European data or the data of EU citizens are shared in accordance with the rules that are in force in Europe.
I would like to inform you - and I am talking about facts here, not dreams - that we have already asked the Council, as you are well aware, for this is not something new.
I understood that such is your proposal and my reply is very simple: we have to respect the Lisbon Treaty.
I was also very clear that we have asked the United States - and we have sent letters and are still negotiating on this - to agree that the bilateral agreements cannot refer to PNR data.
That is the way we can do things, so the Commission is going in that direction: we are now negotiating with the United States and we are trying to have an agreement that is binding on the Member States.
What we can say is that we are going to negotiate and afterwards try to bind them to our track.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I agree with you that we have to take all the concerns on board and I agree with you that there is an area of concern.
If we are successful and really have protection of personal data in our agreement, then we have asked the Council to commit to this.
