The aim of this report is to at least open up the debate and put a few questions on the table that we feel are important.
The current economic and social crisis has particularly serious consequences for women, and this exacerbates inequalities and discrimination.
Unfortunately, the proposals contained in the Europe 2020 strategy presented by the Commission did not deal with the gender perspective in a satisfactory way.
However, this goes beyond a single area of the European Commission, and there needs to be much greater involvement.
I am certain that, with the commitment shown by Mrs Reding to the work to promote equality, we have an opportunity to produce such a charter together with the Commission.
No, women, and our citizens in general, are more intelligent than that.
We must take into account that even though gender equality is an absolute requirement for exercising fully our basic human rights and a fundamental principle of the European Union, inequalities persist in the political sphere and in women's lives.
I have been working on these matters - these problems that you have highlighted here this afternoon - for the last six months on behalf of the Spanish Presidency of the Council, and for some years before that on behalf of the Commission.
We have also asked the Commission to study the legal basis for possible new legislative instruments to enable us to combat these offences more effectively in all our Member States.
In order to overcome all these inequalities in our labour markets, which represent a genuine obstacle to collective progress, the target of a 75% employment rate by 2020 will have to take both men and women into account.
I am convinced, and with this I will conclude, Mr President, that the debate on the crisis and economic recovery must not make us stray from strengthening our European social model.
That was exactly the reason why, for the first time in its history, the Commission started its five-year mandate with an opening statement, as it has been called, with a Charter which is a political commitment of each member of the Commission to advance equality between men and women within his or her portfolio and thus, a commitment by the Commission as a whole to have gender equality high on the agenda.
I have already drawn attention to this issue in the latest annual report on equality between women and men, underlining that this crisis affects women more than the previous recessions did because women now participate more in paid employment and are often at the weak end of the job chain.
I believe that the crisis is a unique opportunity to implement the policies which will make the labour market and our society more gender-equal in the future.
That is why I believe that women need to be helped in order for the 2020 strategy to have a positive result.
We will have to have a real road map regarding how we want to implement the very concrete elements between 2010 and the end of our mandate - your mandate as European parliamentarians and my mandate as European Commissioner.
Something which was said in this Chamber, and which is absolutely right, is that we could write a gender equality strategy now, but they must be put into practice in the Member States.
I therefore underline the report on the new strategy drafted by Mrs Figueiredo.
Our common judicial area must be an area where victims feel treated with dignity, respect and a high standard of protection and support, not only in one domain but in many domains.
You are right: women are, except in university studies, severely under-represented in decision-making positions at all levels, both in public and in private companies.
Finally, primarily tools ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Martínez Lozano, in a recent article published in Time, entitled The New Sheriffs of Wall Street, it states that in the US, women do not run Wall Street, nor are they to blame for this financial crisis, but that, in the face of the situation brought about through the lack of regulation of financial market, it is they who are now being called upon and appointed to positions of leadership in order to clean up the mess caused by their male managers.
This is interesting.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank both rapporteurs and tell them that my group will wholeheartedly endorse both reports because they deal with a very important issue, gender equality, the importance of which I think is also demonstrated by the rich choice of subjects covered by both reports.
The dossiers are complex and the inclusion of issues which are Member State competences, such as public expenditure in the area of health, does not help matters.
In this regard however, there are, unfortunately, also some negative anomalies, like Austria, my home country.
We have over a hundred thousand reasons for acting now, without delay; all we need is the political will. (ET) In the last five years, we have indeed achieved the success referred to in the area of women's and men's economic independence, with the employment rate among women reaching almost 60%.
However, I am not particularly thrilled about the fact that the majority of women, at least in Hungary, my home country, are not aware of their rights and cannot enforce them.
This charter is contributing to a paradoxical development in the European Union.
We therefore urgently need to take account of this problem and to conjugate the various austerity plans adopted by the European Union and its Member States in the feminine too.
The very independence of women is at stake. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, the European Union, partly in a bid to combat the economic crisis, has forced my country, Italy, to comply with the obligation for women employed in the public sector to retire at the age of 65, thereby making their retirement age equal to that of men.
The crisis-related budget cuts in various States are an unavoidable reality.
It is the responsibility of individual governments also to look at the matter from this perspective when planning cost-cutting budget measures and their impacts, and to select a carefully balanced approach when placing burdens on the population at large. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that in our opinion, the report on the assessment of the results of the 2006-2010 Roadmap for Equality between men and women, which is aimed at influencing the strategy on this issue in future, could have been more assertive and less polemic.
That is why there needs to be stronger strategic commitment from the Member States at the level of local and regional authorities and Community institutions in matters regarding the protection ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) The gender aspects of the economic crisis, the road map for gender equality and the Charter for Women's Rights are three topics with a common denominator: the status of women in society.
I look forward to a women's rights charter here in Europe which can hopefully become a model to be implemented right throughout the world. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs - whom I thank - have raised a key issue, which Commissioner Reding has also addressed in part.
We must ensure that policies for women and for equal opportunities are incorporated and integrated more effectively into general policies at European and national level alike.
A new policy of which women must be made more aware is contained in Mrs Figueiredo's report.
The second issue is that of the Commission's support for the draft directive on the European Protection Order, which is a tool of fundamental importance for guaranteeing the ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, in recent years and decades, the European Union has been at the vanguard of equal treatment of women and men.
In the Women's Charter presented by the Commission, I see an indispensable contribution towards equality between women and men in the European Union.
Women's issues are society's issues and concern everyone.
However, we must put a stop to the discrimination of women, both within and outside our society, and we must take decisive action on this front. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, the reason why I have asked to speak is that I expect you, Commissioner, to be able to set out for us a proper track record at the end of this parliamentary term.
It is therefore also necessary to focus on this element, and to look for a solution in this area. (DE) Mr President, we all see eye to eye on this issue and I believe that that is beyond doubt in every respect.
We should make sure that we always include and take into account the equality issue in all reports that we discuss here in Parliament.
In other words, the concern I am trying to put across to you is that, in the Europe 2020 strategy, we should emphatically re-introduce the issue of gender mainstreaming and make sure that gender budgeting becomes a matter of course in the future, because only then will we be able to ensure that we can implement in Europe everything that we are wishing and calling for today, in the future as well.
The Spanish Presidency of the Council has 15 days left before it hands over to the Belgian Presidency.
The third question I wish to address very briefly as well is my belief that it is important to underline the fact that, in order for us to achieve the 75% employment target by 2020, not only for men, but for women as well, it is important to understand that this means adopting active measures to promote and encourage women to play a larger role in the public sphere, and also measures to encourage and oblige men to play a larger role in the private sphere.
Compared to the statistics dating from before the economic crisis was unleashed, we are facing in the EU a 50% rise in the number of poor in just two years.
The budgets for care services and leave provision have been particularly hard hit, which has serious, adverse repercussions, including on children.
I believe that gender equality in the economy is extremely important for rural development and that the measures being implemented as part of Pillar 2 on this issue must also be retained in the future CAP.
According to Spanish Member Mrs Valenciano, cows are better protected in the EU than women.
We suffer discrimination in every area of life.
For example, in Poland, the restriction of human rights is tolerated in relation to women.
However, it was improving, despite difficult and perpetually unsolved problems such as differences in pay for the same work and under representation in managerial positions in business.
