It is my belief that the European Union will welcome this major agreement. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express my profound alarm at the rapidly worsening situation of fellow Poles in Lithuania.
There are almost 300 000 Poles in Lithuania, in regions where they make up 60-80% of the population, but they are not entitled to use their mother tongue as an auxiliary language in official situations.
I want to report that in the south of the Union, in the industrious and enterprising city of Valencia, there is an historic marine quarter called Cabañal, which could be destroyed by a plan that the council wants to implement after abandoning the area for almost 20 years.
This is why I believe that both the European Commission and European Parliament must support this government with financial assistance, which must be granted as quickly as possible, as well as through the expertise the European Union has to offer in the various areas targeted for reform, such as justice or the economy. (PL) Mr President, unfortunately, I am having to speak, once again, about the situation of the Polish minority in a Member State of the European Union - Lithuania.
It might seem that if a state does belong to the European Union it should observe all European standards.
As a result of action taken by the Lithuanian education authorities, around 100 Polish school classes are to be closed.
Last year, I had the pleasure of seeing the Shen Yun Show in London.
Its purpose is to revive interest in and to illustrate traditional Chinese culture, a culture of course that the Chinese Communist Party and government have done their best to destroy over the last 60 years.
If that is the case, this was a flagrant abuse of EU passports to commit a crime in a third country and particularly a breach of trust where Ireland is concerned because, ever since we got our independence in 1922, we have been a neutral and friendly country thus allowing our citizens to travel, maybe more freely, in places where other people would not be allowed to travel.
A major concern is that when I wrote to the previous Commission on this, they were basing their policy on 2006 figures from Eurostat.
These worries I wanted to share with you. (PL) Mr President, I would like to refer to the situation of national minorities in Lithuania, where their rights are continually being reduced.
In Lithuania, in areas populated by concentrations of national minorities, there is a general ban on the use of bilingual information signs, which have been used for 20 years.
Wilia, the oldest traditional Polish song and dance group in Lithuania, has had its government funding reduced to a quarter of its former level, and three full-time positions have been closed, leaving only one.
Mr President, Mr Tremosa i Balcells raised the issue of low-cost production in agriculture and it is an issue which I have huge concerns about, as do many others in this House.
However, I am more concerned about the Commission and how they view agriculture, rural areas and indeed the food industry because, in the EU 2020 strategy, they seem to have almost forgotten about this vital sector of the European Union.
Instead of costly and administratively-demanding visas, Canada should, if anything, think hard about these conditions. (ES) Mr President, as you know, on 11 February, Parliament said no to the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme, the SWIFT programme.
In any case, Mr President, if these negotiations do take place, I demand that the European Parliament plays a role in the negotiations, a demand that I think all of us share. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 February in Villasanta, Lombardy, an exceptional discharge of hydrocarbons from a tank in a disused refinery resulted in massive contamination of the nearby River Lambro.
In south-western Europe, for example, Macaronesia (the Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands and Cape Verde) faces various shared challenges, and so a strategy for this region would improve communication systems, preserve the environment, promote growth, scientific exchange, job creation and security, and facilitate the fight against illegal immigration.
This would also allow these regions, which have a high potential for tourism, to be included in the objectives of the trans-European networks, which aim at expanding towards the edges of Europe. (PL) Despite the fact that many economists and politicians have already announced the end of the crisis in Europe, we are still struggling with its negative consequences.
I think we should have a rule that we should know at least two hours in advance who will take the floor in the one-minute speeches.
Our people back in our country, in the UK, are fed up with this nonsense because we cannot speak up for their rights and their issues.
If I am going to be here at 10 o'clock at night on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday night, then we should at least be given a chance to speak on important issues relating to our Member States.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - This is a period for critical decisions in the EU and Belarus relationship.
