Radio spectrum policy (debate) The next item is the report by Gunnar Hökmark, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on radio spectrum policy - C7-0270/2010 -.
I am very grateful for this because we are discussing today a proposal that can enable Europe to recover the lead in mobile telephony, mobile Internet and modern information technology.
In this report, I have proposed that we stick to the date of 2013 with regard to the 800 MHz band.
I must say a word of thanks from my side, in particular, to the rapporteur, Mr Hökmark, for the hard work that he has done on the first radio spectrum policy programme.
This is about information and technology and it is about making up your mind what position Europe should take: the far East, the far West, in between, there are a couple of important players in this game, but Europe can indeed be the number one.
It is quite clear from this report that Parliament shares the Commission's view on the importance of a coordinated and effective spectrum policy to meet broadband targets.
And indeed it is vital to maintain and improve Europe's economic and competitive position and to maximise its social and cultural impact by enabling innovative services for the benefit of citizens.
Digital television and wireless broadband can develop successfully in parallel and we should not forget that broadband Internet access also offers high cultural and social value.
Just through preparing the whole debate, I am, of course, already in contact with certain ministers in certain Member States that are even more confronted with the neighbouring country aspects.
The Commission particularly welcomes and agrees with the position taken in the report on a couple of issues.
Another issue again involving just a nuance: while the compensation of migration costs by Member States is a very important issue - no doubt about that - it must be in conformity with State aid rules.
Number one: for spectrum already technically harmonised, an obligation to authorise its use by 2012 should not be replaced by the softer obligation to make such spectrum available.
The Committee on Culture and Education had therefore proposed that the 790 band not be opened in the first instance, but unfortunately, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy did not follow our suggestion.
The result of all this work was the unanimous backing that this report received in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
We are talking about the 700 MHz frequency band, which also has an extraordinary capacity for mobile telephony and its development.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to give our verdict at first reading on the draft radio spectrum policy programme, and I should like to thank the Commission for having supported and transformed this proposal, which was first tabled during our debates on the telecoms package.
I should also like to commend our rapporteur, Mr Hökmark, as well as my fellow shadow rapporteurs, for our good cooperation on a report which reveals some major political issues hidden behind its highly technical aspects.
Although not all the compromises tabled and adopted in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy are as balanced as I personally would have liked, I support very sincerely the general move to develop a spectrum management approach that is more integrated, realistic and responsive to the social, cultural and economic needs of our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, better and less expensive data transmission through high-speed broadband for all in 2020: that is an ambitious policy target, I must say, and I fully support it.
And let us be clear: broadband for all is not only about making sure that everyone has a Facebook profile.
As far as we are concerned, then, no stakeholder, whoever he or she may be, can claim to have a kind of pre-emptive right, a kind of vested right, over spectrum, and I believe that this is something that is established in this report.
I know that this is not the subject of the report, but I believe that we will have to monitor this issue very closely because our fellow citizens are affected. (DE) Madam President, Mrs Kroes, the spectrum is a valuable and limited resource that must be managed with care and foresight, taking into account society as a whole.
The telecoms package adopted last year must form the basis of our radio spectrum policy because it also stipulates that the spectrum management of the EU and its Member States must take equal account of cultural, social and economic interests.
Further opening of the UHF band, particularly below 800 MHz, should therefore only be considered after taking into account our experience with white spaces in this band.
When allocating frequency bands, the various different interests must be weighed against each other in a responsible manner.
We must set the correct course for technical development and for Europe's position in the area of digital information technology and cultural diversity. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, we should certainly congratulate ourselves today on holding this debate.
This draft report broadly supports the European Commission's proposal, in particular, on the need to make available, by 1 January 2013, the 800 MHz band freed up by the changeover to digital television and the complete cessation of analogue television broadcasting.
Nevertheless, I would like to highlight two aspects that I feel are important, Mrs Kroes, Mr Hökmark.
In keeping with the decision, the Commission, together with Member States, will produce an inventory of existing spectrum use and of possible future spectrum requirements in the Union, in particular, in the range from 300 MHz to 3 GHz.
We used the amendments tabled to request a bridging of the digital divide so that all EU citizens have access to the broadband communications infrastructure at no less than 30 Mbps by 2020, and that opportunities are secured for both the commercial sector and public services by means of increased broadband capacities.
The review of the system for managing radio frequencies at European level is very important, and I believe that we must clearly prevent the accumulation of frequency rights and the creation of monopolies and oligopolies, which unfortunately exist in some European countries and which are becoming stronger and gaining a foothold in the broadcasting sector.
To conclude, unfortunately I do not have the time to expand on the social aspects, but they have been discussed at great length by all the members of my group. (NL) Madam President, Mrs Kroes, today we are celebrating Europe Day.
In 2013, 800 MHz will be freed up, in 2015, 1 200 MHz, and that is badly needed if Europe wants to remain amongst the global frontrunners.
For if we do not assume our responsibility and take a clear line, then we can forget what was said earlier by Ms Toia: we need to be aware that in 2020 - and we set this out in the Digital Agenda - every European should be able to pursue his or her interests via what are ultimately spectrum opportunities.
This is a win-win situation, and in freeing the 800 MHz band, we took the option which affected the least amount of spectrum, so we can see that as step one on our journey.
To look backwards for a moment: who could have imagined 15 years ago what is at stake today?
Had we waited 15 years ago, and hesitated in taking decisions as politicians, we would have failed.
With regard to deadlines and what has been and is at stake, it is clear, to me at least, that 2013 is not too early.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I think we need to be aware that we are talking about a part of society which is developing extremely rapidly.
That is why it is important to make the point that, in discussing the 700 MHz band, we are not saying anything more than that we shall have the opportunity to take decisions later on the best way of using it.
In the global world of competition and knowledge, the only way to win is to be number one, and that should be our aim.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 11 May 2011.
