Europeana - the next steps (short presentation) The next item is the short presentation of the report by Helga Trüpel, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on Europeana - the next steps -.
It is a digital library, a digital museum and a digital archive for our European cultural heritage.
It has 150 partner organisations.
So far, around 6 million works from our European cultural heritage have been digitised.
There is no problem in respect of works that are no longer subject to copyright or that are in the public domain.
I wish that each one of us in this Chamber could say that the works of great national creators, such as in my case Chopin, Marie Curie née Skłodowska or Słowacki, could be available on the Internet.
Firstly, in the case of Europeana, we cannot allow a reduction in quality.
Europeana can become a successful project for the European Union as long as it is built on the EU's values and ideals and provides the focal point for European cultural information. (FI) Mr President, to begin with, I would like to thank Mrs Trüpel for this excellent report.
This is another kind of project that we need in Europe, because the European Union is regarded as a community of values, but it is also a strong cultural community.
We have 27 different Member States which have an extremely rich and varied culture.
This means, as Neil Postman has shown in his superb book Amusing Ourselves to Death, that the visual culture is devaluing public debate and making us poorer citizens.
This is where we all need to develop our role, to explain how important this project is to our national governments and the citizens of the Member States, so that this project has an impact and we can all make use of it in the best possible way in the medium term. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would once again like to offer my sincere thanks to Mrs Trüpel for the truly excellent report that we are debating today.
A significant prerequisite for this is, in the view of my group, the free - and that means also, as far as possible, cost-free - access to our cultural heritage via Europeana.
For my own country, this means that it is not acceptable for Goethe to be available in Polish and French, but not in the original German.
In this regard, we must all jointly call on the Member States more strongly to once again provide the appropriate financial resources to make Europeana a real success on this level as well. (RO) Bearing in mind the benefits offered to the European Union's citizens through having access to Europeana, I believe that existing digital content must be made available in all the European Union's official languages.
