The Seventh Framework Programme for Research provides for EUR 886 million per annum for energy research.
The communication described how the money for the most important low-carbon technologies should be apportioned so that Europe can move away from its heavy dependence on fossil fuels to a stronger reduction in CO2 emissions.
The final plan estimates EUR 6 billion for research into wind energy, which, according to the Commission, could make up a fifth of EU energy provision by 2020; EUR 16 billion for solar energy, in order to develop new photovoltaic concepts and a major industrial concentration of solar energy facilities; EUR 9 billion for bio-energy research, in order to cover 14% of the EU's energy needs.
In order to integrate renewable energy sources into the energy market, electricity grids would receive EUR 2 billion so that half of the grid would be able to operate on the basis of a 'smart grid' principle.
Apart from renewable energy sources, a further EUR 13 billion is envisaged for up to 12 projects in the field of carbon capture and storage, while nuclear research would receive EUR 7 billion.
Thirdly, given the scale of medium-term public-private financing needed in order to support major demonstration projects in particular, it may be necessary to increase the proportion of public investment at EU level.
Parliament's report on the SET Plan of June 2008 was very clear in proposing an appropriate level of ambition.
Our estimate of the public and private investment needs for the development of low-carbon technologies in the SET Plan is EUR 8 billion per year.
Today about EUR 3 billion are being invested annually in the European Union, which means that a further EUR 50 billion is needed for the period 2010-2020.
At current prices this is approximately EUR 4 billion.
Other technologies that deserve European-level intervention will certainly emerge over time, so the SET Plan must remain flexible, as we have already shown with the new initiative on energy efficiency - Smart Cities - which we expect to launch, as I said, in 2011.
SETIS, as this is called, is already working on storage and ocean technologies to assess their potential and identify the best opportunities for European intervention.
I welcome the question put by my colleague, Mr Reul, who is right, Commissioner, to question you on how the Commission views this crucial issue of noncarbon energies and of the financing of new technologies.
We will need 40% more energy in 2030, and I would add that 80% of this consumer demand will come from countries outside the OECD.
When it comes to nuclear energy, we have Member States that have a long tradition in these matters.
That does not make the European Union privileged, but it does mean that we have a duty to contribute to the debate and to the financing.
Secondly, if we want to create the jobs our economy needs in order to emerge from the crisis, it is vital that we boost the demonstration stage of innovative technologies and make it easier for them to be put into operation in the market.
So how can it be that we are designing a SET Plan - and earmarking money at EU level - that basically gives a lower share to renewables than the market is already uptaking today, while diverting the money to carbon sequestration and to nuclear fusion, which is not addressed in this paper but which receives by far the largest share of EU money?
Thirty to thirty-five per cent of CO2 greenhouse gas reductions will come from renewables, while at best only 10% will come from carbon sequestration and 10% from nuclear.
So, even in Europe, in terms of how we allocate money we are behind what the IEA is telling governments.
The only way out is to set clear priorities.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I have to express some regret at the obsession on the left side of this Parliament with nuclear energy, which has meant that we have two resolutions before the House today, most of the content of which has much in common except for this issue of nuclear energy, particularly when it is the only proven technology to supply large volumes of ultra low-carbon electricity in Europe.
Therefore, in terms of counting on public-private partnerships, which is what systematically happens when we talk about low-carbon technologies, we surely have one certainty: not knowing where the money comes from and knowing that there are public-private partnerships, we know, from the outset, who will pay.
We are currently at a point where we have to say really clearly that we can produce another SET plan and that we can adopt another SET plan, but what we need now are tangible measures.
So the timetable is very tight and meeting that 2015 deadline becomes more and more difficult.
Let them put their money where their mouth is. (PL) Madam President, the resolution which has been presented illustrates very well the dominance of climate policy over energy security in the European Union.
Thank you for your attention. - (DA) Madam President, we have reason to be pleased with the SET Plan.
Investment in real and sustainable renewable energy accounts for two thirds of the SET Plan funds.
The first relates to the importance of investment in low-carbon technologies and the second to carbon capture in agriculture.
For the EU to reach its 2020 target figures, there is no doubt that increased targeted investment in low-carbon technologies is essential.
The region I represent already has an EU fund of over EUR 250 million for low-carbon economic growth.
The East of England, including Cambridge University, is also home to leading research facilities, and over 250 contracts have been signed in my region for Framework 7 grants.
The Commission must cofinance as many large-scale projects as possible in order to facilitate the use of smart metering and smart networks as standard, including in Member States which still do not have these technologies.
Thank you. (RO) We need an ambitious and smart industrial policy, enabling the European Union to retain both its global competitiveness and jobs and production within the EU.
The investments in the development of low-carbon technology will help the European Union overcome the economic crisis and may create roughly 2.7 million jobs by 2020.
The European Union must invest in European initiatives promoting renewable energy sources and their introduction into the European electricity grid, as well as in biofuels and green transport.
This will make it possible to increase this rate in the 2014-2020 period.
Thank you. (PL) The discussion on investing in low-carbon technologies is a discussion about methods of adapting the economies of Member States to the requirements for limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
Regardless of how climate and weather conditions for the last few months in our continent have been tending to supply arguments to those scientists who are calling into question the influence of man on climate change by CO2 emissions, we should, none the less, when talking about low-emission technologies in this context, ask the following question: how can the means necessary for the development of clean technologies be ensured, to achieve the maximum effects in the shortest possible time?
Finally, I would also like to add that no matter what significant arguments can be found in favour of investing in the development of low-emission technologies, this should not take place at the expense of cohesion policy. (PL) Madam President, in the Communication from the Commission of 23 January 2008 entitled 'Supporting early demonstration of sustainable power generation from fossil fuels', which is part of the climate and energy package, it was stated that the European Union would support the construction of 10 to 12 carbon dioxide capture and storage demonstration plants.
Item 11 of this document stated that the measures which had been unveiled by the Commission were not sufficient to provide the desired incentives for constructing at least 12 demonstration facilities by 2015, while in item 18 it was considered imperative that at least the 12 demonstration facilities earmarked for assistance should cover all possible combinations of the three carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies.
The financial means are supposed, however, to come from the sale of 300 million allowances for CO2 emissions in the New Entrants' Reserve, or what is known as NER300.
If we want to keep the lights on, we need a nuclear renaissance, and it we need it fast. - (PT) Research and technology play a fundamental role in the development of a low-carbon society.
I think that this House in particular and the Commission, and Europe in general, ran away from parts of bio-energy when we had the food price hikes of 2007 and 2008.
The condition for doing so, of course, would be the creation of a post-Kyoto system or support from the European Council and the Commission in our efforts to get proper value for our remaining climate resources.
It is very important to pursue this point within the framework of the common agricultural policy, for instance by altering the composition of livestock feed, by introducing ploughing methods other than deep tilling and introducing new, innovative technologies. (PL) One of the most important priorities enshrined in the long-term strategy of the European Union should be to create an innovative economy, for example by transforming the present energy system using a low-emission model, particularly one that is based on clean carbon technologies.
Around 80% of primary energy used in the European Union comes from fossil fuels.
If Europe wants to achieve ambitious reduction goals economically, it is essential that it increases expenditure on research in the field of clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies and coordination of the combining of forces, potential and resources in both the public and private sectors.
Industrial revolutions in the past have shown that technology can change our way of life permanently.
Currently, we have an unrepeatable and feasible opportunity to change our model of energy production.
However, investing in the development and promotion of sources of clean, renewable energy can only be realised as long as the Community ensures a sufficient level of finance and includes these investments in the list of the European Union's strategic goals.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the European Union's energy choices, one thing is certain: the most significant, cheapest and most sustainable energy source available to us is saved energy.
Furthermore, in mountain areas there is historical experience of constructing buildings that are more efficient in terms of saving energy.
Article 174 of the Treaty of Lisbon recognises the role of mountains, which is why we are anxiously waiting for an initiative from the Commission to implement this article and for a European mountain policy also in the field of energy.
Thank you. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking on my own behalf, and I would like to say to my opposite number: in my view, nuclear technology is no solution and is also not, as far as I am concerned, a renewable energy source.
We must not save CO2 whilst at the same time ruining our environment. 2010 is the Year of Biodiversity, and it is very important that we also put on record in these papers that all investments, all measures, must also be seen in the light of conserving our environment for our children, for our future and for biodiversity. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, the debate on the transition to a low-carbon economy must not allow us to forget this fact.
It is in this context, that the adoption of the plan called the Oil Depletion Protocol, presented in Uppsala in 2002 and in Lisbon in 2005 by a group of scientists and specialists from several countries who are part of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas, would be crucial in introducing a plan that prioritises a good and fair management of these resources, the mitigation of their shortage and a controlled transition to other primary sources of energy. (HU) In my opinion, nuclear energy has not received the place it deserves in this report.
It should be R&amp;D&amp;D - research, demonstration and delivery - and with some of the funding certainly dependent on a successful outcome, otherwise every professor around Europe will be trying to do research, and it will be uncoordinated at the end of the day. (HU) We have heard beautiful words from the representative of the Council and the Commission about low-carbon technologies, but he failed to address the key issue: where will the financing come from?
Yet the Commission and the 15 original Member States want to prevent them from doing so.
The intention is that 20% of the total amount of energy produced will be based on renewable sources by 2020.
Romania has a more ambitious target of 24%.
According to studies, the Dobrogea region in south-eastern Romania is the number two area in Europe in terms of wind energy potential, after northern Germany.
The first phase of this project will be completed during this year, when the 139 installations will be put into operation.
The whole project will be completed in 2011 in the Fântânele and Cogealac areas of Constanţa County.
Furthermore, it is important for the public to interact with the private sector, since the public must learn to act in a business-like way and in accordance with a sustainable policy. (DE) Madam President, I will keep my question short.
The Commission will have two tangible instruments in its hands over the next few weeks.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (ES) Madam President, I have taken due note of this morning's debate and I am pleased to confirm that many of the concerns voiced by Parliament are shared by the Council.
This will, of course, among other things, require us to establish financial tools and public intervention criteria that are needed to support the development of these technologies.
As the Commissioner has already said, I would like to recall that, in general terms, private initiatives - private sources of funding - also have an important role to play; this is an area in which we need to work hand in hand in order to maximise the impact of public financial resources.
If you look at the proposals, what we envisage, how we estimate the financing needed for the future, you will find the following figures: wind: 6; solar: 16; bio: 19; CCS: 13; nuclear: 7; smart grids: 2; fuel cells and hydrogen: 5; Smart Cities: 11; European Energy Research Alliance: 5, and basic research: 1.
Written Statements (Rule 149) Although I acknowledge that this Commission communication aims to speed up the development of new technologies with higher potential for low-carbon emissions through greater energy efficiency and the utilisation of renewable energy, I regret that the European regions still lack a more defined role in this strategy.
One way of dealing with these problems is to use clean and renewable energy sources.
However, for these energy sources to play a significant role in the European energy system, two conditions have to be met.
