These are, obviously, top priorities for the European Union.
The highest safety standards are therefore called for.
The current standards and regulations have been in place for at least 20 years.
Article 31 of the Euratom Treaty would be replaced by Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
It would even contradict the principle contained in Article 106a of the Euratom Treaty, which is that, where this Treaty contains specific provisions regulating a particular subject, it shall take precedence over the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
As you know, the validity of Article 31 of the Euratom Treaty was confirmed by the Court in its ruling C-70/88.
Article 31 of the Euratom Treaty is the only objectively justifiable legal basis for this proposal.
I congratulate him on these amendments and I sincerely hope that the Commission will change its opinion and that it will pay greater attention to what our rapporteur has said.
I believe that the Council and the Commission will have to take into account the democratic development which has been in evidence since the adoption of the Euratom Treaty, that is, from somewhere around 1958, and pay more attention to what acts Parliament is adopting in the field of nuclear energy.
For in any case, every year on average, we absorb a dose of around 2.4 millisieverts, which, after around 70 years of life, adds up to a dose of around 200 millisieverts.
As I worked on this proposal, I was reminded how, in the mid-1980s, I worked with my predecessor from the Green Party here in Parliament, Mrs von Blottnitz, on the fall-out of the Chernobyl disaster.
We are all well aware of the importance of this debate.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for these excellent and important amendments. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, regrettably, the Hungarian nation had direct experience of the serious contamination of foodstuffs due to a nuclear accident during the Chernobyl disaster.
We must tackle the roots of the problem and not await a disaster passively. (DE) Mr President, it is a well-known fact that the Chernobyl disaster and the subsequent radioactive contamination of foodstuffs took neighbouring countries unawares in 1986.
If people in sensitive categories still cannot safely eat large quantities of indigenous mushrooms a full 25 years after Chernobyl, surely the time has come not only to shut down nuclear power stations, but also to put a stop to all nuclear testing.
In the final analysis, all of this is pointless if checks on foodstuffs in and around contaminated regions do not really work. (RO) Mr President, I think that to achieve an appropriate level of health protection for European citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and to give democratic legitimacy to the adoption of this regulation, safety standards must be established to protect the health of workers and of the general public so as to ensure that they are applied in all Member States, in accordance with the Union's decisions.
Member States are also responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels laid down for protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular, through the surveillance of the safety standards for both foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, as well as through monitoring environmental parameters.
Therefore, these are issues that interest me, Mrs Harms.
Those two points are, may I remind you, firstly, that the Euratom Treaty contains the appropriate legal basis for the health protection rules regarding radioactive contamination - and those rules take precedence - and, secondly, that the interinstitutional agreement on recasting must be adhered to by the three institutions - and naturally I say that on behalf of the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, the existing arrangements in the event of an accident involving radioactive contamination are totally out of touch with the current institutional situation.
