The technical structure must be able to supply accurate data in real time and constant forecasts, which can be provided by current technology.
I believe that these are the key points which need to be resolved so that we can ensure that we are prepared to manage such a situation successfully in the future.
Should this happen, will Member States coordinate at EU level in future?
Eyjafjallajökull - everyone probably knows of this volcano now - erupted last year and brought a large proportion of air traffic to a complete standstill.
It was indeed chaos - Mr Simpson has already said that.
On 4 May, it was also mentioned in the Council of transport ministers that we need a linked-up European transport system.
One further point which has not been mentioned yet but which I think is important in this context is the following: this ash crisis, and the subsequent problems it posed for the air transport industry, affected 10 million passengers and, of course, also many companies.
Some passengers were stranded and were unable to continue their journeys.
That, in turn, means that taking decisions, as well as their preparation, possibly requires a process that differs from that required for other modes of transport.
Finally, the third point I should like to stress is the lesson that can be drawn from this crisis, namely, that in the European Union, various 'islands' exist, as it were, that are not connected by different modes of transport to other European Union Member States.
Before operating in airspace contaminated by volcanic ash, the airline must produce a safety risk assessment and have it accepted by its supervising authority.
This must be reflected in the safety risk assessment.
To ensure comprehensive and coordinated actions, the Commission, together with Eurocontrol, established a European Aviation Crisis Coordination Cell, following the Council of Transport Ministers meeting of 4 May 2010.
The volcanic ash crisis highlighted the crucial importance of the Single European Sky.
Mr President, Mr Hahn, I naturally consider your response to be the response of the Commission, and I also do not expect you to go into the specific questions put forward by the Committee on Transport and Tourism today.
One thing was clear: more than 100 000 flights were cancelled and 300 airports and more than 10 million passengers were affected.
Although I am not a member of the Transport Committee, I would like to mention that not only a Single European Sky is needed, but also a single European infrastructure connected to this.
That caused considerable financial losses and, above all, as previous speakers have pointed out, more than 10 million people, not all of whom were on tourist trips, had to postpone their journeys and find other means of transport.
As regards the second element, as in the financial crisis and in the debates we are having on the Community method compared with intergovernmental operations, here, in the area of transport, intergovernmental operations or a fragmented response from 27 Member States are not what will resolve the difficulties we have encountered and which may return, but rather a genuinely Community method.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the Commission - something I do not often do - for very consistently placing the focus on safety, even in the face of protests from some airlines, which tried to make light of the problem because such problems have a financial impact.
Overall, this crisis caused by the volcanic ash has shown how vulnerable our highly equipped air transport system now is - that is something that is obvious to all of us already at our airports.
As has been mentioned, over 100 000 flights were cancelled, tens of millions of business and holiday passengers were not able to travel as planned, goods and cargo were delayed or not transported at all, businesses were affected and our European carriers and airports suffered catastrophic financial losses.
The role of the authorities is to audit the airline safety management system to ensure that it meets the required safety standards.
This is the procedure applied by the US and other countries which have managed to deal with volcanic eruptions without major disruptions to air traffic.
Clear and decisive joined-up leadership is essential and we need the European Aviation Safety Agency to ensure that EU Member States adapt their current procedures to guarantee that airline operators will take responsibility and be supported in making such decisions in future.
This crisis had a particular impact on the European Union's eastern Member States, which remained separated from part of Western Europe and, unlike the other European Union Member States, did not have sufficient opportunity to choose alternative modes of transport.
At the time of the volcanic ash crisis, the costs were estimated to be in excess of GBP 200 million a day in UK flights alone.
Therefore, in order to avoid this, we must have much greater cooperation and much more cognisance of best practice so that we have a plan in place to prevent future disruptions and such a horrendous impact on the economy.
Regulation (EC) No 1070/2009 on improving the performance of the European aviation system requires Member States to take the necessary measures to guarantee implementation of the functional airspace blocks by 4 December 2012.
Over 10 million people were affected and the cancellations resulted in significant economic costs for thousands of passengers.
The biggest frustration that passengers face in situations like this is trying to get information, trying to get in contact with the airlines.
The travel chaos as a result of the bad weather in December 2010 further demonstrates this.
Commissioner Kallas made the right decision in agreement with the EU transport ministers in the Member States.
That decision must be made at a political level.
It must also be the case in the future, too. (PL) Mr President, this situation showed that Europe was not, in fact, prepared for this crisis.
It was a step in the right direction. (HU) Mr President, the volcanic eruption forces us to rethink transportation priorities.
Commissioner, you said that a first crisis exercise, linked to volcanic ash, is scheduled for 13 and 14 April under the coordination of Eurocontrol, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and the International Air Transport Association (IATA), but it is essential that the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) exercises real leadership to coordinate safety measures at European level.
As Mrs Foster said, many of us realised how dependent we are on modern air travel.
In addition, the economic losses airlines and other businesses suffered as a result of grounded flights and stranded passengers were substantial.
I think that is the overlying situation that we should support. (PL) Mr President, I will say it again: 100 000 cancelled flights, 10 million passengers who did not reach their destination, EUR 2 billion of losses to the airlines.
Meanwhile, air traffic over Europe continues to increase year-on-year.
Thank you very much. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the volcanic ash of last year showed us in an impressive way where our weaknesses lie.
The question therefore arises as to how we should deal with such situations in the future.
On the one hand, enhance coordination between the authorities and stakeholders, finally addressing the reform of Eurocontrol, which is not, of course, a body reporting directly to the European institutions, but which was, in any case, crucial in the management and lack of effective management of this crisis.
In addition, we must make decisive progress towards achieving the Single European Sky, developing all the functional airspace blocks (FABs) more quickly to reduce fragmentation in the management of airspace and to ensure their more effective management.
It would also be necessary - other fellow Members have said the same - to launch an emergency plan to provide alternative mobility, alternative means of transport if a similar situation should arise again. (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank the Members who spoke earlier to highlight all the shortcomings of European air transport integration in connection with the use of air space, ground structures and trade networks.
Over 10 million passengers were directly affected as 100 000 flights were cancelled across Europe.
I had to take sea crossings and trains, taxis and cars to get here to Strasbourg, which took me over 24 hours without sleep.
That being said - and as was the case in April last year - actions taken in this regard cannot diminish the levels of safety that the aviation industry is renowned for around the world.
Crisis situations are not new to the European Union and the EU response to this crisis was timely and efficient.
This will be of benefit to all citizens in Europe.
It is our intention to revise air passenger rights in 2012.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - The closure of large sectors of European air space in April and May last year due to the volcanic eruption in Iceland caused severe traffic disruption and economic damage and affected 10 million passengers directly.
The volcanic eruption in Iceland last year resulted in serious disruptions to air traffic over Europe.
It caused major economic losses and directly affected 10 million passengers.
In order to prevent further disruptions to air traffic, there is an urgent need to think of crisis management measures.
In addition, it is vital to define the role and function of the various institutions in crisis management so that there is concerted coordination, to avoid greater losses to the different players.
This event shows that it is crucial to develop the integration of European airspace through the Single European Sky initiative.
