The victims have turned to us, as their representatives in Europe, to guarantee them their right to justice which has been trampled on so many times in their own countries, such as Spain, where the Rodríguez Zapatero Government continues to lie to the Spanish people about a negotiation process with a terrorist group which has still not relinquished its arms.
Parliament must push for a European Charter which recognises the legitimate demands of the victims, such as not negotiating with terrorists and ensuring that they serve their prison sentences in full. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the last working week of the year, I would like to give you a summary of my experience with the administration of the European Parliament.
Hungarian is not an official language in Romania, but for the Hungarian community of one and a half million living in that country, it represents the language in which they learn about events that are happening in the world around them.
Unfortunately, even now, some Member States have direct advertising of unhealthy foods aimed at children, as well as extremely different interpretations of the guidelines regarding the code of conduct. (SL) Mr President, today, I would like us, here in this Chamber of the European Parliament, to pay attention to and, in a sense, heed the warning about the Middle Eastern peace process which 26 former top statesmen and women of the European Union have addressed to the global public.
However, while their obligations are equal, their entitlements are not.
It is time to put an end to the way the CAP separates the old from the new Member States, and it is my sincere hope that you will all support this cause. (PT) Mr President, the tornado that hit Portugal last Tuesday caused enormous damage in the region of Tomar.
However, it is absolutely crucial for these mechanisms to be activated and applied in a way that is quick, flexible and simple.
This is why I am waiting for a clear, reasoned response from the European Commission, which will remove this question mark hanging over its vertical structure. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a month, a group of 250 people, including 80 Eritreans, have been held hostage by traffickers in the Sinai Desert in Egypt.
I would like to remind you that the verdict in Mikhail Khodorkovsky's and Platon Lebedev's second trial will be delivered on the morning of 15 December.
The European Union has invested a total of EUR 1.3 million in three PEACE programmes since 1994.
In conclusion, continued support for the peace programme is absolutely essential. (ES) Mr President, the 1989 'Television without frontiers' Directive established that Member States must not obstruct audio-visual broadcasts from other Member States.
Thank you very much. (GA) Mr President, I welcome what was agreed at COP 16 in Cancún.
In my own country, there are about 22 000 people employed in the dairy sector.
The referendum is scheduled to take place on 9 January next.
Every time that Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy speculate in public, the speculators immediately thank them and speculate accordingly.
