The amendment relates to the fact that the current directive from the year 2000 was adapted to conditions at the time and, in particular, to the vaccinations which were then available on the market.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission is grateful to Parliament for its support for the proposal to further facilitate vaccination against bluetongue and for its recommendation in relation to this very important issue.
The proposed amendments to the directive introduce the possibility of using inactivated vaccines everywhere in the European Union.
Parliament's report is most timely and important for the animal health situation in the European Union.
The EU remains at risk for new epidemic waves of bluetongue in the future and it is important that Member States have the opportunity to protect animals against the virus when they are at risk.
At the same time, we are very aware that, especially with such urgent issues as the one we are discussing today, we need to work very hard to find a solution between Parliament and the Council in order to avoid unnecessary blockages.
The new inactivated vaccines enable the risk of infection to be excluded, so that this vaccine can also be successfully used in areas where the disease has not yet occurred.
This will allow the Member States to use the vaccinations more effectively, significantly reducing the burden on the agricultural sector as a result of this disease.
It is therefore vital for the livestock industry that we amend the directive to allow the use of this vaccine, and that we do this as soon as possible.
Mr Wojciechowski has done his bit and he cannot be blamed in any way for any delay.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, this is a disease in respect of which farmers should make their own decisions, based on their own particular circumstances.
The Union has cofinanced major vaccination campaigns, amounting to EUR 370 million in the last three years, as also mentioned by the Commissioner.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has made every effort to approve the text as a matter of urgency in order to allow the vaccination campaign to go ahead before the summer.
I welcome measures allowing Member States to use inactivated vaccination against bluetongue in areas not affected by the disease, and thank the rapporteur for his work on this issue.
For too long, our vaccination strategy has been held back by the fact that we have not developed sophisticated enough products to allow vaccination of animals outside exclusion zones.
The old directive on measures to combat bluetongue from 2000 needs to be improved and updated.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has discussed and approved its report in a short space of time so as to allow today's vote here to take place, and so that the next step towards the agreement with the Council can be taken as soon as possible and thus allow the new provisions of this directive to enter into force.
I would therefore like to call upon the Council to come to a compromise with the Commission and Parliament's position, which I am sure will be approved here today by a large majority. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, adapting the rules on vaccination for bluetongue is in accordance with the new EU vaccination policy as expressed in the Animal Health strategy 2007-2013 under the slogan 'Prevention is better than cure'.
To Mr Agnew, I would like to say that if you have a good vet, then he will recommend vaccination, because that is what is wanted by the vets that I know and it is what I have heard repeatedly during the discussions.
Therefore, unless a marked inactivated vaccine - that is, a vaccine of which the pathogenic organism is of vaccine origin - is developed, it will be impossible to distinguish between a vaccinated animal and an animal infected by the virus.
We should also understand that drawing up correlation tables will add further to the administrative burden. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are taking a step forward in understanding that this is not a problem linked to some areas of Europe, Southern Europe or North Africa.
The new inactivated vaccines allow producers, for the first time, to exclude the risk of infection with this potentially highly dangerous disease, because the vaccines can now also be used in areas in which bluetongue has not previously been found.
Once again, I would like to thank our rapporteur and to thank the House for its strong support for this measure.
Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who took part in the debate and expressed their support for my report.
I appeal to the Council not to take issue with the correlation tables, and if it must, not in this case, so that the new vaccinations can come into force during this season, as expected.
