I believe that it is in the European Parliament's interest for this body, the Human Rights Council, to be as powerful and effective as possible, because I would say that we need a credible partner in the dialogue on human rights. (RO) I would like to talk about the situation in the Gaza Strip which, as you know, is a constant source of concern in terms of respect for human rights, especially after the deterioration in circumstances as a result of the clashes last winter.
In spite of Articles 13, 23 and 126 of the Geneva Convention on the rights of prisoners of war, Ghilad, who also holds French citizenship, has not had his rights respected in terms of receiving visits from his family and the International Red Cross, receiving humane treatment and having the exact location where he is being held prisoner disclosed.
I must emphasise that even Article 77 of the Goldstone Commission report, which is otherwise critical of Israel, recommends that Ghilad Shalit should enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Geneva Convention.
On the other hand, Israel respects the rights of prisoners. (HU) At the March session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, the European Union must unequivocally state that the international community cannot keep silent about human rights violations, not only those occurring in developing countries but also the contraventions that may be observed in developed countries.
The Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, adopted by the UN General Assembly on 18 December 1992, is equally binding on developing and developed countries, including EU Member States.
Thirdly, and lastly, the European Parliament must - and can - carefully monitor the specific procedures that will follow in terms of the universal periodic examination of the Council, so that there is a real and substantial contribution on our part to the promotion of human rights in all the Member States of the United Nations. (FR) Mr President, Mrs Georgieva, Mr López Garrido, I would like to draw your attention to point 13 of this resolution on Iran's candidacy in the United Nations Human Rights Council.
On 15 February, Iran was subjected to a universal periodic review, which reviews the situation regarding the protection and promotion of human rights in the country.
Europe must speak with one voice, demonstrating its consistency, and, as Baroness Ashton said in her statements, let us say that, at this stage, Iran's candidacy is inconceivable. (SV) Mr President, as regards our group's joint resolution on the UN Human Rights Council I am particularly pleased about paragraphs 6 and 25, in which we repeat the EU's strong support for country-specific resolutions.
Here in front of me, I have three declarations made this year alone by the Union's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton, regarding the situation in Iran, condemning and expressing her concern about cases of human rights violations and executions that have taken place in Iran.
