Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (FI) Madam President, I think it is very important that we voted in favour of this report with a clear majority.
It also needs to be immediately adopted through transposition of the directive. (FI) Madam President, this was an extremely important subject for debate, and I think that it would have been important if Parliament had sent a clear message that we are very worried about what happened.
We want to show the public that we are doing all we can to make nuclear power plants in Europe and in the world generally as safe as possible.
It is a pity, however, that the majority here voted against this, and that the clear message was therefore not sent today. (DE) Madam President, I am somewhat disappointed that Parliament was unable to approve this by a majority today in order to learn sensible lessons from the reactor disaster in Japan.
Secondly, it should also be obvious that if we carry out stress tests, then any nuclear power plant that fails these tests is required to be removed from the grid.
Neither of these proposals received a majority in the vote.
I was therefore unable to support the resolution.
I hope that we will soon succeed in organising a uniform energy policy that provides us with safe and sensible energy in the future, which means movement towards energy efficiency and renewable energies. (SK) Madam President, no one surely doubts that the accident in Fukushima showed the need to tighten up assessments of existing nuclear power plant operations and the construction of new plants.
It will be necessary to review and adjust legislation, as well as the parameters of the stress tests on European nuclear plants, based on common criteria applied throughout the EU.
The Commission should investigate alternative energy solutions for the future, at the same time taking into consideration the different energy needs of the EU Member States.
In my opinion, investing in nuclear power should not mean that there is less research or product development in the area of renewable energy sources. (SK) Madam President, the disaster in Fukushima has given rise to justified public fears over the use of nuclear energy, and it is therefore appropriate to think about the current situation in the EU, and to take decisive steps to improve safety, with which I agree, as well as transparency in the operation of nuclear plants and the protection of human health.
In the current situation, it is not possible, with the best will in the world, to imagine a functioning, competitive electricity market without the contribution of nuclear energy in a balanced energy mix, whether we like it or not.
The EU and the Member States have a duty to create an energy policy that will ensure the sovereignty, political independence and economic security of every state.
The potential for massive catastrophe and the lack of a safe way to dispose of spent nuclear fuel means that nuclear power does not represent a safe means to develop energy production.
At the centre of that plan, there must be a long-term programme of investment in renewable energy sources leading to the progressive replacement of oil, gas, coal and nuclear power stations. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the tragedy of Fukushima, we all need to stop and think.
Nuclear power is once more in the spotlight, and I believe we need to think above all of the future, of our children's future.
The tragedy of Fukushima tells us that there is no such thing as zero-risk nuclear power stations.
Above all, it tells us that we need to organise a rapid exit from nuclear power and to focus our attention on renewable, alternative power sources.
Europe needs a new energy policy in order to halt the construction of new nuclear power stations because of the terrible impact these power stations could have on safety, the environment, the climate and future generations.
A radical change of perspective is necessary, for a safe future based on saving energy and the use of renewable sources. (PL) Madam President, I voted in favour of adopting the resolution.
A Europe free of nuclear power is the only possible route if we want to guarantee that our children and future generations will have a future protected from the repetition of catastrophes like Fukushima and Chernobyl.
That is why we have to say a clear no to the nuclear option and invest in research and innovation in other sources that are truly green, renewable and clean. (DE) Madam President, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and I find it deeply regrettable that Parliament has not succeeded in reaching a uniform position today.
I think it would have been better to vote for the compromise, because I am aware that the European Union contains very differing views on the issue of nuclear energy.
I remember the time when the Estonia sank: some were of the opinion that all ships should be banned, because they are dangerous.
It is very important to ensure that nuclear technology is safe, and I know that in Europe, we will also construct plants safely in the future, and attention needs to be paid to this.
However, I do think that in the area of nuclear safety and in the interests of good neighbourliness, it would be a good idea to have some form of joint British/Irish - when I say Irish, I mean North-South Irish - safety overview of the workings of those plants so that we would be informed about the risks, if there are any.
Furthermore, in the event of an accident, we could participate in any evacuation that there might need to be for people in Wales or England, so that we could play our part as a good neighbour.
That is the reason why I wished to make this explanation. (FI) Madam President, in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, people have tried to stand up for human dignity, transparency, fundamental rights and the right to democracy.
The European Union has shown willing and ability in protecting Libya's civilian population and supporting the democratic revolution.
A viable, fair society needs genuine dialogue and interaction between civil society and the political decision makers.
The revolutionary movements that started in Tunisia have inspired and encouraged millions of people across North Africa and the Middle East to engage in popular uprisings against the brutal regimes that have dictatorially ruled those countries for decades.
Using force against your own citizens is a violation of every law.
I hope that, in adopting today's resolution, we will also contribute to the protection of fundamental human rights in these countries. (FI) Madam President, the European Union obviously knows that it has to implement its own fundamental values in its policy.
We should now exert more of this type of influence on Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, so that they might accept human rights for all and, furthermore, the rights of women and children, thereby, perhaps, taking the path to democracy.
It is not the responsibility of the Icelandic people to pay for the crisis.
Workers, pensioners and poor people have not created this crisis and must not pay for it; not in Iceland, not in Greece, not in Portugal, not in Spain, not in Ireland nor elsewhere.
However, I would like to see all issues being placed clearly on the table during the accession negotiations and being discussed and dealt with beforehand.
The European Union has promised the Balkan countries an opportunity for enlargement.
The European Union cannot hide behind the dispute over Macedonia's name in its accession process.
The dispute over Macedonia's name would not be the first time a new Member State brought insoluble problems with it.
Macedonia's progress, first and foremost, depends on Macedonia itself, but the EU should not shut the door in its face for political reasons like the dispute over its name. (DE) Madam President, I also voted in favour of this report and of this resolution - in favour of Macedonia.
Macedonia is a country with great prospects in Europe mainly because it also has great economic prospects in the Balkans, a region that has genuine difficulties, is prospering economically, and is conducting the negotiations with élan - which is very positive.
In view of this positive attitude, I would like to thank all the Members who voted for this resolution, as well as all those who worked with the parliament there as part of the European Parliament delegation.
Above all, it should be investigated whether genocide and crimes against humanity did take place.
It is also becoming absolutely vital to ensure order and the safety of citizens by bringing all forms of violence to an end.
The results of democratic elections must be complied with in full.
Usurping power, inciting violence and violating human rights demand judgment by the relevant international authorities. (FI) Madam President, I willingly voted in favour of this resolution.
I think that it is very important, in particular, that we adopt a clear and tough position on Belarus, which is an obvious blot on the map of Europe.
In particular, however, and with regard to the vote, I would like to go through Amendment 1 to point 10 tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, where they stated that the EU's partner countries have a longterm opportunity to join the EU.
That is why I voted against this. (PL) Madam President, the Eastern Dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy is a strategic element of the European Union's international relations.
Therefore, it is essential to increase expenditure in order to develop the democratic structures of these countries.
Support for initiatives such as Bielsat have a not inconsiderable significance for the independence of the media in Belarus, at the same time as withdrawing assistance for the state-controlled media.
I would call for active support to be given to local democratic authorities in these countries through partnership programmes.
I appeal for an increase in funding to support human rights and the development of civil societies.
Deepening social integration will help to influence social and political change, and is a vital investment in the future.
Therefore, I support the resolution. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 21 documentary references, 21 explanatory comments and 63 points summarising Parliament's requests in the motion for a resolution, making a total of 105 points.
International trade has become a form of new foreign policy, and could help to create better living conditions throughout the region.
Written explanations of vote I am in favour of this report, which amends Directive 2000/75/EC.
In my view, these amendments are justified due to the spread of the disease, and because the scientific discovery of a vaccine does not pose the risks that the previous one did.
This would help Member States to make more efficient use of vaccination against bluetongue, thereby reducing the incidence of the disease in the farming sector.
Thanks to the new technology, 'inactivated vaccines' against bluetongue are available, and do not pose any risk to non-vaccinated animals.
The widespread use of these vaccines during the 2008 and 2009 vaccination campaign resulted in a significant improvement in the health situation.
I would like to call for the amendment of the existing rules on vaccination set out in Directive 2000/75/EC, in order to take account of recent technological advances in the production of vaccines, to ensure that the spread of the bluetongue virus is better controlled, and to reduce the burdens on the agricultural sector caused by this disease.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
In the past, vaccination against bluetongue was carried out using live attenuated vaccines, which called for a series of restrictions on vaccination so as to avoid the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals.
However, scientific advances have allowed the creation of new inactivated vaccines.
Given the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock faming, all measures that make vaccination easier and more effective should be taken in order to protect farmers from the loss of animals, and, ultimately, in order to protect food security.
At EU level, this disease was first seen in the south, and then in the centre and north of Europe.
These inactivated vaccines, unlike 'live attenuated vaccines', do not pose the risk of an undesired circulation of the virus from the vaccine, and can be used safely outside areas subjected to restrictions.
We believe that greater flexibility in bluetongue vaccination, taking account of the technological developments in producing vaccines, will contribute to better control of the disease and reduce the burdens that it brings to bear on the agricultural sector.
Since the early 2000s, several epidemic waves of disease have occurred in many Member States, including central and northern Europe, causing significant losses in terms of morbidity, mortality and disruption of trade in live animals.
Those vaccines may lead to undesired circulation of the vaccine virus in unvaccinated animals.
Unlike the 'live attenuated vaccines', these inactivated vaccines do not pose the risk of undesired vaccine virus circulation and can therefore be successfully used outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions.
This proposal would relax some restrictions, which have become unnecessary in light of the recent developments in vaccine production.
The new rules would help Member States to make more effective use of vaccination to control bluetongue and reduce the burden on the agricultural sector posed by this disease.
As a result of technical innovation, newer vaccinations against bluetongue have appeared on the market which were unavailable when the Commission was drawing up its directive.
Making the regulations more flexible and liberalising them will allow for more effective breeding, and, above all, will make the protection of animals against unwanted and dangerous diseases more effective.
In Austria, too, where cattle breeding has a long tradition, many farmers have found their livelihoods threatened.
It is now important to implement supporting measures and revise the old regulation before the next epidemic breaks out.
I welcome the rapid action at EU level and advocate the fast implementation of the new directive.
Making a decision quickly will allow us to have a usable and uniform ruling by the autumn, which is in the interests of the Member States and, above all, of those that keep animals.
Bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants.
Europe intervened with Council Directive 2000/75/EC to deal with the problem through provisions regulating the use of 'attenuated vaccines', in order to effectively combat the consequences of the phenomenon.
I voted in favour of this report because the new provisions will allow Member States to control the phenomenon, thus reducing the negative impact of this disease on a large number of European livestock farmers.
I hope that this will help enable the urgent measures to be adopted as soon as possible within the next few months.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution.
The new rules would help Member States to make more effective use of vaccination to control bluetongue and reduce the burden on the agricultural sector posed by this disease.
Vaccination against bluetongue was carried out using live attenuated vaccines, which called for a series of restrictions on vaccination so as to avoid the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals.
Given the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock farms, all measures that facilitate good practice in vaccination should be adopted so as to protect farmers from the loss of animals, which can cause damage that often proves fatal for such farms.
I voted in favour of the report because I consider it right and proper to protect our livestock from epidemic diseases.
The flexibility called for will allow farmers to protect their animals.
For some years, there have been repeated occurrences linked to bluetongue, particularly in Northern Europe.
I voted in favour of this report because it advocates the introduction of an innovative vaccine which, unlike its predecessor, carries no risk of healthy animals being infected as a result of vaccination.
The Commission's proposal on vaccination against bluetongue, which is improved in this report, aims to make the rules on vaccination against bluetongue more flexible, in particular, by allowing the use of inactivated vaccines outside areas subjected to restrictions on the circulation of animals.
The new rules will help the Member States to make the use of vaccines to control bluetongue more effective and to reduce the burden that this disease places on the agricultural sector.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report on vaccination against bluetongue.
Bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants such as cattle, sheep and goats.
Since the early 2000s, several epidemic waves of disease have occurred in many Member States, including in central and northern Europe, causing significant losses in terms of morbidity, mortality and disruption of trade in live animals.
Council Directive 2000/75/EC of 20 November 2000 lays down specific provisions for the control and eradication of bluetongue, including rules on vaccination.
These rules were designed for the use of 'live attenuated vaccines' that were the only vaccines available when the directive was adopted a decade ago.
Those vaccines may lead to undesired circulation of the vaccine virus in unvaccinated animals.
For this reason, Directive 2000/75/EC allows vaccination only in specially designated zones in which the disease has occurred and which have been subject to animal movement restrictions.
Unlike the 'live attenuated vaccines', these inactivated vaccines do not pose the risk of undesired vaccine virus circulation and could therefore be successfully used outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions.
The proposal is in line with the new Animal Health strategy for the European Union (2007-2013) 'Prevention is better than cure', as it involves both a more flexible approach to vaccination and an improvement in the current measures for combating the principal diseases in animals.
in writing. - The EPLP wholeheartedly supports the report aimed at amending Directive 2000/75/EC with a view to allowing the use of inactivated vaccines against bluetongue outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions.
Farmers will now have a new and safer vaccine available and will be given greater powers over their own vaccination programmes.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which will assist in the fight against bluetongue disease within the EU.
in writing. - I voted to change the rules on vaccination against bluetongue disease in order to allow the use of more effective vaccines and to reduce red tape for farmers.
The new law will have real benefits to farmers across Europe and especially in Wales.
The UK will be granted bluetongue-free status, but farmers will still be allowed to vaccinate their animals against the deadly disease.
I am in favour of this resolution because its main aim is to ensure the highest level of security for populations following disasters like the one that happened recently in Japan.
The technical aspects of safe energy trapping should be very carefully considered because a situation like the one that we are seeing now can have even more severe consequences in terms of both human health and the environment, in addition to its material impact.
I voted against the resolution on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan.
I voted against the resolution because when voting on the fifth subparagraph, the majority of the European Parliament approved its second part, which calls for a moratorium on the development of nuclear energy and the construction of new nuclear power plants in the European Union.
This provision was adopted, although my group - the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - voted against it.
Having lost the vote on this important issue, I could not vote in favour of this resolution.
I therefore voted against it, otherwise I would have been voting against my own country Lithuania's energy strategy, the main objective of which is energy independence.
The Fukushima nuclear disaster has had a series of repercussions on European political life.
Every nuclear power installation, whether inside or outside Europe, has the potential to be a weapon of destruction.
I believe that none of us would wish to relive the Chernobyl disaster of 26 April 1986.
The second lesson is that science and technology may make giant leaps forward in all areas, but they always have to take into account a major constraint, which is nature and its unpredictability.
in writing. - I voted against this report because of its several flaws, starting with its approach to the nuclear issue.
After the Japanese tragedy, it is no longer possible to deal with the nuclear argument solely in terms of safety.
The title of the report is 'on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan', but there is no special lesson to be drawn except that confirming the practical impossibility of controlling both the risks and consequences of a major nuclear accident.
A resolution on this subject cannot be centred around the issue of nuclear safety without addressing the most important nuclear safeguard, which is an exit strategy from nuclear energy itself.
As regards the broader issue of energy sources in Europe, may I remind you that we need to bear in mind the target of a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020, as well as the protection of the EU's energy independence.
I voted in favour of this resolution, although not all of the amendments proposed by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats were adopted during the vote.
The resolution text contains particularly important provisions on the nuclear power plants planned for the Kaliningrad region and Belarus.
The resolution notes that there are major problems with the constructions mentioned concerning nuclear safety standards and compliance with appropriate obligations in accordance with international conventions.
These problems are not just relevant for Lithuania, which shares its borders with Belarus and the Kaliningrad region, but for the whole of Europe.
The document also contains important proposals to ensure compliance with the highest nuclear safety requirements and to undertake comprehensive testing in nuclear power plants already operating in the EU, so that it is possible to assess the true safety status of such power plants.
The EU's response to the disaster in Japan has been the right one: we have responded rapidly, without panicking.
We have immediately cleared the way for a thorough investigation under European supervision.
We will even have to make new investments in order to meet our energy needs and, at the same time, consolidate our climate ambitions.
Yet the European Parliament does not have a position on nuclear power.
Several clearly identified issues were on the table: that of a moratorium on the construction of new nuclear power plants, the conducting of independent stress tests, the development of renewable forms of energy, and the efforts in the key area of energy efficiency.
The compromise resolution was a good starting point, and I supported the amendments in favour of a carefully planned and prepared phase-out of nuclear power, reflecting the fight against global warming.
I also voted in favour of the amendments calling for investment in research and innovation, in order to promote energy saving and greatly increase the number of renewable forms of energy.
However, the outcome of the vote - the incoherent vote - forced me to vote against the amended resolution.
It is now vital to hold an in-depth debate on all these issues and to carry out an energy transition in a spirit of solidarity, taking into account the situation in all the Member States.
in writing. - I am disappointed by the voting on this resolution.
We are debating the lessons for nuclear safety in Europe following the crisis in Japan.
With that target in mind, and as we are now making long-term energy choices, we should be phasing out nuclear plants over the coming years across Europe.
I regret that Parliament has not drawn any lessons from what has happened in Japan.
The plenary in Parliament was not able to adopt a resolution, with the unedifying spectacle of groups cancelling each other out and rejecting one another's proposals without being able to adopt anything in common.
The obvious conclusions should have been to step up nuclear security, test weaknesses, freeze nuclear expansion projects in the EU and invest more effectively in clean energy and in energy conservation.
Chernobyl and Fukushima have only heightened the call for greater transparency and more information about the risks and the disasters.
in writing. - I wish to place on the record the fact that I did not participate in the vote on the individual paragraphs of, and amendments to, the joint resolution.
The European Parliament has missed an opportunity to send a strong message to the Member States and the European Commission with the aim of improving the safety of nuclear power plants in Europe and in neighbouring countries, in particular, through stress tests.
It is vital that all possible lessons are learned from the Fukushima disaster, particularly with regard to the safety rules imposed on EU nuclear power plants, in order to ensure their safety and, ultimately, that of the European public.
At present, nuclear energy is vital for ensuring the supply of energy with low carbon emissions in Europe.
However, we must move towards greater energy efficiency and an increase in renewable energy.
The Commission and the Member States should invest in the modernisation and expansion of European infrastructure in the field of energy, as well as in the interconnection of networks, in order to guarantee a reliable energy supply.
Ensuring the safety of nuclear installations and preventing the risk of accidents in every way possible are important issues addressed in this resolution, which also calls on the Member States to impose 'a moratorium on the development and commissioning of new nuclear reactors, at least for the period during which the stress tests are conducted and evaluated'.
However, we need to ensure that the tragedy that occurred in Japan is not an opportunity for the advancement of lobbies, or for progress to be made today only to be reversed in the future.
Lessons need to be taken seriously and we must learn from this experience in order to diagnose failings and shortfalls in design and operational terms, which could lead to accidents at other facilities.
This experience also needs to be taken into account as part of future energy developments.
Experts from specialist bodies within the Member States and also from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) must be part of this assessment, while retaining their role, authority, autonomy and independence.
Ensuring the safety of nuclear installations and preventing the risk of accidents in every way possible are important issues addressed in this resolution, which also calls on the Member States to impose 'a moratorium on the development and commissioning of new nuclear reactors, at least for the period during which the stress tests are conducted and evaluated'.
However, we need to ensure that the tragedy that occurred in Japan does not serve as a springboard for economic interest groups to open up new avenues, to the detriment of the interests and safety of the public.
Instead, it is important to diagnose failings and shortfalls in design and operational terms, which could lead to accidents at other facilities.
Experts from specialist bodies within the Member States and also from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) should be part of this assessment, while retaining their role, authority, autonomy and independence.
We do not agree with interference in the energy policies of Member States or third countries: as a technical, autonomous and independent body, recommendations regarding this subject should come from the IAEA with the proper support from the EU.
However, the situation in the Fukushima nuclear plant remains a threat.
In an attempt to avert similar threats in the future, it would be right to consider implementing so-called stress tests of nuclear plants in EU Member States.
A similar situation to the one in Japan could happen anywhere in Europe.
Thirdly, the radical suggestions it contains require a national referendum, which, in my country, is to take place at the initiative of the left-wing parties.
In my country, the total capacity of these resources would cover 13%, to a maximum of 20%, of essential needs.
Maybe in Sweden the situation is different, as it has large reserves of hydropower, but not in Poland.
The case of Fukushima requires a review of the whole of the European Union's current energy policy.
There is no such thing as zero risk in life full stop.
Neither hydropower nor today's alternative energy sources are capable of meeting our supply needs.
The parliamentary resolution on the lessons to be drawn from the nuclear accident in Japan contained some very positive points with regard to the safety of power plants, recommending, for example, 'stress tests' carried out in a coordinated manner at EU level by independent bodies working in accordance with the most exacting standards and completely transparently.
Furthermore, like everyone else in the French socialist delegation, I supported the amendments in favour of a carefully planned and prepared phasing-out of nuclear power, reflecting the fight against global warming.
That phasing-out of nuclear power will have to go hand in hand with increased investment in research and innovation, in order to reduce our energy dependence and increase the number of renewable forms of energy in the energy mix of the EU Member States.
After such a disastrous event as Fukushima, the question of the future of a sector as sensitive as nuclear energy requires more than a hastily put together resolution.
We will now have to take the time necessary to organise a genuinely constructive debate, addressing all of the associated issues while enabling everyone to voice his or her opinion.
This resolution cannot cover every aspect of the debate on nuclear energy in detail.
While some aspects of the resolution are indeed positive, Amendment 10 was decisive for me.
I am pleased that the European Parliament rejected this resolution.
However, the introduction of a moratorium on new nuclear power plants for the period during which the stress tests are conducted in the EU is unacceptable.
I voted against the joint resolution because of the rejection by the House of two key amendments presented by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament on the development of medium- to long-term strategies for the progressive phasing-out of nuclear power and the definition of binding renewable energy targets.
The vote against the entire resolution by the House highlights the fact that the nuclear issue is no longer just one of greater safety.
In this sense, the European Parliament's vote is the first step towards a change of direction in energy policy choices on both a European and an international scale.
The disaster in Japan has awakened people's concern over nuclear safety.
We abstained from the vote on the joint resolution, as it also contained a proposal for a moratorium on the development of new nuclear reactors while the stress tests were being carried out.
The conclusion that can be drawn from the disaster in Japan is that we should not run nuclear power plants for so many years.
The disaster can be seen more as an inspiration to build new nuclear reactors.
I voted for the adoption of this resolution and I regret that Parliament was unable to agree on a single motion for a resolution on this topical subject.
I support the demand for comprehensive stress tests, which must be carried out both in all existing and all planned nuclear power stations, and satisfactory results in respect of which must be the precondition for their remaining in operation.
I share the concerns expressed in this motion for a resolution that the development of new nuclear projects in Belarus and Russia (the Kaliningrad oblast) gives rise to serious concerns about nuclear safety standards and compliance with the obligations contained in international conventions, and that Europeans, Member States and the European Commission must respond to these concerns in a spirit of solidarity.
That is why our Union must ensure that these stress tests and the nuclear safety standards that will be defined as a result be applied not only in the EU but also in respect of nuclear power stations already built or still in the planning stage in Europe's neighbouring countries.
As for improving nuclear projects, in Belarus and Kaliningrad, there are huge problems surrounding nuclear safety standards, and compliance with the appropriate obligations in international conventions, because these problems are not just a matter for the Member States that share borders with these regions, but for the whole of Europe, and EU entities and the European Commission must act together, under the subsidiarity principle.
The resolution on the EU strategy for the Baltic Sea region and the role of macro-regions in the future cohesion policy states that given the planned development of nuclear energy in the Baltic Sea region, the EU Member States must comply with the most stringent standards of safety and environmental protection, and the European Commission must monitor and check whether neighbouring countries on the EU's external borders follow the same approach and international conventions.
Nuclear power plants under construction near the EU's external borders must comply with international nuclear safety and environmental protection standards.
The serious accident that took place at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station on 11 March 2011, due to the earthquake and subsequent tsunami, resulted in damage and long-term consequences for health through contamination of the environment.
Following on from warnings from the International Atomic Energy Agency on the state of now obsolete nuclear power installations, it would seem necessary to identify measures able to assess safety levels at installations.
Collaboration and coordination between Member States are crucial, as crises of this type have repercussions not only for the countries in which they are built, but also on a more widespread level.
The events that have taken place show that, in order to prevent disasters on this scale, Europe has to implement a series of very stringent measures in order to assess existing safety levels.
The development of new nuclear power installations in Belarus and Russia requires the Commission to take action by opening up a dialogue with these countries in order to ensure the safety not only of their neighbouring countries, but of Europe as a whole.
In principle, I support this resolution because it calls for a first step towards phasing out nuclear power throughout the European Union.
The only correct solution would be to phase out nuclear energy completely throughout the European Union, and to do so as quickly as possible.
In April, we voted on the joint resolution on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan.
I voted against this resolution, because apart from the bans and the moratorium on nuclear power development and the suggestion of a gradual withdrawal from nuclear energy (which is unrealistic), it does not add anything positive, and neither does it provide any solutions for the future of the energy industry in general.
The situation after the tragedy in Fukushima has completely changed the philosophy of the approach to the future of energy production in Europe and Poland.
Investments undertaken in order to build two nuclear power plants have also been stopped.
The resolution only stresses the importance of energy generated from renewable sources, which in Poland represents only 13%, and at most 20%, of our needs.
Moreover, a referendum on the nuclear power industry, which is being suggested by the Left, is still to be held in Poland, and therefore, the conclusions drawn from this very resolution are premature.
I welcomed the fact that the majority voted against the resolution.
I think that we need to avoid making immediate, far-reaching political decisions about the role of nuclear energy in the energy mix in the medium and long term.
Until now, nuclear energy has been the safest form of energy, statistically speaking, with the lowest number of accident victims, compared to other energy sources (for example, gas and oil).
It is also vital to respect the decisions of Member States in terms of determining the composition of their own energy mix.
Nuclear energy has an important role to play in achieving the European Union's targets set by the Europe 2020 strategy and the energy strategy for the current decade.
I voted against the resolution on nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan.
The reason for my voting against it is the resolution's call for a moratorium to be imposed on the development of new nuclear power plants.
I think that the production of nuclear energy in safe conditions is of paramount importance.
However, I believe that imposing a moratorium for an indefinable period is inappropriate.
The structure of the energy mix is Member States' responsibility.
in writing. - I voted against this resolution because the amendments adopted left us with a text which paid insufficient attention to nuclear safety issues.
The Fukushima disaster reminded the planet that zero risk for nuclear power does not exist.
The danger that nuclear energy represents for humanity is absolutely unsustainable, as are the high levels of risk from the waste produced.
We therefore need to go further in ensuring safety and improving safety testing.
I voted against this resolution as I believe that none of the aforementioned premises are guaranteed.
The Fukushima disaster reminds the world that there is no such thing as zero risk where nuclear power is concerned.
I shall not support this resolution if the amendments calling for nuclear power to be phased out are rejected.
This motion for a resolution on nuclear safety in Europe was more than necessary.
It deals with all the dangers posed by nuclear energy and I hope it will provide the impetus for a comprehensive rethink concerning the use of nuclear energy in Europe.
During voting on the resolution on the safety of nuclear energy following the Fukushima accident, I voted against the draft amendment regarding CO2 reduction objectives for three reasons: a) the issue does not relate to the subject of nuclear safety; b) the objectives set out give disproportionate prominence to the role of the EU in the unilateral reduction of CO2; c) such an ambitious - and in truth, unrealistic - reduction in CO2 would only be acceptable if it were combined with a CO2 tax on imports, which could seriously affect the competitiveness of European industry, as well as leading European companies to relocate their production in countries without CO2 restrictions, with serious effects on the EU economy and employment.
I voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan, for the following reasons: at least seven of the tabled amendments are scientifically unrealistic; many parts of the text are simply sound bites without any real substance, and those speaking out against nuclear energy do not present alternative solutions to using it either.
Last but not least, I must point out that I regret the fact that the European Parliament has not adopted a stance on this issue.
I voted in favour of the resolution on nuclear safety because, following the recent events in Japan, we cannot afford not to tackle the issue responsibly and with objective criteria.
I believe it is important for Europe to review its rules on safety in nuclear power installations in order to guarantee absolute safety levels, which can be identified by stress tests, that will show any risks and limits to the use of nuclear power.
The resolution in itself aims to show that, despite everything, it is possible to learn from catastrophes, and to react clearly and effectively in order to ensure that they do not happen again.
It also underlines the need to aim at alternative sources of energy, such as renewable energy, while nuclear power remains an indispensable source of low carbon energy.
I voted against the resolution on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan, because I do not believe that the issue of the future of nuclear power - a crucial one for our fellow citizens - can be resolved by this House in a few hours through amendments adopted without any real debate.
At stake are the credibility of our Parliament and the wellbeing of our fellow citizens, who would not understand - and rightly so - if we were to commit them to long-term courses of action that we did not discuss calmly and exhaustively beforehand, taking into account the different national situations and the constraints of our common fight against climate change.
As far as our institution is concerned, then, there is no before and after 11 March 2011.
After all, it was not too difficult to agree on some simple principles: The principle of supporting the Commission so that it can conduct these 'stress tests' with the Member States on the 143 nuclear reactors in operation in Europe; The principle of submitting by 15 April a precise timeline on the criteria adopted: independent experts, priority given to the safety of nuclear facilities that are intrinsically more dangerous by virtue of their location in seismic or coastal areas, and safety reports for the public; The principle of immediately shutting down plants that fail the 'stress tests'.
The European public expects our institution to be responsible and sensible, especially on such a controversial issue as atomic energy.
in writing. - I voted against.
It is completely incomprehensible that the PPE Group and others voted against saying that zero risk does not exist, against a progressive phase-out starting now, against going towards a near-100% energy-efficient renewables economy by 2050, against a nuclear-free future for Europe, and so on.
The final text was absolutely unacceptable, and I am glad the majority of the House supported us Greens in rejecting the joint resolution.
The serious nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi power station on 11 March caused the death of thousands of people, as well as unimaginable material damage to the entire Japanese economy.
This carnage is making every country in the world re-examine its position with regard to the use of atomic energy technologies.
I am in favour of more restrictive safety measures for nuclear power installations, in line with those applicable to the latest generation installations.
The European Union has already provided for stress tests to be carried out on all plants, including those in neighbouring states having existing relations with the Union.
We must be aware that in the decades to come, many countries will still depend on nuclear energy but, at the same time, we cannot allow there to be power plants in Europe that pose a risk to the population.
In fact, all the resolutions have been rejected, including the joint resolution, which we endorsed.
Moreover, given that the Commission will have to provide us with a road map, why not begin to think of real investment in fourth-generation nuclear power - clean nuclear, or fusion - or even begin to consider an overall energy plan?
We expect the Commission Communication to outline a road map on this subject and to try to give the European Union a clear direction at last in this sector.
The nuclear accident at the Fukushima power station has caused an enormous disaster, with the radioactive contamination also affecting many people who were in the vicinity of the power station and who suffered injuries.
In the light of this, it is important to ensure that all the necessary humanitarian and financial aid is provided and to lay down international safety rules that are as reliable as possible, in order to prevent other disasters like that in Japan in the future.
For this reason, I voted against the resolution, because it omitted the amendments calling upon the Member States to draw up possible strategies for abandoning nuclear power and immediately to inform regional and local cross-border authorities of their national programmes if their implementation could have a cross-border effect.
in writing. - Although this is a sensitive period of time just after the enormous problems with nuclear safety in Japan, nuclear energy remains a major contributor to energy supply cross the EU and globally.
We have not reached any agreement today on this resolution, which was intended to draw lessons from the nuclear disaster in Fukushima.
A majority in this House appears not to understand that it is perfectly technically and economically feasible, over a period of forty years, to generate our electricity completely sustainably through such measures as energy efficiency and reliance on the sun, wind, geothermal energy, water and biomass.
in writing. - I voted against the resolution in the final vote as I believe we need to debate this issue in the context of the overall EU energy strategy, not in the context of the Japanese nuclear tragedy.
I voted for this European Parliament resolution on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan, as its objective is to increase nuclear safety in the EU and not to ban the production and use of nuclear energy.
This is why I voted against all the amendments aimed at removing nuclear energy from Europe's energy mix.
Although I did not vote for imposing a moratorium on the construction of new nuclear reactors, I felt that, if such a moratorium were imposed, it ought to be limited only to the period of the 'stress test' which nuclear reactors in the EU will be undergoing.
This would allow the construction of new reactors to benefit from the conclusions of the stress tests, ensuring that nuclear safety will increase.
The European Union depends, to a large extent, on Member States' energy mix to fulfil its '20-20-20' target.
This proves that nature is unpredictable and that tsunamis cannot be banned, but it does not prove that nuclear energy is at fault.
Nuclear energy has a much safer record than any other source of energy.
Our main concern with nuclear energy should indeed be risk assessment and unitary safety procedures at a European level.
And while natural disasters cannot be prevented, nuclear energy is not a serious risk per se.
The real danger does not come from well serviced nuclear reactors, but from nuclear reactors under the wrong political control.
in writing. - I feel that this resolution was a knee-jerk reaction to the tragic situation in Japan, and did not allow enough time for debate of the issues surrounding the safety of nuclear power plants in the EU.
Nuclear power is a vital source of energy across Europe, with some Member States getting as much as 75% of their electricity from nuclear power, and a review of the safety of nuclear power plants should be a priority, including stress tests on existing plants.
in writing. - After the defeat of the joint motion for a resolution, I voted in favour of this text which, while not perfect, struck a good balance between nuclear safety and a pragmatic approach to the issue.
in writing. - I voted for this Verts/ALE Group resolution because all the other resolutions on the subject had fallen.
in writing. - I voted against this resolution, which I found almost naively pro-nuclear.
I voted in favour of this resolution.
Demonstrators in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen have expressed legitimate democratic aspirations and strong popular demand for political, economic and social reforms aimed at achieving genuine democracy, fighting corruption, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions.
The violence used by the governments of these countries against their own populations must have direct repercussions on their bilateral relations with the European Union.
The EU must review its policies towards those countries and make full and effective use of the existing support given through the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights and the Instrument for Stability, in order to urgently assist the countries and civil societies in the Middle East and in the Gulf in their transition towards democracy and respect for human rights.
A state cannot use violence against its own people and not be penalised by the European Union in the context of its bilateral relations.
Through this resolution, the European Union supports the people of Syria in their aspiration to genuinely lift the state of emergency in place since 1963, expresses its solidarity with all of the people in these countries, and calls on the European Union to redefine its relations according to the progress made in reforms.
I think that the European Union needs to promote democratic values more than ever and show solidarity with the peoples in the Southern Mediterranean countries in their aspiration for a democratic society.
The situation in the Arab countries reminds me of the fall of the Communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe.
The High Representative and Commission should firmly oppose the use of violence against demonstrators and exert pressure on the authorities in Syria, Yemen and Bahrain to commit to constructive political dialogue with the aim of resolving the situation.
The Union has this instrument available and I believe that it should use it as much as possible to support the establishment of democracy in the Arab countries.
The recent protests in several Arab countries show that non-democratic and authoritarian regimes cannot ensure credible stability, and that democratic values have a key role in economic and political partnerships.
I call on the authorities in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen to comply with international law on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It is vital that they start an open and significant process of political dialogue involving all democratic political forces and civil society as soon as possible, with the aim of preparing the way for real democracy, for the lifting of states of emergency, and for the implementation of real, ambitious and significant political, economic and social reforms, which are essential to long-term stability and development.
In this situation, we cannot overlook the religious element in the developments in the region, at a time when the Shi'ite opposition is supported by Iran, while the Sunni dynasty enjoys the support of the monarchies in the area.
Moreover, the close ties between Iran, Syria, Hamas and Hezbollah, as well as the religious tensions between the Sunnis and Alawites in Syria, should make us exercise caution because there is a huge risk that the escalation in violence will also push Syria towards civil war, with outside interference.
The Hama massacre in 1982, which included 20 000 Syrians among its victims, is a tragic warning in this regard, just as are the failures in Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq in terms of the way in which the West must act in a region whose very distinctive features cannot be ignored.
I believe that we need more diplomacy and less armed force, more concern for defending human rights and the protection of civilians and less concern for the electoral potential of external intervention, as well as greater attention on the poverty and corruption which these societies are faced with, especially in Yemen.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I condemn the violent repression of peaceful demonstrators carried out by security forces in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen.
I would like to express my support for, and solidarity with, the people of these countries, who, motivated by legitimate democratic aspirations, are showing great courage and determination.
It would be better for the authorities in these states to undertake concrete reforms, and to allow their nationals to enjoy standards of democracy, freedom and justice similar to the best in the world.
The example set throughout its existence gives the European Union a historical duty to speak out against all human rights violations and to fight for peoples' right to self-determination, both through denunciation, and through development aid.
The current situation in Bahrain - which is of strategic importance with regard to the equilibrium in the Gulf - and which, underneath the appearance of normality, is very tense, with the ongoing detention of people who are accused of nothing more than violating the right to free expression.
In Syria, protests in several cities have been brutally put down despite EU calls for rights of freedom of expression and association to be respected.
I therefore agree with the measures proposed in this resolution, not least the condemnation of those responsible for massacres in these countries, and hope that they have an effect in as short a time as possible so that the humiliation of their people can stop.
I also welcome the initiative to call on the UN Commission on Human Rights to condemn these violations of fundamental rights.
Firstly, because they are grouping different situations and countries together in the same resolution.
There are marked differences with what happened in Libya, where dialogue was replaced by military aggression, making any possibility of a peaceful solution to the conflict impossible.
The objectives are clear: to camouflage the movement of troops from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates into Bahrain to assist the oligarchic regime there, with the support of the United States - a country that keeps its main Persian Gulf fleet in Bahrain - and to repress the Bahraini people's fight for social change and democracy.
The same is happening in Yemen, where they are coming out in defence of a regime that is violently repressing its people, and their fight for democratic change and improved living conditions, in order to protect an ally in the so-called 'war on terror'.
This resolution is another example of the hypocrisy of the majority of Parliament.
The objectives are clear: to camouflage the movement of troops from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates into Bahrain to assist the oligarchic regime there, with the support of the United States - a country that keeps its main Persian Gulf fleet in Bahrain - and to repress the Bahraini people's fight for social change and democracy.
The same in Yemen, where they are coming out in defence of a regime that is violently repressing its people, and their fight for democratic change and improved living conditions, in order to protect an ally in the so-called 'war on terror'.
I voted in favour of this document, because following similar developments in other Arab countries, demonstrators in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen have expressed legitimate democratic aspirations and strong popular demands for political, economic and social reforms aimed at achieving genuine democracy, fighting corruption and nepotism, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions.
Therefore, the European Union and its Member States should support the peaceful democratic aspirations of people in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen, and the governments of these countries must not react by increasing violent repression.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution.
I believe the EU must reassess its bilateral relations with Syria, Bahrain and Yemen in the light of their violent repression of demonstrators, and talks on a future Association Agreement with Syria must be suspended.
I am also concerned about the presence of international troops in Bahrain and call for an investigation into the deaths of 54 protestors in Yemen.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that the European Union is in a position to endeavour, through diplomacy, to promote a process of democratic and peaceful change in Bahrain, Yemen and Syria.
I am on the side of the peoples of these countries, who want, as we all do, improved economic conditions, reduced social inequalities, the combating of corruption and nepotism, the implementation of democratic reforms, and the guaranteeing of fundamental human rights.
I support this claim by the EP that strongly condemns the violent repression by security forces of peaceful demonstrators in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen, and extends its condolences to the families of the victims; expresses its solidarity with the people in those countries, applauds their courage and determination, and strongly supports their legitimate democratic aspirations.
It also urges the authorities of Bahrain, Syria and Yemen to refrain from the use of violence against protestors and to respect their right to freedom of assembly and expression; condemns the interference by the authorities in Bahrain and Yemen in the provision of medical treatment and the denial and limiting of access to health facilities; stresses that those responsible for the loss of life and injuries caused should be held accountable and brought to justice; and calls on the authorities to immediately release all political prisoners, human rights defenders and journalists and all those detained in relation to their peaceful activities in the context of the protests.
The current state of affairs in several African countries, and also in Bahrain, Syria and Yemen, is the result of the people's legitimate aspiration for political, economic and social reforms aimed at bringing about a genuine democracy.
It is well known that repressive laws restricting citizens in the exercise of their civil and political rights have always been in force in those countries.
The excessive use of force by the governments against demonstrators has violated every single international convention on civil and political rights.
I join with the rapporteur in condemning the violent crackdown on peaceful demonstrators by the security forces in those countries, crushing their legitimate democratic aspirations.
We must express our complete solidarity and support the courage and determination that these peoples are demonstrating to the entire world.
in writing. - The situation in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen is an unpredictable ongoing process and not a bloody but unstoppable march toward democracy.
The political background in Syria and Yemen has been, for a long time, authoritarian or outright dictatorial.
The need for democracy in countries with a long record of political oppression should not become the undoing of future democratic process.
This does not mean that the Assad or Saleh regimes should be propped up, but it means that the solution should be a negotiated exit strategy rather than a violent and uncontrolled regime change.
Caution and clear headed policies are much more appropriate in countries and regions that could turn from one system of oppression to another.
The European Parliament today adopted a resolution calling for the EU's relations with Syria, Bahrain and Yemen to be reassessed in order to take account of the popular uprisings in those countries.
I therefore abstained on this text.
This vote by our Parliament, which follows several resolutions since the Jasmine Revolution in Tunisia, is proof that the events in the Arab world are a wave, the size and longevity of which no one can predict.
Admittedly, the situation is different in each of the countries, but ultimately, these popular movements are the expression of an unshakeable desire for democracy, freedom and justice.
I believe that it is important to increase the effectiveness of development aid, and that there is a need for a coherent policy of support in areas such as trade and development cooperation, climate change, agriculture, etc.
The EU needs to follow a common position towards the least developed countries (LDCs), and should not allow economic and financial crises to compromise the development of partnerships with the LDCs.
It is essential that the global commitment to addressing the specific needs of the LDCs, as regards the sustainability of development in all of its economic, social and environmental aspects, and to supporting them in their efforts to eradicate poverty, be reaffirmed during this conference.
Ahead of the Istanbul conference in May, the EU has reaffirmed its support for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in developing countries, and once more confirmed its commitment to provide specific aid programmes.
Although notable progress has been recorded in some countries and regions, the goal of halving the level of poverty in the world is still far from being achieved.
Eleven million children still die every year from treatable diseases, the greater part of them before the age of five; one person in four has no access to drinking water; 114 million children still have no access to primary education; approximately 600 million women are still illiterate; and just as many people have no access to progress.
The failure to achieve the goals established in 2001 will not discourage the industrialised nations, which, on the contrary, will continue to ensure that countries that need aid are at the top of the international agenda, promoting the supply of new targeted sources of finance and the creation of cooperation programmes.
in writing. - I voted against the joint motion on the Fourth United Nations conference on least developed countries because the motion is not focused enough on the problem of international aid ineffectiveness.
If we are not able to answer these difficult questions, we will never be able to use the EUR 60 billion in development aid for the benefit of the least developed countries.
The Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries should focus on policy coherence for development, because it is an important factor for reducing poverty.
It is deplorable that 48 countries are currently classified as least developed countries (LDCs), and that 75% of the 800 million inhabitants of these countries live on less than USD 2 per day.
Out of the 51 underdeveloped countries, where 78% of the population live on less than USD 1.25 a day, only three have moved out of this category in recent years.
The situation is worrying as these countries are the most vulnerable to ordeals such as the financial and food crises and climate change, while also facing extreme poverty, a lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this resolution, as I believe that the Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries needs to put forward measures to make the integration of these countries into the global economy possible, and to improve their access to EU markets.
The European Commission should consider increasing aid to these countries in order to minimise costs resulting from the liberalisation of their markets.
Despite the technical and financial assistance provided over the years to the least developed countries (LDCs), it is essential to recognise that these countries have not succeeded in lifting themselves out of this status, and still have permanent weaknesses and needs.
The Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries (LDC-IV) will take place in Istanbul, Turkey, on 9-13 May this year.
The EU, which has always led the way in supporting developing countries through poverty eradication programmes - for which financial allocations have trebled over the last few years - is very involved in the organisation of this meeting.
We would emphasise the importance of the alternative resolution tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, as well as the amendments tabled to the joint resolution - and unfortunately rejected by the majority - that focus on, inter alia, issues such as: food sovereignty, agricultural development, and the need to put an end to the EU's blackmailing of a number of developing countries on the basis of so-called Economic Partnership Agreements.
It is in breaking with the foundations of this system, and in a genuine and solidarity-based policy of cooperation and development aid, that the possibility of the emancipation of these people and the development of these countries lies.
More than 40 countries in the world belong to the category of least developed countries.
Despite this, however, many problems persist: increasing dependence on imported goods, poverty, the low level of human capital and vulnerability to climate change and natural disasters.
With regard to the position of the EU, it is important to focus on coherent external policies.
The Commission document of 16 February is exhaustive, but it must take a more critical approach.
I voted in favour of this document, because since the Third United Nations conference on the least developed countries (LDC-III) and the adoption of the Brussels Action Programme, some positive steps have been taken, for example, the 'Everything But Arms' initiative and the increases in Official Development Assistance, which doubled between 2000 and 2008, and direct foreign investment, which rose from USD 6 to USD 33 billion, enabling 19 countries to achieve a growth rate of 3%.
I would stress the need to give priority to food security, agriculture, infrastructure, capacity building, inclusive economic growth, access to technologies and human and social development in the LDCs.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution.
I believe that LDC-IV should focus on policy coherence for development as an important factor for policy shift, at national and international level, and call, therefore, for policy making in all areas - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance - to support the development needs of LDCs in order to fight poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods.
I believe that the Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries needs to put forward the measures necessary to make the integration of these countries into the global economy possible, and to improve their access to EU markets.
However, despite everyone's efforts, the objectives have not been achieved, although Cape Verde stands out here, as it has achieved some success and increased its citizens' quality of life to higher levels than the other least developed countries.
The economic crisis in the developed world has brought in its wake trade restrictions which, in turn, are putting an economic stranglehold on less developed countries.
Families on the verge of absolute poverty have seen a 15% rise over the last six months in food prices which, according to World Bank data, have risen by 29% compared with 2009.
This specific motion for a resolution, which I supported, emphasises and highlights specific policies to reverse this situation, both at national and at international level in numerous sectors, such as trade, fisheries, the environment, the agricultural sector, climate change, energy, investments and the financial sector.
The European Parliament aims to make its contribution to the Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries through this resolution.
I support this contribution, as I also believe that this conference should foster coherent development policies by promoting measures in all areas - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance - in order to provide strong support for the development needs of the least developed countries (LDCs), to combat poverty, and to ensure decent incomes and subsistence.
This is a country with few resources, but which was able to work for growth and combat poverty.
Between 2000 and 2010, the average human development index rating for the least developed countries grew by a mere 0.04%.
I share the rapporteur's opinion in emphasising the importance of the Fourth United Nations conference.
Since then, the number of LDCs has increased twofold, and only three (Botswana, Maldives and Cape Verde) have been able to graduate from the group.
The critical situation has been exacerbated further by the economic crisis.
Its effects have affected LDCs to a large extent and caused a further deepening of the problems occurring there.
There is a need for a deep, comprehensive analysis and diagnosis of the situation of LDCs and concrete proposals for solutions aimed at improving the living conditions of the citizens of these countries in the short term, and at leaving the group in the long term.
As a member of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to draw particular attention to the lack of control mechanisms for work which has been undertaken.
As one of the authors of the resolution on the Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries (LDCs), I believe that it is absolutely crucial for the European Parliament to demonstrate an unwavering commitment to the inhabitants of the LDCs.
The increase in the number of states falling into that category (since 1971, the number of LDCs has risen from 25 to 48) requires the international community to redouble its efforts to meet the objective of halving the number of LDCs by 2020.
From this point of view, it is essential to ensure true policy coherence between policies directly affecting the LDCs, such as development aid, trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance, in order to reduce poverty and guarantee decent incomes and livelihoods for the inhabitants of the LDCs.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the Fourth United Nations conference on the least developed countries.
In that resolution, the European Parliament upholds the principle of coherence between the various EU policies in the field of development aid and cooperation.
This means that in the EU's relations with the least developed countries, policy in all areas - including trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance - must be designed in such a way as to support their development needs.
An inexorable gap is opening up between the least developed countries and the world economy, creating a vicious circle in which the victims are the populations.
The solutions are also well known, but I regret that the statements of good intentions are rarely translated into action.
I am voting for this report, as I support Iceland's accession to the EU, provided that the government succeeds in securing the support of its citizens for this national political commitment.
I welcome the prospect of Iceland joining the EU, because Iceland has a strong democratic tradition and civic culture, which will enable it to be admitted into the band of EU Member States unhindered.
I believe that Iceland's accession to the EU would enhance the Union's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in Northern Europe and in the Arctic, contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region.
Iceland is already an active participant in the Nordic Council as well as in the EU's Northern Dimension Policy, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council and the Arctic Council, which is the main multilateral forum for cooperation in the Arctic.
I voted for the 2010 progress report on Iceland drafted by my colleague, Cristian Preda, because I think the time has come for this state's EU prospects to be assessed.
Throughout the negotiations with the EU, the Icelandic authorities have demonstrated a genuine commitment to this process and a strong political will to fulfil all the accession criteria in good time.
The protection of human rights and cooperation with leading international organisations are top-priority items on Iceland's political agenda.
In this context, I welcome the European Commission's initiative to start accession negotiations with Iceland this June.
This report provides a good overview of the current state of relations between the European Union and Iceland.
It has been hard hit by the economic, financial and banking crisis.
Since the start of the accession process, we have begun an open and constructive dialogue with the Icelandic Government, which has also expressed a desire to join the euro area.
Iceland has been achieving good results in safeguarding human rights and ensuring a high level of cooperation with international mechanisms for the protection of human rights.
Iceland's accession to the EU will therefore strengthen the Union's role in promoting and defending human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.
Through its experience, Iceland may also make a valuable contribution to EU policy in the field of renewable energy, particularly in the areas of the exploitation of geothermal energy, environmental protection and combating climate change.
Iceland's accession to the EU will improve the EU's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern Europe and the Arctic, through contributions to multilateral governance and sustainable political solutions for the region.
in writing. - I voted against this report.
In the rush to enlargement, I fear that this Parliament and the EU institutions are ignoring issues of strategic importance to Member States.
I voted in favour of the '2010 progress report on Iceland' as I believe that we need to support the accession of one of the oldest European democracies to the EU, provided that the necessary requirements are met, such as the abolition of whaling and the trading of products extracted from whales.
This motion for a resolution relates to the 2010 progress report on Iceland's advances towards European Union membership.
Negotiations on Iceland's accession started in July 2010.
I believe that the necessary conditions need to be created for completing Iceland's accession process and ensuring the success of this accession: this is a country with a strong democratic tradition and a robust civic culture, and its accession will strengthen the Union's role in promoting the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the world.
Iceland belongs to the European Free Trade Association, and has a market economy that could provide certain advantages to the EU, specifically in the area of renewable energy.
We therefore await the position of the people of Iceland on accession, so that we can take this position into account in the future.
We await future developments, specifically the referendum on 9 April 2011, for a clearer position on the country's membership.
I wish to explain why I am abstaining on this text, as I do whenever a report concerning accession negotiations with a European country is voted on here.
Everyone knows that Iceland wants to adopt the euro without being a member of the European Union, which is stupid when we know what implications that has, and that Iceland is a member of the European Economic Area and of the Schengen area.
Iceland can bring a valuable contribution to EU policies due to its experience in the field of renewable energies, particularly as regards the utilisation of geothermal energy, protection of the environment and measures to deal with climate change.
Iceland's accession to the EU would enhance the Union's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in Northern Europe and in the Arctic, contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region.
I had to give my wholehearted support to the resolution on the 2010 progress report on Iceland put to the vote in Parliament.
Its strong civic and democratic tradition, the progress made in strengthening the independence of the judiciary, and the particular attention paid to the economic aspect, which is increasingly on course to meet the criteria laid down by Europe, make it a country whose accession to the EU can only be considered positively, not least because it would strengthen the Union's role within the Arctic Council.
The safeguarding of human rights, the strengthening of the legislative environment with regard to freedom of expression and access to information, and the high rates of investment in education, research and development, aimed at tackling the high level of youth unemployment, demonstrate the industriousness of the country and its firm desire to align itself with Europe.
It will be up to the people of Iceland to have the final say: they will have to vote in a referendum, and I hope that they will opt in favour of joining our great European family.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which, among other things, 'welcomes the agreement achieved between the representatives of the governments of Iceland, the Netherlands and the UK on the Icesave issue, notably on guaranteeing the repayment of costs incurred in payment of minimum guarantees to depositors in branches of Landsbanki Islands hf.
in the UK and the Netherlands; welcomes the approval by a three-quarters majority of the agreement by the Icelandic Parliament on 17 February 2011'; and 'takes note of the decision of the President of Iceland to refer the bill to a referendum and hopes for an end to the infringement procedure which started on 26 May 2010, brought by the EFTA Surveillance Authority against the government of Iceland'.
I voted against these repeated shows of strength against the Icelandic people, and the text's crude logic of liberal normalisation.
Iceland is also achieving very good results where the protection of human rights is concerned.
However, the consent of the Icelandic population is required before we can talk about the accession of Iceland to the EU.
In economic terms, an OECD report from May 2010 says that Iceland has succeeded in consolidating its economy and, despite the financial crisis, its per capita income still leads the world.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
Of the countries seeking accession to the European Union, it is surely the best prepared country, not only because it has similar democratic principles and values to the Union's Member States, but also because it has the same or higher development standards.
I voted in favour of this 2010 progress report as I believe that, once the necessary accession requirements have been met, among which I would emphasise the abolition of whaling and the trading of products extracted from whales, the EU will gain from the accession of this country.
However, the question of this country's accession should be duly framed within the Union's common policies, the common fisheries policy in particular.
Iceland has been a candidate country for European Union membership since 2010.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I am convinced that that country has a solid democratic tradition and civic culture, and that its accession will further enhance the EU's role as a worldwide promoter and defender of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as I support Iceland's accession to the EU.
I would also like to express my concern about growing ethnic tensions, and about the lack of political dialogue and freedom of the press.
The bilateral issues need to be resolved by the parties concerned in the spirit of good neighbourliness, above all, taking European interests into account.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this motion to wind up the debate on statements by the European Council and the Commission on the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM).
I believe it is a very balanced motion.
It expresses concern about the current political situation in FYROM, including the boycott of the national parliament by the opposition parties, and about the risk that these developments could adversely affect the country's EU agenda.
The motion also congratulates the country on the anniversary of the Ohrid Agreement, which remains the cornerstone of its inter-ethnic relations, and calls on the government to foster a comprehensive dialogue between the ethnic communities.
I also appreciated the positive evaluation in the motion on FYROM's continuous efforts to stabilise the region.
As a member of the European Parliament's delegation for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I am keeping a close eye on the progress of that country and of its application to join the European Union.
The bilateral problems between that country and Greece must not hinder the start of accession negotiations.
In 2005, the European Council granted candidate status to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia but has failed ever since to set a date for the opening of negotiations, in spite of the substantial progress made by that country on its path towards the EU.
A lack of dialogue between the government and opposition parties in the country is preventing an agreement on the implementation of structural reforms from being reached.
I believe that the Macedonian Government must involve the opposition parties more in decision making and ensure an open and constructive dialogue on all the problems that this country is currently facing.
I voted for the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia because I think that the Balkans' EU perspective is vital to ensuring the region's stability.
In this context, cooperation with Greece is of paramount importance.
The dispute about the former Yugoslav Republic's name plays a key role in the discussions on the accession negotiations, as it is one of the obstacles preventing the negotiations from starting.
This is why the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Greece must find a solution to the issue about what to call the state.
So far, Greece has proved itself to be a trustworthy discussion partner with regard to the other chapters.
The process of EU enlargement is a powerful tool for peace, stability and reconciliation in this region.
I am particularly concerned about the persistently high levels of unemployment, particularly among young people, a problem that is shared by many countries in the region.
I would like to call upon the government to rapidly implement more effective measures to improve public investment focused on employment policies and the use of the workforce in good quality, stable and decent jobs.
I welcome the adoption of the national strategy for sustainable development, but more efforts need to be made towards enforcing legislation in the environmental field, and there needs to be adequate funding set aside for this purpose.
I would like to call for closer cooperation on transnational environmental issues based on EU standards, particularly in the area of water quality, waste management and the protection of nature.
From experience of enlargement to date, cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans and their integration process, especially at a time of economic crisis, should contribute towards the sustainable development and economic and social prosperity of the citizens in the enlargement countries and the Union.
In this particular case, as regards the question of the name, the report should encourage respect and support for the procedure to find a commonly acceptable solution, under the aegis of the UN.
I voted in favour of this resolution, as it once again recommends that the Council make a decision on opening accession negotiations to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Council granted this state the status of a candidate country in 2005, but since then, it has not set a date for opening negotiations, despite the substantial progress that this country has made on its path towards the EU.
in writing. - (PT) There have been some delays in the process of integrating the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
On 16 December 2005, the Council granted the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia candidate country for accession status.
The interested parties have to resolve bilateral issues in a spirit of good neighbourliness.
All players must increase their efforts and show responsibility and determination in resolving all outstanding issues which are hampering the process of accession for the candidate country and the EU's own policy in the region.
I voted in favour of this document because in 2005, the European Council granted candidate status to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia but has failed ever since to set a date for the opening of negotiations, in spite of the substantial progress made by that country on its path towards the EU; because bilateral issues should not represent and be used as an obstacle in the accession process, although they should be settled before membership; and because the continuation of the accession process would contribute to the stability of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and would further strengthen inter-ethnic dialogue.
Bilateral issues need to be resolved by the parties concerned in a good neighbourly spirit and taking overall EU interests into account.
All the key players and parties concerned should step up their efforts and demonstrate responsibility and determination to solve all outstanding issues which are not only hindering the accession process of the candidate country, and the EU's own policy in the region, but could also have repercussions on inter-ethnic relations, regional stability and economic development.
The document urges the authorities responsible to strengthen the independence and freedom of the media, applying equal standards to all of them and improving the transparency of their ownership.
I am concerned that there is insufficient dialogue between the government and opposition parties and a general climate of distrust and confrontation.
It is necessary to continue reform of the judiciary in order to ensure its professionalism, efficiency and independence from political pressures, expand the fight against corruption and improve the business environment.
Macedonia has made significant progress in the democratisation of the state, due directly to the political will to become a full member of the family of European nations.
The European Commission has evaluated this progress and, for the second year running now, has called upon the European Council to open accession negotiations with Macedonia.
These disputes must not block the accession process for Macedonia, all the more so since continuing the accession process would promote stability and strengthen yet further the dialogue between the ethnic communities in Macedonia.
Of course, Macedonia has a great deal to do yet in order to reform governmental and judicial institutions, successfully combat organised crime and corruption, and develop democratic dialogues in society.
Of course, the acceptance of any new Member State, Macedonia included, into the EU will only take place when all the requirements have been satisfied, and only with the unambiguous agreement of the EU institutions and EU Member States.
The motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on which Parliament has voted, has been approved by a large majority and with the agreement of several political groups.
Judicial reform, the fight against corruption, and public administration and prison reform are some of the important achievements as regards compliance with the acquis communautaire.
I therefore believe that, despite the positive results, attention must continue to be paid to the institutional question, which is very fragile and is being put to the test.
It is essential to send Macedonia a positive signal regarding its future within the European Union in order to maintain the European momentum and further the political dialogue that has been initiated.
The name issue existing between Macedonia and Greece is exclusively a bilateral issue that should not interfere with the opening of accession negotiations.
In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I contributed amendments concerning the public administration, the justice system and anti-corruption action.
The adoption of a national strategy for public administration reform and the creation of the stabilisation and association agreement's subcommittee are positive steps to ensure the capacities and professionalism of the public administration.
in writing. - I voted for the report on Macedonia and welcome the continued efforts in the fight against corruption, manifested, amongst other things, by implementation of the second round of GRECO recommendations and the entry into force of the amendments to the Criminal Code.
I voted against this arrogant and shoddy text.
On 9 April 2001, Macedonia was the first country in the Western Balkans to enter into a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU.
The status of reforms since 2001 can be judged positively in many respects.
Only the dispute with Greece over its name is blocking Macedonia's accession to the EU, and it is to be hoped that this can be resolved in the near future.
However, I abstained from voting because some aspects of the report are very unbalanced.
This resolution basically says that the EP shares the assessment by the Commission's 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and regrets that the Council has not taken a decision on the opening of accession negotiations, as recommended by the Commission for a second year in a row and in line with previous Parliament resolutions.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that the moment has come to open genuine and proper accession negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
I am in favour of this resolution because the crisis situation in Côte d'Ivoire should be brought to a swift end, as it has already resulted in a large number of deaths.
I voted in favour of this resolution because over the past four months, Côte d'Ivoire has been plunged into a deep political crisis stemming from the refusal of the incumbent President, Laurent Gbagbo, to relinquish power to the legitimate President, Alassane Ouattara, despite the fact that the latter won the November 2010 presidential poll and has been recognised as the victor by the international community, following validation of the results by the United Nations.
I agree with the need for swift international political action to address the humanitarian situation in Côte d'Ivoire and prevent a new migration crisis in the region.
The Commission and the Member States must coordinate their efforts with other international donors in order to respond to the urgent needs of the population of Côte d'Ivoire and its neighbouring countries.
I would like to express my full support for President Ouattara, his government and the people of Côte d'Ivoire in their task of reconciliation, recovery and sustainable development.
In line with the example that it has given throughout its existence, the European Union has a historic duty to speak out against all violations of human rights and to foster respect for the right to the self-determination of peoples, both through denunciation and through development programmes.
We have recently seen an upsurge in violence and verified massacres in Côte d'Ivoire, where the process of democratisation is not being accepted by all Ivorians.
Parliament has adopted several resolutions on the political situation in this country, especially on 16 December 2010.
I therefore agree with the measures presented here and am voting in favour of this proposal, as I believe that Parliament should advocate a foreign policy based on values, and not solely on economic interests.
We did not vote for this resolution, and we remain concerned about the situation of war in Côte d'Ivoire, the country's economic paralysis and the high levels of violence that are affecting the people, which has turned into a humanitarian crisis.
These last four months of misery following the elections have shown how regrettable it is that the international community, including the EU, has not made sufficient use of diplomatic channels for a peaceful political solution to the crisis.
Yet it is true that Mr Ouattara, a Muslim of non-Ivorian origin trained at the IMF in Washington, can only elicit your support.
The resolution praises the work of the United Nations Operations in Côte d'Ivoire (UNOCI) to the skies, even though the UN itself was obliged to ask France for assistance to safeguard its mission and, in particular, to ensure the protection of foreign nationals.
Indeed, you only support the results that suit you.
I voted in favour of this document, because over the past four months, Côte d'Ivoire has been plunged into a deep political crisis stemming from the refusal by incumbent President, Laurent Gbagbo, to relinquish power to the legitimate President, Alassane Ouattara, despite the fact that the latter won the November 2010 presidential poll and has been recognised as the victor by the international community, following validation of the results by the United Nations.
Since mid-February, fighting has intensified both in the capital and in the west of the country, with alarming reports indicating the increasing use of heavy artillery against civilians.
Parliament therefore calls on President Ouattara to facilitate peace and national reconciliation.
The serious political and institutional crisis that has rocked Côte d'Ivoire for several months now has given rise to a wave of violence that seems to have no end in sight.
For some months now, Côte d'Ivoire has been the scene of urban guerrilla warfare between the supporters of the outgoing President and the people.
in writing. - I welcome this resolution which urges all the political forces in Côte d'Ivoire to respect the will of the people expressed freely in the results of the presidential elections of 28 November 2010 that were announced by the CEI and certified by the UNSG Special Representative, and which recognised Alassane Dramane Ouattara as President-elect of Côte d'Ivoire.
Those who are responsible must not go unpunished, and we must do everything in our power to identify and prosecute them, at an international level if need be, for crimes against the civilian population, whereby the EU will be able to provide the necessary support for the investigations.
It is important to maintain international pressure, for example, by condemning the human rights abuses and crimes against humanitarian law in the strongest possible terms and by imposing sanctions.
The serious human rights abuses and acts of violence committed by the defeated President Gbagbo must be condemned by the EU in the strongest possible terms.
However, it is also important that violent crimes on both sides are punished; in other words, also those of which the new President Ouattara has been accused.
Given the political crisis, with the serious social consequences which this country is experiencing, I welcome the commitment undertaken by the EU, and expressed by Commissioner Georgieva, to help resolve the humanitarian crisis.
In the last four months, Côte d'Ivoire has plunged into a deep political crisis.
Fighting has intensified since mid-February both in the capital and in the western part of the country, and alarming news of the increasing use of heavy artillery against civilians continues to reach us.
Up to now, diplomatic efforts by the international community have come to nought, despite the validation of the election result by the United Nations.
Laurent Gbagbo must resign immediately and cede power to Alassane Ouattara, the legitimately elected President.
For four months, Côte d'Ivoire has been plunged in a deep political crisis caused by the refusal of ex-President Laurent Gbagbo to hand over power to the legitimate President, Alassane Ouattara.
This situation is having particularly disastrous humanitarian consequences.
While I welcome the Commission's decision to increase its humanitarian aid fivefold, thereby taking European aid up to EUR 30 million, it is essential for the European Union to do all it can to help the most vulnerable population groups and to monitor their changing needs.
I was anxious to support this resolution, which clearly condemns the atrocities committed against the civilian population by the militias loyal to the outgoing Ivorian President, Laurent Gbagbo.
Ending the conflict by diplomatic means would have been preferable, but the level of violence reached in Abidjan and the hard-line, self-destructive attitude of the deposed President demanded UN intervention in order to protect the civilians and to help the legitimate President, Alassane Ouattara, assume power.
Lastly, I believe the EU must continue to honour its commitment to provide long-term support to Côte d'Ivoire in order to aid national reconciliation and to help rebuild and stabilise the country.
I am voting for this report, as it has important objectives like the liberalisation of visas, free trade agreements, contacts with civil society and the non-use of force as regards EU involvement in conflicts, as well as self-determination and territorial integrity.
The Eastern Partnership (EaP) is a meaningful political framework for deepening relations with partner countries, based on principles of shared ownership and responsibility.
I think that the most important consideration should be the commitment of partner states rather than geographical location.
The countries in the east and south must enjoy the same opportunities, making it necessary to rebalance the Neighbourhood Policy.
I voted in favour of this resolution because the review of the Eastern Dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy includes such major objectives as democratic processes, good governance and stability, economic integration, the environment, climate change and energy security.
The European Parliament is of the opinion that combating corruption, in particular, in the judiciary and the police, should be a top priority for the EU in the development of its relations with the eastern partners.
It is very important for the organisations of civil society to actively carry on their work, particularly in the field of human rights, promoting democratic processes and ensuring media freedom.
I would like to emphasise the importance of freedom of expression and of free and independent media, including the Internet, for the development of democracies.
I would also like to stress the importance of trade unions and social dialogue as part of the democratic development of the eastern partners.
The Commission's reports on the ENP not only depict the real benefits of the policy of good neighbourliness, but also its challenges.
The ENP needs to be revised and a different approach adopted to the way in which the European Union responds to the progress made by neighbouring countries in terms of socio-economic reforms by giving them financial and political support and adapting it to the specific needs of each country.
The Eastern Partnership offers a political framework for consolidating relations between the EU and its eastern neighbours and the continuation of the socio-economic reforms in partner countries.
The progress made by each country must be assessed using a comparative analysis based on predefined criteria, but not without factoring in each country's specific features. 'A European perspective including Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union' could constitute a driving force for reforms in these countries.
Parliament must play an important role both in establishing the assessment criteria and in strengthening freedom and democracy in the neighbouring partner countries.
Although I am immensely pleased with the results obtained in these two reports, I do rather regret the fact that Parliament and the Commission have not made the most of this opportunity, for once, to differentiate the countries of the ENP to the east from the countries that will potentially become our EU southern ENP partners.
The EU's goals are very broad and are based on an extension to neighbouring countries in order to create a large area for the free movement of people and goods.
In these circumstances, the EU's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) has a vital role in its strategy for development and growth.
Several instruments and resolutions have been adopted to this end, particularly the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) and the crucial choices of the common foreign and security policy.
I am therefore pleased with the adoption of this report and the proposed measures, particularly the strengthening of funding and cooperation from various sectors, along with the holding of a second summit of the Eastern Partnership during the second half of 2011.
I would like to point out the need for the EU to step up its dialogue with civil society organisations in these countries, fostering free trade and promoting stability, encouraging the sharing of experience and mobility between the Member States and those countries, and promoting multilateral dialogue.
I voted in favour of this resolution, because the review of the Eastern Dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy includes such fundamental goals as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance.
It stresses that the ENP is still a framework of strategic importance for deepening and strengthening relations with our closest partners so as to support their political, social and economic reforms, and underlines the importance of maintaining the principle of joint ownership in the design and implementation of programmes and actions.
I would like to stress that economic reforms must go hand in hand with political reforms and that good governance can only be achieved through an open and transparent decision-making process based on democratic institutions.
It is particularly important to foster further regional cooperation in the Black Sea space and enhance EU policies towards the Black Sea region, in particular, by launching a fully-fledged EU strategy for the Black Sea and ensuring that there are the necessary financial and human resources for its effective implementation.
I endorse the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy, mainly because it is needed to make a substantial contribution to ensuring that human rights and political principles are more strongly integrated into the analysis of the political situation in third countries.
It underlines the positive developments concerning human rights and democratisation in some partner countries and some negative developments in others, particularly in Belarus.
For all these reasons, I support the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The review of the neighbourhood policy must continue to resolve the specific problems which the regions located at the European Union's border have to face.
This is why I have proposed that the regions located at the EU border, which have borders with at least two non-EU states, should be regarded as 'platform' regions and supported accordingly.
The neighbourhood policy needs to take into account the capacity of the regions located within the EU, but which have external borders, to tackle the problems which are much more complex.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution and encourage the countries in the region to cooperate more closely with each other and to engage in an enhanced and prolonged dialogue, at all relevant levels, regarding areas such as freedom, security and justice and, in particular, border management, migration and asylum, the fight against organised crime, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration, terrorism, money laundering and drugs trafficking, as well as police and judicial cooperation.
I voted against.
The region of the South Caucasus, in particular, is characterised by a series of conflicts, the final solution of which is judged even by experts to be extremely difficult in some cases.
The European Neighbourhood Policy is an instrument for ensuring stability and promoting peaceful and democratic structures, as well as for deepening bilateral relations with the countries surrounding the EU.
In the countries of the South Caucasus, in particular, there is much to do, especially since the region is repeatedly the subject of conflict.
What the European Neighbourhood Policy is not, and nor should it be, is a preliminary stage of enlargement policy.
The ultimate goal of an effective neighbourhood policy is to guarantee peace.
The Eastern Partnership is a political framework which is important for deepening relations with and between partner countries, based on the principle of shared duties and responsibilities.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I also believe that strengthening relations between all countries, as is recommended here, requires greater common commitment and further progress towards good governance and democratic standards.
As we have seen, European Neighbourhood Policy has very much led to a strengthening of relations with partner countries and brought many tangible benefits for the common good.
Challenges still remain, however, and the focus should now be on the priorities for action, with more effective benchmarks, in particular, as regards the Eastern Partnership.
I should like to see a strategic review of European Neighbourhood Policy that is based on the Union's values, which are against oppressive regimes, and that supports the legitimate democratic aspirations of the Eastern peoples.
Since its creation, the European Neighbourhood Policy has brought tangible benefits to all parties involved.
The Eastern Partnership is focused on the development of democracy, good governance and stability, economic integration and on achieving closer relations with EU policy.
Since the creation of the ENP, progress has been noticeable in the field of human rights, the democratisation of public life and economic reforms in many partner countries.
Support should be expressed for the EURONEST Parliamentary Assembly by highlighting its role in strengthening democracy and the development of cooperation with the countries of the Eastern Partnership.
The resolution of the European Parliament on the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy is to meet the challenges that have emerged in recent months in our neighbourhood, both in the Eastern and the Southern Dimension.
The time has come for solidarity with our neighbours.
Despite the differences, most countries in the neighbourhood share common characteristics: limited freedom, or no freedom at all, and a lack of success in modernisation.
The allocation of additional, generous funds in order to build a stable EU neighbourhood seems unavoidable.
Poland, which has historical experience in transformation of its political-economic system, may serve as a good guide and model for both eastern and southern EU neighbours in the current policy.
The review of the ENP and the Eastern Partnership should set out priorities for specific action from each partner, along with benchmarks and differentiation based on performance and the results achieved.
A strong focus on training, education, research and mobility is needed in order to address the socio-economic problems of the region.
Lastly, I would like to highlight the support that the EU has given to Belarusian civil society in the strengthening of democratic and social reforms so as to enable its participation in the ENP and other sectoral policies.
It is also important to point out the need to increase the funds allocated to this policy, and to make better use of them.
The same cannot be said of good governance, judicial reform and democracy, which are nonetheless headline objectives of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
This text has the merit of proposing solutions for radically rethinking this policy.
I hope that the European Commission and the Council will be able to take inspiration from it.
This has shown that Europe can be proactive if it wants to be, and that it can remain united around an ideal.
I now challenge the Commission to demonstrate the ambition that this moment demands in its review process on 10 May, with a neighbourhood policy that is tailor-made to each state, with clear benchmarks and careful consideration.
This will allow a future Mediterranean Economic Area with the new democracies in the south, and I hope that the good atmosphere and cooperation that have marked the work on this subject will lead to the permanent involvement of Parliament in planning and evaluating this policy.
in writing. - I voted against this motion.
The recent events in the Southern Mediterranean region, which began with Tunisia in December 2010, have brought a new urgency to the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP).
The strengthening of democracy, rule of law, good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights and basic freedoms are essential elements in the political dialogue between the EU and its southern neighbours.
The EU's goals are very broad and are based on an extension to neighbouring countries in order to create a large area for the free movement of people and goods.
In these circumstances, the EU's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) has a vital role in its strategy for development and growth.
Several instruments and resolutions have been adopted to this end, particularly the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) and the crucial choices of the common foreign and security policy.
However, the review of the ENP now has a greater importance in the context of the events in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean.
The EU should draw lessons from the events in the south, particularly in Tunisia and Egypt, and revise its democracy and human rights support policy so as to create an implementation mechanism for the human rights clauses in all agreements with third countries.
The revision of the ENP should give priority to criteria relating to the independence of the judiciary, respect for basic freedoms, pluralism and freedom of the press, and the fight against corruption.
In the light of the recent events in the Mediterranean basin and of their direct and indirect consequences for European countries, we must carry out a swift and thorough review of European Neighbourhood Policy.
Europe's new strategy must be based on a redefinition of the resources available for the Mediterranean, provide for an increase in financial commitments to facilitate political, economic and social reform in the countries of the region, and press for resources relating to immigration.
Moreover, as regards the radical changes affecting our southern neighbours, I believe that the moment has come to adopt a new European approach with the aim not only of defending democracy but also of taking concrete measures to alleviate migratory pressures and to guarantee the security of energy supply.
In this context, it is essential to lay the foundations, as soon as possible, for a new and strengthened partnership with our neighbouring countries to the south: a partnership aimed at promoting the stability, economic development and democratic transition of the area.
With this in mind, I believe that the European Union must play a key role in the geopolitical context of the region.
I voted in favour of this document because it highlights the importance of setting up a task force, involving Parliament, in response to the calls for monitoring of the democratic transition processes made by actors for democratic change, in particular, as regards free and democratic elections and institution building, including an independent judiciary.
It also calls on the EU to lend strong support to the process of political and economic reform in the region by using all existing instruments within the framework of the Eastern Neighbourhood Policy and, wherever necessary, by adopting new ones in order to assist in the most effective way possible the process of democratic transition, with a focus on respect for fundamental freedoms, good governance, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, thus responding to the needs and expectations of the peoples of our southern neighbours.
We must ensure that we provide better targeted assistance, particularly aimed at civil society and local communities, in keeping with the bottom-up approach.
However, any increase in the funds allocated should be based on an accurate assessment of needs and consistent with an increase in the effectiveness of the programmes implemented, tailored and prioritised according to the requirements of each beneficiary country.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution which recalls, in the light of current events in the Southern Mediterranean, particularly in Tunisia and Egypt, the ENP's failure to promote and safeguard human rights in third countries; urges the EU to draw lessons from those events and to revise its democracy and human rights support policy so as to create an implementation mechanism for the human rights clause included in all agreements with third countries; insists that the review of the ENP must prioritise criteria relating to the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental freedoms, pluralism and freedom of the press and the fight against corruption; and calls for better coordination with the Union's other policies vis-à-vis those countries.
I voted against.
For some years, the EU has focused in its neighbourhood policy on economic liberalisation, hoping that this will have positive political side-effects.
Whether the European Neighbourhood Policy can really contribute to greater stability is questionable in view of the escalation of events in Libya.
The Barcelona Process in itself is a good thing, and I also took this into consideration when voting.
For these reasons, which were expressed in the resolution, I voted in favour.
Under Article 8 of the Treaty on European Union, the Union shall develop a special relationship with neighbouring countries, aiming to establish an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness.
Respect for, and the promotion of, democracy and human rights, especially those of women, are fundamental principles of the European Union and must constitute common values shared with partner countries of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
In view of this changed social and political landscape, the EU must make effective adjustments to its neighbourhood policy in order to give effective support to the reform process in the areas of human rights and democracy.
The EU must define in detail the strategic priorities pursued in the partnerships with its eastern and southern neighbours.
I should like to see the Union take action sustained by the will to initiate a process of democratisation, in particular, with regard to greater participation by women in public life and better planning of socio-economic development.
I voted in favour of this report because current events should encourage us to reform the neighbourhood policy, not just to refocus it.
In economic, trade and political terms, respect for rights and freedoms should be, at the same time, conditions and objectives of our cooperation.
Our cooperation should no longer be restricted to exchanges with the ruling authorities: the European Union should make it a priority to speak to the various members of civil society and to encourage the emergence and organisation of political pluralism in that region.
These resolutions are particularly important given the recent course of events in the southern region.
The strategic review of the European Neighbourhood Policy must fully take these events into account and reflect on them.
The uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya came as such a surprise to Europe that everyone agrees that it ought to review the terms of its cooperation with the countries of the Mediterranean.
Several options are already open to us when it comes to providing long-term support for the democratic transition, economic development and regional integration of our southern neighbours.
The EU has two tools at its disposal: the Union for the Mediterranean and the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
Both have shown their weaknesses, but a genuine political commitment could rectify our mistakes.
I therefore support this resolution, which provides a clear framework and specific objectives for the next European Neighbourhood Policy.
I would, however, draw my fellow Members' attention to the cross-border dimension of this policy.
Establishing a genuine EU-Mediterranean partnership means not only taking the aspirations of the peoples into greater account, but also providing real investment in concrete projects.
I supported the resolution on the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy - Southern Dimension.
Women's rights must be a priority item in talks with the countries of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP).
We should also focus on measures which will deepen the social integration of women.
The effects of measures to improve gender equality in the ENP countries should be continuously monitored and supervised, and failures in this area should be categorically condemned, and even punished.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which has significant importance, given recent events in the EU's southern neighbourhood.
It is vital that the renewed policy supports democratisation and genuine reforms in the countries concerned.
The creation of an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness based on EU values should continue to be the basis for relations with ENP partner countries - in this particular case, with the Mediterranean countries.
Lastly, I believe that solutions urgently need to be found to bring an end to the war in Libya, and also to prepare a package of measures for rebuilding the country after the conflict has ended.
My commitment to a rapprochement between the two shores of the Mediterranean led me to make a number of proposals, which I am delighted to say have been approved by my fellow Members.
In particular, I stressed the need to review the European Neighbourhood Policy in the light of the events in the Arab world, by stepping up dialogue with civil society, encouraging the exchange of good practice, guaranteeing respect for human rights in our association agreements and supporting the democratic transition process in those countries.
The ENP offers us a wonderful opportunity to promote our values and to strengthen our relations with the countries on Europe's doorstep.
For that reason, I hope that our partnership with our neighbours in the Southern Mediterranean will become a priority of our foreign policy.
I am in favour of this resolution because it upholds the most basic civil rights, particularly those relating to freedom of expression.
Without strong political pressure on these countries, it will be difficult to bring about peace.
Women who have actively participated in the uprisings for more democracy, rights and freedoms in North Africa and the Middle East deserve our respect and support.
The European Union cannot be silent when these brave fighters for democracy and freedom are cruelly treated.
We therefore call on the Commission and the Member State governments to strongly oppose the use of sexual assaults, intimidation and targeting of women in Libya and Egypt, because these countries' incumbent regimes have resorted to sexual violence against women as a weapon in the conflicts that arose during these revolutions.
As far as the events in these North African countries are concerned, it is only right that the people responsible for these serious violations be punished, as in any other conflict in the world, because we are dealing here not just with civilians but, what is more reprehensible still, also with soldiers.
I sincerely hope that the EU will succeed in applying pressure so that these countries rapidly ratify a series of international judicial instruments, including the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees.
I voted in favour of this resolution because there is an urgent need to halt the use of violence and sexual abuse against women.
The European Commission and the Member States should strongly condemn sexual abuse, intimidation, torture and violence against women in Libya and Egypt.
Furthermore, everyone should be able to express their views on the democratic future of their country without being detained, tortured or subjected to degrading and discriminatory treatment.
Women have had a key voice in the riots calling for more democracy, rights and freedoms in North Africa and the Middle East.
Immediate steps must be taken as a matter of urgency to put a stop to this degrading treatment, and to ensure that all the security and army forces are clearly told that torture and other forms of ill-treatment will be the subject of a thorough investigation.
I voted in favour of this resolution as it strongly condemns the regimes in Libya and Egypt for resorting to sexual aggression in the course of the conflict which is part of the current revolutions.
Unfortunately, we are all aware that periods of upheaval and armed conflicts exacerbate situations of violence against women and children, and lead to a rise in cases of sexual abuse.
This practice is absolutely reprehensible, as are the use of torture, gang rape, 'virginity tests', threats and abuse, whether physical or psychological, directed at women as a way of intimidating or frightening them, or limiting their rights to political participation, as is happening in Egypt and Libya.
The EU, and Parliament in particular, should be a bastion of protection for fundamental rights and human dignity, and clearly and unequivocally denounce all violations of these values.
I strongly condemn the practice of violence against women, and also children, in the recent conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, and I would like to call for the most appropriate measures to be taken to protect their most fundamental rights and dignity.
The fight against the violation of human rights is the main goal of the EU and its institutions.
In view of this, the use of sexual violence in any conflict has given rise to the strongest renunciation and condemnation by these organisations.
Indeed, many resolutions have been adopted by Parliament denouncing violence against women.
This joint motion for a resolution focuses on this violence, in particular, sexual violence, perpetrated against women in North Africa and the Middle East.
As stated in the draft resolution that we submitted, it is vital to insist upon effective diplomatic action that vigorously opposes the use of sexual aggression, intimidation and harassment of women in North Africa and the Middle East, or in any other place.
We would also like to stress the importance of recognising the role of women in the revolutions, and stress the need to guarantee women's rights, including their participation in the new democratic, legal, economic and political structures of these countries, ending the centuries-old discrimination that they have suffered.
I believe that everyone should be able to express their views on the democratic future of their country without being detained, tortured or subjected to degrading and discriminatory treatment.
I voted in favour of the resolution because the EU must not close its eyes to these atrocities either and it is only right to demand of the governments in Egypt and Libya that these cases are investigated without exception and the perpetrators held accountable, in order that the countries may continue along the path towards democracy and freedom.
In the course of the unrest in Egypt and Libya, there were reports in the international media of tragic assaults and acts of violence repeatedly being carried out against women.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
The joint motion for a resolution on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East roundly condemns the crimes identified in Egypt and Libya.
In addition to its round condemnation, the motion for a resolution, which I supported, calls on the Commission and the governments of the Member States to strongly oppose the use of sexual assaults on, and intimidation and targeting of, women in Libya and Egypt and to take specific and coordinated action to put an immediate stop to these practices.
I voted in favour of this resolution as it condemns gender-based violence and, of course, the use of sexual violence in conflicts.
The uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East have seen women play an active role in demanding their shared desire for democracy and fundamental rights.
Unfortunately, the regimes in power in Libya and Egypt have resorted as ever to sexual assault as a weapon with which to target women.
We must denounce the use of sexual violence as an instrument for intimidating and humiliating women, without forgetting that the power vacuum that has now emerged could lead to a deterioration in their rights.
I wholeheartedly supported the resolution on combating sexual violence in the conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East.
Mass sexual violence against women is a permanent part of armed conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East.
Human rights, an inseparable element of which is the equality of men and women, should constitute an essential element of democratic processes in third countries.
During the recent events in North Africa, the ruling regimes in Libya and Egypt used sexual assault as a weapon for intimidating and persecuting women who took part in the uprisings there.
The international community must do everything it takes to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes do not go unpunished.
The revelations concerning the honour crimes and the humiliation suffered by women during the uprisings in the Arab world have shocked and disturbed me, and I am pleased that our Parliament has denounced the atrocities committed against them.
Our resolution addresses an essential requirement for the future of those countries: that of giving women a central role in the democratisation process in Arab societies.
Women played a leading, silent, underestimated even, role in the liberation movements, and I think it was essential to pay tribute to it in this text.
It is now up to us to ensure that we include in that approach guarantees with regard to respect for human rights and equality between men and women.
I am in favour of this report, which deals appropriately with important issues such as the new Statute of the European Investment Bank (EIB) following the Treaty of Lisbon, project bonds, the implications for the planned financing of the EIB during the economic crisis, its financing after 2013 and its activities outside the EU, in particular, development projects, greening projects and how to be stronger with respect to offshore financial centres.
The European Progress Microfinance Facility was set up in March 2010 with some EUR 200 million in funding from the Commission and the Bank.
As stated in the Bank Watch report, SMEs, particularly those in Central and Eastern European Member States, are unable to take advantage of the assistance intended for them.
The EIB must lay down clear financing conditions and more strict lending effectiveness criteria for its financial intermediaries providing loans.
National financial intermediaries were given a period of two years to provide loans, but as the report states, some financial intermediaries granted only a small portion of the loans or did not grant any at all, although the financial resources were in their accounts.
I believe that the EIB must enhance transparency in its lending through financial intermediaries and report annually on its lending to SMEs, including an evaluation of the accessibility and effectiveness of this and lists of loan beneficiaries.
In the first place, I would like to congratulate the European Investment Bank (EIB) on all the work that it has carried out, particularly its support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) through funding that has steadily increased since 2008, and also through the creation of the European Progress Microfinance Facility in March 2010.
With regard to EIB financing outside the EU, I believe that a Memorandum of Understanding signed by the EIB, the EBRD and the Commission is desirable, so as to strengthen cooperation in all the countries where they operate, with the dual aim of making their lending policies both consistent with one another and consistent with the EU's political objectives.
The European Investment Bank (EIB), created in 1958 under the Treaty of Rome, is a financial community of the EU which primarily aims to contribute to the balanced development of the EU through economic integration and territorial cohesion.
This motion for a resolution focuses on the analysis of the 2009 report.
This document refers not only to the improvements that resulted from the adoption of the new statutes, but also to the activities of the EIB.
However, its options are not always sufficiently transparent and clear.
In addition, neither are the countries and regions that most need to borrow from it those that are most favoured with its loans.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) currently plays an irreplaceable role in providing finance in the EU and elsewhere.
The submitted report takes a positive view of the fact that the EIB acted correctly in supporting SMEs in the EU during the crisis.
It is true that the bank formally committed EUR 30 billion over a four-year period to supporting SMEs.
In specific terms, only about half of the funds committed reached SMEs in the V4 region in the first period.
To conclude briefly - the EIB is also having problems in the area of development.
The EIB is currently under-staffed, despite its impact on so-called developing countries.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament appraises the annual report of the European Investment Bank (EIB), albeit from a distinctly bird's-eye view.
The EIB is playing a decisive role in fighting the crisis.
The EIB's activity focuses on the three areas where the crisis hit hardest: small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), convergence regions and climate action.
The EIB plays a very important role in enhancing the European Union's convergence, and due to the technical aid and cofinancing offered by it, the regions under the convergence objectives are able to use an ever larger proportion of the funds available to them.
For this reason, I believe that further increasing this role is practical and to be supported.
I approve of the fact that in this period of crisis, the activities of the European Investment Bank should be focused on helping small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our society.
The involvement of and dialogue with local financial intermediaries is welcome.
What is very important in my opinion is the emphasis placed on renewable energy as regards the candidate countries.
I voted in favour of this resolution because the European Parliament welcomes the changes brought about by the Treaty of Lisbon, allowing more flexibility in EIB financing, including: equity participations as a complement to the ordinary activities of the Bank; the possibility to establish subsidiaries and other entities, in order to regulate the so-called special activities and to provide wider technical assistance services; and the strengthening of the Audit Committee.
It also welcomes the idea of project bonds, aimed at enhancing the credit rating of bonds issued by companies themselves within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy and which are used to finance European transport, energy and IT infrastructures and the greening of the economy.
in writing. - I voted for this report which recommends the following steps to strengthen the EIB's role in development: (a) the allocation of a greater number of dedicated and specialist staff with expertise in development issues and developing countries, as well as an increase in the local presence of staff in third countries, (b) increasing the share of the participation of local actors in the projects, (c) additional dedicated capital in the area of projects targeting development, (d) the allocation of more grants, (e) exploring the possibility of grouping the EIB's activities in third countries together under a single separate entity.
I am, moreover, in favour of the development by the EIB, in conjunction with the European Commission, of project bonds for use in financing large infrastructure projects relating to transport, energy and telecommunications, which are essential for achieving the goals of growth and cohesion within the Union.
The 2009 annual report of the European Investment Bank (EIB) highlights the essential role which the EIB has played in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), especially at this time of financial crisis and economic recession.
The EIB has focused on three areas which the crisis in Europe has hit hardest, namely: SMEs, convergence regions and climate action.
The importance of the SMEs for the European economy is unquestionable, so I welcome the increase in EIB financing for the SMEs in the 2008-2010 period, which totalled EUR 30.8 billion, and the establishment of the European Microfinance Facility, which has been granted about EUR 200 million by the Commission and the EIB.
Although it is not a text that we, as Greens, would have drafted ourselves, we thought the text acceptable enough to vote in favour of it.
The document that has been approved today highlights the clear need for additional support by the European Investment Bank (EIB) in areas strategic to the recovery of the European economy: small and medium-sized enterprises, midcaps and infrastructure and other key growth- and employment-enhancing projects as part of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The report urges the EIB to invest in freight transport in the European railway sector as well as in other Trans-European Networks of freight transport with a focus on the Mediterranean, Black Sea and Baltic Sea ports, in order to link them definitively to European markets.
In order to achieve this objective, project bonds can act as a complementary investment instrument alongside the budget in the TEN-T fund.
