Part one: Subject: Creation of a European credit rating authority Does the Commission intend to propose the creation of a European credit rating authority for the Member States of the eurozone and/or their credit institutions?
Clearly, Mr Papastamkos, my first priority today is to ensure that the 2009 regulation is properly implemented and to make the current, reformed system work.
I am convinced that the transfer to the new authority for the supervision of credit rating agencies will strengthen and improve the regulatory framework that we in the European Union have at our disposal. (EL) Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his reply and to say, Commissioner, that this is a subject on which I have repeatedly exercised parliamentary scrutiny since back in 2006, in other words, before the international economic crisis broke.
These issues would arise if we moved towards the creation of a new European public agency.
As the honourable Member recognises in his question, in some instances, new markets are being created.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I know that the points you refer to in your second question can create problems for competition on the market.
Vice-President of the Commission. - In relation to the question, I think we should combine, where appropriate, regulation and competition instruments.
As I said in my previous answer, in this area, in this question, with these problems, we are now dealing with some investigations but I cannot publicly confess because by nature, I have to be discreet.
Member of the Commission. - The financial crisis in Greece did not originate in the banking sector but in the public sector.
In this context, the Commission is carefully monitoring implementation of the additional fiscal measures announced by the Greek authorities on 3 March 2010 and adopted by the Greek Parliament on 5 March 2010, with a view to achieving the 2010 budgetary targets.
The Commission is closely monitoring developments in the Greek banking sector.
Meanwhile, about 10% of Greek banks' balance sheets is invested in southern and eastern Europe, implying another transmission channel. (EL) Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his reply.
The European Commission is following events very closely in the public and in the banking sector in Greece, so we come to our own conclusions and make proposals to the Council on the basis of those conclusions.
Commissioner, I saw that in the media the other day, you suggested that, in future, the Member States should submit their draft budgets to the Commission before they are debated and adopted by the national parliaments.
The Council of March 2009 fixed an indicative target of achieving 100% coverage by 2013.
The actions to promote high-speed broadband in the Digital Agenda comprise not only the Commission commitment but also suggestions to the Member States.
So could I ask if her services could support some of these community projects by giving some clear guidelines about State aid criteria to help those public/private partnerships which would, I agree, be crucial to achieving universal broadband. (RO) Commissioner, the Economic Recovery Plan provides a sum of EUR 1 billion to cover up to 100% of the broadband infrastructure.
All in all, we need to be aware that this is really public-private partnership that is making a big difference in this type of issue.
So broadband measures and what concerns us in this debate is really scheduled to take place earlier than 2011.
Under the treaties, all EU Member States are obliged to join the euro area once they fulfil the necessary conditions.
Subject: Extending cuts to the private sector On 4 March, your representative, Amadeu Altafaj, stated that cuts in the Greek public sector might well be followed by cuts in the private sector.
The Commission is aware that fiscal austerity measures and wage moderation may have a negative short-term impact on demand.
Nonetheless, given the current situation that Greece is facing, these measures are necessary to restore market confidence and to lay down the foundations for a more sustainable growth model for the Greek economy in the long term.
The courageous measures included in the stability programme and the packages announced in February and March 2010 include not only the envisaged wage cuts through a reduction in allowances paid to civil servants and Easter, summer and Christmas bonuses, but also measures to improve the tax collection mechanism, widen the tax base and increase tax compliance.
In the communication adopted on 9 March 2010, the Commission concluded that Greece is implementing the Council Decision of 16 February 2010 and that, based on available information, the fiscal measures announced by the Greek authorities on 3 March appear sufficient to safeguard the 2010 budgetary targets. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the National Statistical Service of Greece announced in its most recent - I think it was today's - announcement that unemployment in Greece has risen to 11.3%, of which nearly half (45%) are young people up to the age of 34.
They are the EUR 700 generation, as they are called in Greece, and we are worried that wages will go even lower.
Member of the Commission. - Of course, we are very much concerned by the unemployment in Greece, and not only in Greece but also in the rest of the European Union.
On the basis of the EUR 20 billion agreed with the IMF, Hungary is obliged to come into conflict with values such as high levels of employment and protection for minority groups, values enshrined in the treaties which Hungary, as a Member State of the EU, considers to be of paramount importance.
I would like to stress that without this assistance, Hungary would have faced much larger disruptions to its economy than the 6% decline observed last year and the expected stabilisation this year.
Moreover, given that the government had lost access to financial markets, no support would have meant that fiscal policy would have been even more restrictive than has been the case under the programme, and expenditure restraint would have been more severe.
Member of the Commission. - I am not responsible for this Commission file, but it would seem to me that the honourable Member is hinting at a EUR 100 billion package, but that it is a package that was financed by the Member States themselves, and which the Member States got the authorisation to put into practice.
They do not intervene unilaterally and, as the honourable Member knows, there has been a European agreement among the Member States and the members of the economic and monetary union to have a joint effort of the Member States of the European Union and the IMF.
This is the first time economic activity in Cyprus recorded a negative growth rate over the last 35 years.
According to the latest notification of GDP-related data from the Cypriot authorities transmitted in March 2010 and currently under validation by Eurostat, the general government balance reached a deficit of 6.1% of GDP and the general government gross debt attained 56.25% of GDP in 2009.
Currently, the Commission is in the process of assessing the update and preparing its recommendation for a Council opinion on the programme. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, it would be extremely embarrassing if you did not give an answer right now to the question asked.
The Commission is currently preparing proposals to this end, as I already mentioned in reply to a previous question. (DA) A wealth of possibilities exist for regulating a country's currency - provided that country has its independence.
What I would like the Commission to give an answer to or concede here is whether it will face up to the fact that were Greece not bound by the position set out by Frankfurt, then Greece would have devalued, and this devaluation would have remedied a large part of the problems that Greece is facing.
The Heads of State or Government of the euro area gave a strong signal on 25 March by calling for the establishment of a task force to work on measures for the euro area framework for crisis resolution before the end of the year.
The public discussion regarding a European Monetary Fund has touched a number of elements that are relevant in this respect.
In particular, the Commission agrees that there is a case for establishing a framework for emergency financial support under strict conditionality and subject to incentive-compatible interest rates.
Member of the Commission. - You should put the question on a specific timeframe to Commission Rehn, but when you look at the recommendations that we have been making and the agreement that has been made to support Greece, in particular, by a combination of bilateral loans and International Monetary Fund support, it is clear that the Commission is of the opinion that what happened now in any case could not be resolved by the putting into place of a European Monetary Fund because this would certainly take much more time than we have with respect to Greece.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission has long argued in favour of deepening and broadening euro area economic surveillance.
The importance of this issue was recognised by the European Parliament in its report on the 2009 annual statement from the euro area and public finances.
A forthcoming communication will outline new proposals in order to frame the development of a comprehensive framework for crisis prevention and correction in the euro area through recourse to the new Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
However, surveillance of macro-economic imbalances and competitiveness diversions are particularly warranted for EU Member States that linked to the euro because of the higher degree of economic and financial spillovers across euro area Member States; less market discipline; the absence of exchange rate risks and more challenging adjustment with potentially high cost for the euro area as a whole.
During the decade preceding the crisis, divergence has been underpinned by a worrying build-up of a range of domestic economic imbalances in some Member States including, inter alia, high debt and housing bubbles in some current account deficit countries, as well as entrenched weakness in domestic demand in some surplus countries.
Therefore, complementing fiscal surveillance, the Commission intends coming forward with proposals for the broadening of economic surveillance in the euro area, addressing macro-economic imbalances and competitive developments.
The ad hoc mechanism for possible financial assistance for Greece serves the immediate need.
The proposals for enhanced economic surveillance and coordination in the euro area are an important complement to the EU's comprehensive 2020 strategy for growth and jobs.
With respect to the additional question, I think you should go back to the origin of the crisis in your country, which is, in fact, that these imbalances have been created over time.
You should not forget that in 2002, the European Commission made a proposal that auditors could be sent to a Member State to check the numbers, for example, but it was not accepted by the Member States.
