Migration from the Schengen Information System (SIS 1+) to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008) - Migration from the Schengen Information System (SIS 1+) to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) (amendment of Decision 2008/839/JHA) - The establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Tavares, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 573/2007/EC establishing the European Refugee Fund for the period 2008 to 2013 as part of the General programme 'Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows' and repealing Council Decision 2004/904/EC - C7-0123/2009 -, the report by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 on migration from the Schengen Information System (SIS 1+) to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) - C7-0244/2009 - 2009/0136(NLE)), the report by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Decision 2008/839/JHA on migration from the Schengen Information System (SIS 1+) to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) - 2010/0006(NLE)), and the report by Mr Tavares, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the establishment of a joint EU resettlement programme.
Before the SIS II can become operational it must be personally tested to check whether the system is capable of functioning in accordance with the technical and operational requirements set out in the respective legal instruments.
Only after all these tests have been successfully concluded can migration from the first generation Schengen Information System to the SIS II take place.
Faced with enormous delays to the project, and because of all the problems and difficulties encountered, the Council decided to carry out two 'milestone' tests: the first in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the second in summer 2010.
The test took place between 21 and 24 January 2010: apparently the system worked for the first 25 hours, but was notoriously unstable throughout the rest of the test.
The new general timetable and budgetary plan are to be adopted at the next Council meeting in June, or in October 2010 at the latest.
The overall test for which there is provision in Article 55 of the Regulation must also be successfully carried out, and the safety of the network completely ensured.
Although the conditions necessary in order to go ahead with the migration have not all been met, nor is a time foreseeable when that will be the case, the mandate that was granted to the Commission to develop the SIS II will expire again on 30 June 2010.
We therefore have to amend the sunset clauses in the migration instruments adopted in 2008 in order to prevent them from expiring.
The Global Programme Management Board must also be created, and its management of the SIS II formally integrated.
I would like to thank everyone for being extremely cooperative.
These attempts, failures and new attempts have thus far gobbled up a total of EUR 90 million - 90 million which, in many people's eyes, has been completely wasted.
We all have a common interest in SIS II working.
We, as the European Parliament, are not prepared to give up this project already and we will support Commissioner Malmström, who has accepted this difficult inheritance, in any way we can.
It must be clear, however - and we have established this in the Committee on Budgets and are also recommending it to the plenary - that contributions for SIS II be placed in the reserve, so that we can have more control over the use of these funds.
It is very complicated, but I am determined to work together with you in order to get this right in a transparent way and to see the project completed.
The vote tomorrow is very timely for the SIS II project.
The Council has confirmed that the Milestone I test was successful and that the development of SIS II should continue on the basis of current technical solutions.
First, as Mr Coelho said, the initial expiry date of the instruments - 30 June this year - has become unrealistic and will therefore be changed.
This will allow the SIS II project to continue in the light of technical requirements and a global schedule which are currently being redefined with the Member States' experts.
It will be available for the Council on 3 and 4 June.
The rapporteur calls for a specific deadline for SIS II development.
Secondly, the Global Programme Management Board is a group of technical experts advising on SIS II development and that should be formalised.
We will continue to move forward on SIS II in a transparent way with the European Parliament, but we must keep a clear distinction between the technical work and political transparency.
In this context, the report asks to reserve Parliament's right to put funds for SIS II development for 2011 in the budgetary reserve.
The proposal tabled in September 2009 aims to improve the situation.
The Commission's decision to establish annual priorities for resettlement is an implementing decision, and forms part of the financial management of the European Refugee Fund.
I would remind you that the Member States participate on a voluntary basis and, so far, together with the two countries which took part in this particular resettlement, only 12 of the 27 Member States are participating in this endeavour and, to date, the figures from it have not been particularly encouraging.
In 2009, 6 896 refugees arrived in Europe under the resettlement programme, which accounts for just 8.2% of the total.
Of course, protection for human rights and our real solidarity with third countries are a top priority objective.
These experiences are fundamental, and having been a member of a local council, I also believe that all the councils in Europe should make a commitment on this issue.
In Europe, and in rich countries, we have forgotten that the wars that cause refugees are wars for which we are responsible, for which our countries and governments are responsible.
Madam President, I would have preferred to hear from the rapporteur, Mr Tavares, but never mind; now he has finally joined us in this debate, and that is the main thing.
If we were to allocate the entire European Refugee Fund - something that I do not want because it would inevitably be detrimental to the funding of the conditions of reception of refugees and asylum seekers in Europe - we would barely be able to resettle 20 000 refugees in Europe, a number far removed from the request of the UNHCR, which has established that there are more than 470 000 refugees worldwide in need of resettlement, that is, people who genuinely have specific needs, vulnerabilities, weaknesses, and who cannot possibly return to their country of origin.
Today, we have to examine the legal framework within which migration from SIS I to SIS II can take place.
Commissioner, under the current circumstances, the GUE/NGL Group cannot support such a migration.
Imagine if Turkey joins the European Union: we can expect not just 72 million Turks to have automatic right of entry to European countries and Britain, but floods of refugees from places such as Iran and Iraq might cross the border into Turkey and then seek resettlement in Europe!
The numbers are relatively limited: 200 000 per annum, and the problem has already been solved for some of these refugees - whose only option is to be given a new life in a third country - by actors on the international stage that resettle refugees: 80 000 by the USA and some by Canada, Australia, Brazil and Chile.
We have four new additions to correct the policies that are currently in place in the codecision; two of these, however, are procedural.
In other words, we think that Europe must have intervention strategies in terms of resettling refugees, which are very important from a foreign policy point of view.
The other two new features are procedural.
We also promise that the prior consultation and debate that we proposed with, for example, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development, can prevent any differences of opinion between Parliament and the Commission regarding the regions that are resettlement priorities.
There are countries which have already set an example, such as the United States, which already operate very efficient resettlement programmes, having garnered considerable experience in this area.
Therefore, if the resettlement programme that is to be set up today can be used to resettle international protection seekers in Libya, then these people will doubtlessly have little reason to cross the Mediterranean Sea and risk their lives in the process.
In this way, we would be helping both them as well as those European Union countries which are shouldering a disproportionate burden.
First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Coelho for the huge effort he has invested in this and, in particular, for the consistency he has shown in finalising these two reports.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Malmström because, since she has taken up her post, the Commission has started to show some transparency.
First of all, I would like to thank Mr Coelho for his excellent work, and I would like to stress that my group - from the very beginning - was quite cautious in accepting SIS II, due to many implications concerning data protection.
Now it seems that the long SIS II saga is far from being finished.
We should also carefully examine the reasons behind this failure; if we need to invest an additional EUR 30 million, Parliament should have all the information necessary for an informed consent.
Of course, certain flexibility should be there, but we must have clear criteria for evaluation and to react quickly if, again, something goes wrong. (DE) Madam President, first of all, let me say that I believe - and I am referring to the Schengen Information System here - that the EU should not be operating a wish-based policy, but a policy based on the reality.
If civil society can usefully be involved in this process, this measure seems to be closely related to the imminent activation of the European Asylum Support Office.
We believe that this is the way, the only possible way, to move on from a form of solidarity which, hitherto, has all too often been just a façade, to proper solidarity between European Union Member States in the overall management of migratory flows. (SK) First, I would like to thank Mr Tavares for his work in the area of refugee policy, and at this point, I would also like to express my disappointment that less than half of all European Union Member States have official resettlement programmes for refugees from third countries.
Let us recall that here, we are talking about refugees who are often barely tolerated in the countries that have received them and whose living conditions can sometimes take a tragic turn if solutions are not found quickly.
Thanks to these new means, we can actually provide these particularly vulnerable people with greater security, so long as - and I stress this - each of the Member States involved with the ERF uses the funds concerned correctly and transparently, which is something that I know you are very concerned about, Commissioner Malmström.
The plan to allow into the EU asylum seekers who have already fled to a bordering third country such as Ukraine because the standard of living here is higher is thus completely incomprehensible.
The EU should grant the protection of asylum to everyone who really needs it, to those who really are in need, but it should not open the floodgates to economic migrants.
What we need is greater protection of the external borders, quick, unbureaucratic procedures and, of course, a consistent repatriation strategy. (RO) The basic principle underlying the European Union's involvement in asylum matters is to ensure a higher level of cooperation and solidarity between Member States.
These measures will enable us to show greater solidarity from the EU in relation to the global refugee issue.
The process for implementing the second-generation Schengen Information System has been delayed and it seems that this will not take place before the end of 2011.
The additional costs and the need for new investment, if the migration to SIS II is going to end up failing and be included in the SIS 1+RE emergency plan, mean that much tighter budget control is required, especially for the new agency responsible for regulating and coordinating the implementation of SIS, VIS and Eurodac. (DA) Madam President, a year ago, all of the Members of the European Parliament were in the midst of an election campaign and were seeking either to gain or regain our mandates, and I know that in many countries, the issue of the Schengen area in particular played an incredibly important role in the election campaign.
There is a great deal of dissatisfaction among our electorate, the citizens of Europe, about the way in which the EU deals with these issues: the lack of internal border controls, the severely deficient external border controls, the utterly inadequate control of immigration and the spectre that is lying in wait for us in just under a year's time with regard to whether the Commission will give its approval for Bulgaria and Romania to also join Schengen.
Thank you, therefore, to the speakers and to Commissioner Malmström, as we now have a valuable tool, especially for countries with a Mediterranean coastline: countries such as Italy which, up until now, have not been able to rely either on real solidarity between Member States or on a fair division of responsibilities.
My last words on the subject of human rights: we must give priority to those who are most vulnerable, minors, women who are victims of trafficking, of exploitation and of violence, including victims of genital mutilation, but I know that Commissioner Malmström has this properly in hand. (DE) Madam President, at present, the European Union does seem to have access to unbelievable financial resources.
Perhaps it would be appropriate to conduct an audit of the work carried out so far on this system, to consider whether the system is viable and whether we know how to bring it to completion in such a way that it will be useful for Europe, and then decide how to proceed further.
However, perhaps we should draw on the experience of our colleagues from developing countries, who say that not all migration, not all the journeys their countrymen make into the European Union, are about the security restrictions faced by these people, but are for economic reasons. (DE) Madam President, I would actually just like to get a couple of comments about the Maňka report off my chest.
Furthermore, I also oppose any increase in the staffing of this House and, should it be decided after a further evaluation that an additional EUR 1 500 per month for the secretarial allowance is to be made available, that would simply be to mock the taxpayers. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr Ehrenhauser, I think you are speaking on the wrong subject.
If we want to think about a secure system, SIS II must be introduced, and this is why I think we need to continue these measures and support the Commission on this.
SIS 1+ does not give this guarantee.
SIS II will enable rapid verification of data in future.
In relation to this, work on SIS II must be continued.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all Members for their support and comments on these two different, but very important, subjects.
I will make this proposal on 3 and 4 June to the Ministers for discussion and there will be a further assessment of this after the summer.
The Commission has already made proposals in this regard.
Thank you very much to Mr Coelho, Mr Tavares and Mr Alvaro for your work on these two very important dossiers.
I believe that if there is any agreement about what is wanted in relation to the issue of refugee resettlement, it is because we understand that for once, in the debate on immigration - and we all know how difficult that is in Europe, along with the debate on asylum and refugees - what we have is a problem that we can solve.
It is, in fact, at this type of subject that we aimed the own-initiative report that we are also discussing here today and which is about quality: quality is of vital importance in the integration of refugees and requires a multilateral approach involving non-governmental organisations, local actors and local authorities.
If the process for these children, who are in refugee camps and are not yet studying and who would have the right to be resettled, is taking a long time, we are told by actors in the border agencies of several Member States that it is because it takes a long time for Member States to coordinate to validate transit documentation, for example, which can be done mainly using an instrument which, in the own-initiative report, we suggested should be implemented by the European Asylum Support Office (EASO).
The vote will take place at noon today.
