This is the razor-sharp conclusion of an open letter of 14 June which five human rights organisations have addressed to the foreign ministers of the European Union.
The open letter of 14 June urges European government officials to do a great deal more in response to the relentless violations of the fundamental rights of North Korean citizens, both within and without the boundaries of their country.
I also wholeheartedly support paragraph 14 of the resolution.
Madam President, officially North Korea claims that it guarantees religious freedom to its population of 24 million.
At the beginning of this month we found out that Son Jong Nam was tortured to death in a North Korean prison for spreading the gospel, the good news, to his fellow countrymen and women.
author. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we have taken the opportunity today to discuss the situation in North Korea, a country that has shut itself off so comprehensively from the scrutiny of the rest of the world that only a few people know what is happening there and the people in this country essentially do not know what is happening in the rest of the world.
The first is the human rights situation in North Korea, where people disappear off the streets and spend the rest of their lives in camps; where sometimes even a second generation of people spend their whole lives imprisoned in camps because their parents had allegedly committed crimes; where people are publicly executed and other people are obliged to watch these executions, and much more besides.
Over 150 000 political prisoners are still detained in concentration camps, subjected to forced labour, tortured and deliberately starved.
I would like to underline, however, that of all those violations, the public executions where children are present are perhaps the most disgusting.
The changes in China, including in the human rights area, may not be sufficient for us but are a good example and perhaps China can use its relations to promote some changes in North Korea.
They have no protection from the authorities in either China or North Korea, and there is little recognition of their plight from the international community.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, it is almost common ground in this Parliament that the human rights situation in North Korea is dire.
Just because North Korea has decided to be the Greta Garbo of the international community - 'we want to be alone' - it does not mean we should leave them alone.
We all remain extremely concerned about North Korea.
But I think a lasting improvement in the human rights situation in North Korea will only come about through regime change and democratisation and hopefully through eventual reunification with the democratic South. (PL) Madam President, I have a very difficult name and am used to the fact that people find it difficult to pronounce.
Unfortunately, it is tragic that 20 years after the fall of that criminal system in Europe, there are countries where, in the name of that sick ideology, people are dying of hunger, are being tortured, are imprisoned or are forced to work in labour camps and concentration camps.
As people of the free world, we are obliged - especially in relations with the People's Republic of China, because these relations are developing - to ensure that these refugees are not returned to the Korean authorities, because for them this means a severe prison sentence or simply death.
I am concentrating on this aspect of our resolution, because I do not believe in the effectiveness of our Parliament's appeals or the appeals of the whole free world in putting a stop to the violations of human rights in North Korea.
However, life is better there than in North Korea. (RO) The human rights situation in North Korea is giving particularly grave cause for concern.
According to reports, more than 150 000 North Koreans continue to be held in six labour camps.
In fact, the currency reform of November 2009 has failed and led to a rise in the level of poverty among the population.
I think that the European Union must give its support to setting up a UN committee of inquiry which will substantiate human rights violations in North Korea. (PL) Madam President, the United Nations and numerous non-governmental organisations continually report information to the international community about the repression which is being imposed on tens of thousands of North Koreans.
I would like to end by saying that, although the North Korean Government agreed to participate in the Universal Periodic Review carried out by the United Nations Human Rights Council, it is terrible that it has so far not accepted any of the recommendations it has been given as part of this framework. (PL) Madam President, to this list of highly dramatic stories about North Korea we have to add one more item.
The Commission fully shares the concerns about the need to address the very serious human rights situation in the country, as expressed in the joint motion for a resolution we are debating today.
