Thus, I would like, in this respect, to suggest that we reflect very briefly on the fact that Europe's structures are a means of achieving an objective, and the European Union's objective is confirmed in Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon: the promotion of dignity, equality, freedom and solidarity.
During his hearing, the Commissioner for Trade, Mr De Gucht, appeared to agree that trade could not be an end in itself.
You know that, for the Spanish Partido Popular, this is a question of state and that we will be behind you in everything that we regard as being in the common interests of Europe and that is important to Spain.
We must also have the humility to accept the advice that Don Quixote gave to Sancho Panza when he recommended humility in his fantasy about governing the Isle of Barataria. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I welcome the Prime Minister's very positive and ambitious programme for the Spanish Presidency.
Agenda 2020 means introducing information and communication technologies into everyday practice, making use of the best practices of Member States that have already made progress in this field.
Sadly, the refusal of the regime to allow our socialist colleague to enter Cuba because he wanted to contact the opposition is not a sign of real change. (FR) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Zapatero, thank you first of all, Mr Zapatero, for reintroducing ambition, political perspective and also energy, at a time when the European Union has to bounce back from the crisis and in the wake of the failure in Copenhagen.
On these points, our jobs, but also our policy, will be judged on the basis of the results achieved. (PL) Mr President, Mr Zapatero, among the matters which were presented today by the Prime Minister in a somewhat general and broad fashion, there are many matters which require elaboration and the presentation of specific proposals.
We are waiting with great interest for decisions and specific proposals. (EL) Mr President, Prime Minister, the fact that Spain is taking over the Presidency of the European Union at this difficult juncture is a huge challenge and a huge opportunity for those of us who maintain that the European recipe to date for dealing with the crisis has been unilateral and has not done enough to limit the impact on the real economy and employment, for those of us who maintain that the recovery strategy should also have been a strategy to change the development model, thereby safeguarding the economic, social and environmental welfare of the citizens of Europe.
The Spanish Presidency is a huge challenge for those of us who believe that European economic governance is needed, alongside democratisation of the economic policy instruments that will safeguard financial prudence and the required solidarity, where deemed necessary, in order to protect the interests of European citizens. (ES) I am pleased to have the opportunity to say that José Luis Zapatero has not failed to surprise European women with highly innovative and progressive measures.
There are many human links, many business interests and many emerging nations in Latin America, such as Argentina, Brazil or Mexico, which form part of that new world governance, and which must form an alliance with Europe.
It is part of the European Union, but not part of Europe, with the consequence that language schools in these islands, even where the quality of the courses is excellent, are deprived of the opportunity... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the Prime Minister spoke in his opening remarks about the need for Europe to develop a more effective foreign policy, especially with regard to its near neighbours, amongst which we must include Israel.
From this point of view, it is extremely important that the negotiations on the new budget period should start at the beginning of 2011, and that the Commission should submit its budget proposal at that time, allowing us to elaborate these policies.
In your role now for the next six months, you are also speaking on behalf of people from my country.
I ask you, before you bring more integration in, that you go back to the people of my country, the United Kingdom, and give them the choice of a referendum. (HU) Mr President, you have mentioned the importance of change, invoking as justification the global economic crisis, which has been the gravest one in the last 80 years, causing the loss of 8 million jobs.
We will be the area, the continent with the greatest number of people over 65, and this will result in a decline in our capacity to produce, a decline in the active population and in labour capacity, and this will put pressure on our social protection systems.
I am in favour of the European Union knowing how to intelligently align its own ambition, which it has laid down for 2020 or for the period 2020-2030, with the demands of other players with regard to reducing their emissions.
The European Union will fulfil its role by contributing to that peace process through a commitment to take up talks again.
The European interests I uphold in foreign policy action are the interests involving the values of what Europe represents, which has its origins in the Enlightenment and in all the cultural, religious and civic traditions that have flourished and developed in Europe.
Our cooperation, cooperation between the European Parliament and the Spanish Presidency, is very important.
At a time when the Iberian peninsula holds two important presidencies (the Council of the European Union via the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and the European Commission via Portugal's José Manuel Barroso), I regret that the Spanish Presidency has not demonstrated its capacity to bring added political value to relations with the continent of America outside the United States and Canada.
I would like to take advantage of this speech to express my regret, once again, that the new President of the European Council, who was elected in mid-November and took office on 1 December 2009, has still not been to greet the Members of the European Parliament or even sent them a simple message.
I would like to point out that I was a member of the AFET delegation which prepared the priorities for the Spanish Presidency in Madrid, in October 2009.
The negotiations on signing the Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova started in Chişinău on 12 January 2008.
Moldova is in need of financial and political support at the moment.
I support the most important priorities provided for in Spain's agenda on the EU 2020 strategy, the safeguarding of employment and social progress, on initiatives in the areas of education and innovation and matters of energy security.
I wish the Spanish Presidency every success in achieving its priorities and in finding solutions to the challenges which the European Union is currently facing.
in writing. - Europe's objective is a comprehensive peace agreement in the Middle East with a two-state solution at its heart.
The clear Council statement of December 8 needs to be driven forward with vigour and determination by you.
This plan must include among its most important objectives the whole package of issues dealing with immigration and asylum, border controls and security, as well as the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
Respect for fundamental human rights must be the key objective of all European policies and must be given the most attention by the three countries which are going to hold the EU Presidency during the next 18 months.
It is also important to adopt an integrated forestry policy and pursue greater efficiency in water management.
We will continue to put pressure on Mr Zapatero and his government until this occurs.
I suggest the Presidency take into consideration the statement made by Siim Kallas, Commissioner-designate, in which he referred to free movement as one of the most fundamental freedoms of European citizens, manifested in modern transport.
By doing so, he can ensure during his mandate that all European citizens have clear and transparent rights, and the Spanish Presidency could and should play an important role in this.
It also owes it to its citizens to finally do some plain talking in the negotiations with Turkey.
Ethnic and religious minorities are still being discriminated against in this Anatolian country and Ankara stubbornly refuses to recognise Cyprus, which is an EU Member State.
I welcome the fact that the Spanish Presidency is assuming in the agricultural sector priorities which are really the most important among the objectives during this period: the continuation of the debates on the future of the common agricultural policy and the adjustment of the common agricultural policy to the ever-changing realities of present-day Europe.
Thank you, Mr Zapatero, for your inaugural speech.
The Spanish Presidency comes just as the Treaty of Lisbon is entering into force.
The Union must also speak with unanimity about the fight against the crisis and building a new financial order.
It is the role of the Presidency to take an active interest in all kinds of intellectual reflection on changes in the European economic and social model which have resulted from conclusions drawn during the current economic crisis.
This will soon be one of the most important political questions in the European Union.
The year 2010 is the best time for people to raise their qualifications and even to retrain, in accordance with the needs of an economy which is coming out of a crisis. 2.
The division of competences between the Member State Presidency and the President of the European Council will be of great significance.
The Hungarian Agricultural Academy is an important venue for discussing the future of CAP in Hungary; I hope the Spanish Presidency will be able to attend its 2010 event.
The fact that it comes just as the Treaty of Lisbon is entering into force increases its accountability for the effective application of the new treaty, which is a prerequisite for the development of its programme.
The Spanish Presidency must finalise the institutional arrangements for the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The EU 2020 Strategy must find solutions to meet these expectations.
Last but not least, 2010 marks the mid-term point of the financial outlook for the 2007-2013 period.
However, it will do so for the first time under new principles, and will, for the first time, carry out its work in connection with the new institutions provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The priorities which have been presented, that is: work on the rights of the European citizen, economic revival and financial control, upholding justice and developing a strategy for the internal security of the states of Europe, and all this when the new treaty is coming into force with full effect, are very ambitious.
According to the magistrates, the attack could have taken place on any given day, starting from today, 20 January.
I would ask the Presidency to show solidarity with our colleague on behalf of this House and of the European Parliament and to take action to ensure that Mr Crocetta receives adequate protection in his role as an MEP.
