Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (NL) Mr President, my fellow member, Mrs Mathieu, suggested in her report that, for the time being, we refuse to grant discharge to the European Police College in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2008.
We need to use our influence to bring more pressure to bear on the Iranian Government to suspend the execution permanently, and maybe to grant her the asylum in Brazil offered by the Brazilian President. (SV) Mr President, according to UN reports, at least 8 300 rapes were committed as a weapon of war in eastern Congo in 2009.
The fact that this has continued without strong condemnation from the international community is appalling, and Europe, too, has a particular responsibility when it comes to Congo.
Sexual and gender-based violence must always be seen as a war crime and a crime against humanity.
It is scandalous that the international community has turned a blind eye for so long to the attacks that the women and children of Congo are being subjected to.
I am therefore very pleased to see the commitment shown by the UN Special Representative, Margot Wallström.
Let us never turn our backs on Africa's women and children again. (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of this undoubtedly important resolution because it raises the level of protection and guarantees with regard to future drilling in all seas, but especially in fragile seas and in those that have specific features that must be duly taken into account.
Clearly, environmental protection does not mean denying the right to take entrepreneurial initiatives, but it does require a precautionary approach - as Commissioner Oettinger referred to it - in cooperation with other third countries to ensure the safety of our seas. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that oil exploration in Europe is an extremely important issue.
The serious incident that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in April is a warning bell that we cannot afford to underestimate.
On 21 May, a platform in the North Sea, from which 200 million tonnes of petroleum are extracted each year, was evacuated because of a serious accident risk.
According to European Commission data, the oil platforms in our seas produced around 200 million tonnes of petroleum in 2008.
However, compared to more important topics, which, in my opinion, include the protection of mothers and children, or rather the protection of pregnant mothers and their unborn children, particular emphasis was placed on reproductive health aspects, on which we expressed some concerns.
However, I am convinced that, in future activities carried out by Parliament, we can increase the attention paid to those communities in which the infant mortality rate - I repeat - is still particularly high and can no longer be tolerated. (SK) I was unable to vote for the Mrs De Keyser's report for the simple reason that I do not understand what the European policy on planned sexual and reproductive health means.
I therefore logically assume that, according to the European institutions, sexual and reproductive health is simply an abortion and anti-conception policy.
These are the reasons why I was unable to vote for the report. (CS) I voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the cohesion policy.
In this way, we are showing our determination to be a key, indispensable player in decision making on new rules for structural funds in the period after 2013.
First, it will be crucial to link and accommodate future cohesion policy to the EU 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide sustainable economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
We also need to strengthen the role of social measures within the cohesion policy in order to address the changing democratic situation.
Second, we badly need a radical simplification of the rules of financing in order to make EU funds better available at local and NGO level.
Third, when preparing the framework of the next financial period, it will be important to engage, in time and on an equal level, representatives of the regions and the business sector.
Written explanations of vote The draft regulation, which is intended to ensure that third-country nationals are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as EU nationals under the revised rules now represented in Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and its implementing regulation, provides an opportunity for the European Union to guarantee a decent standard of social protection for all citizens.
I voted for this recommendation submitted by the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs because, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the changes to the legal foundations, the European Union is again obliged to review the rules applicable to the citizens of third countries.
This recommendation by Parliament proposes to approve the regulation offered by the Council and not to delay any further because the new regulation would simplify the administration of procedures and would guarantee the equal treatment of legally resident third-country nationals in the field of social security.
Moreover, in terms of combating illegal immigration in Europe, this regulation clarifies the rights of Member States with regard to their powers concerning the decision for an individual to be legally resident on their territory.
Nationals of third countries legally residing in a Union country whose lives involve a relationship with the legal system of another Member State often find themselves in situations where they are unprotected or enjoy conflicting rights.
The aim of the resolution is to ensure that nationals of third countries who are legally resident in the territory of a Member State, and who are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two Member States, are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as EU nationals under the revised rules now represented in Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and its implementing regulation (Regulation (EC) No 987/2009).
When the Commission proposal was first introduced, the European Parliament was consulted and agreed two amendments, replacing references to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and also pointing to a high standard of social protection as an objective of the European Union, present in the existing Regulation (EC) No 859/2003.
I voted for this resolution so as to ensure the adoption of the new regulation to guarantee equal treatment as regards social security for legally resident nationals of third countries.
in writing. - (FR) As Jean Lambert's report advocated, to my mind, it is essential that non-EU nationals and their families who are legally resident within the European Union have the same rights and benefits as European citizens concerning access to social security.
in writing. - The draft regulation is intended to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident within the EU and are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two Member States are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as EU nationals under the abovementioned regulations.
The adoption of this legislation constitutes a major step in ensuring equal treatment to third-country nationals across the territory of the EU.
These people are often the victims of great discrimination on our territory and pursuant to this legislation, third-country nationals will be able to move within the EU with the same guarantees when it comes to their social security entitlements as EU nationals.
Ladies and gentlemen, I was overjoyed at the positive result in today's vote in Parliament on the liberalisation of the visa regime for Western Balkan countries.
Firstly, this is an unprecedented improvement for ordinary citizens who can now experience the European Union for themselves and can travel freely in all the Member States.
Secondly, this is another extremely significant step towards the aim of stabilising the situation in the region and creating a positive climate for further reforms and the future integration of all Balkan countries into the European Union.
However, we should also take the corresponding decisions on visa requirements for the citizens of Kosovo.
The inhabitants of this country should not remain the only totally isolated nation in the Balkans, and the privileges linked with free travel throughout Europe should also be extended to them.
I am extremely happy with the initiative taken by the European Parliament to abolish the visa regime for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania.
This is a further step towards the inclusion of the Balkan countries in Europe, and it has my strong support.
In Europe as elsewhere, it should be forbidden to declare that any human being, whoever they are, will not be protected.
in writing. - The draft regulation is intended to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident within the EU and are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two Member States are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as EU nationals under the revised rules now represented in Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and its implementing regulation (Regulation (EC) No 987/2009).
When the Commission proposal was first introduced, the European Parliament was consulted and agreed two amendments, replacing references to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and also pointing to a high standard of social protection as an objective of the European Union, present in the existing Regulation No 859/2003.
Both these amendments have been incorporated into the position of the Council at first reading of 26 July 2010 as recitals 4 and 7.
Of his experience with the Netherlands Court of Auditors, his national government and the European Parliament, I would stress his commitment to overseeing the legality of public procurement processes and his determination in combating fraud and corruption, as well as his guarantees of responsibility, independence and suitability in the decision-making processes of the Court of Auditors.
I voted in favour of this report.
The fact that the budget authority has already approved eight proposals for mobilising the fund in 2010 highlights the flexibility of the procedures, proving that we have successfully identified new resources and are allocating them rapidly enough to Member States.
I support this initiative to help people who have been made redundant by the 82 businesses in Galicia to re-enter the labour market.
Given that Spain has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 703 redundancies in 82 enterprises operating in the NACE Revision 2 Division 14 (manufacture of wearing apparel) in the NUTS II region of Galicia, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
I agree that, in accordance with Article 6 of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment.
I also reiterate that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
A total of 702 redundancies at 82 textile firms justifies the Spanish authorities' application to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
The rising number of redundancies in the Galician textile and clothing industry is adding to the external perception that all its European counterparts are in a similar weak position (not least in my country, where this sector has been particularly badly hit) due to exposure to international competition, particularly from developing countries, where production costs are lower.
In the face of the impact of this global economic and financial crisis on the labour market, I would stress the importance of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) being properly implemented.
Given the effects of this crisis, which are especially being felt in the textiles sector, I would stress the importance of this plan of EUR 1 844 700 in support of the 703 workers made redundant from 82 companies in Galicia's textiles sector.
In contrast to this initiative of the Spanish Government, I find it regrettable that the Portuguese Government has not intervened in this way in the districts of Braga and Viana do Castelo, which border Galicia and have high rates of unemployment because of successive companies going out of business.
It is worth remembering once again that this sector is also enduring a serious crisis in Portugal, where it is suffering the effects of the liberalisation of world trade particularly intensely, while none of the actions needed to safeguard it have been taken.
These effects may now become even worse following the decision to intensify the liberalisation measures for Asian textiles.
These measures also involve fighting company relocations and, overall, require a complete break with the neoliberal policies that are visibly causing an economic and social disaster in the countries of the EU.
I voted for Mrs Matera's report on mobilising the Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the workers of the clothing industry in Spain.
As I said in September during the debate on the EGF's future after 2013, I am disappointed that this fund, set up to support workers made redundant 'for reasons of recession or globalisation', is currently not financially guaranteed in the European budget.
Indeed, I do not believe that tapping into the financial resources of other European programmes to finance the EGF is a viable solution in the long run.
What is at stake here is the European Union's credibility in supporting citizens affected by economic instability.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could vote against the beggarly sum that the European elites are granting them.
However, the little which is being given may relieve their hardship.
This does not make the logic of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in the context of globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in various countries, particularly China and India, often to the detriment of countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, and it is fundamental in facilitating access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has already been used in the past by other EU countries, so we should now grant this aid to the 703 workers made redundant from 82 clothing industry enterprises in the region of Galicia.
I believe, namely, that the entire process, from drawing up applications through to processing and obtaining the final decision of the budget authority, has so far been rather cumbersome and complex, according to the experience of many countries.
For example, in 2009, the contributions requested from the fund were, on average, around EUR 5 552 700, and 30 of the applications submitted by 13 Member States related to 17 branches.
However, the budget authority last year approved 10 financial contributions from the EGF amounting, in total, to EUR 52 349 000, which represents just 10.5% of the maximum annual sum that can be used from this fund.
One of the reasons is principally a lack of experience with the processes of the fund and the long period of financial uncertainty when awaiting the decision of the budget authority.
I believe that the simplified procedures for assessments and decision making introduced at the end of 2009 will simplify and speed up the submission of applications for support from the fund and will accordingly bring effective assistance to employees who have lost jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade.
Employees who are being made redundant through no fault of their own, or because of the financial and economic crisis triggered by speculators in the USA and the United Kingdom, need rapid help.
Spain has already submitted an application for financial assistance from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) on 5 February 2010 as a result of redundancies in 82 companies in NACE Revision 2 Division 14 (manufacture of wearing apparel) in a single NUTS II region, Galicia (ES11) in Spain, and has supplemented this application with additional information by 11 May 2010.
The application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution as laid down in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006.
The Commission proposes to mobilise an amount of EUR 1 844 700.
The EGF should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by Spain, which is why I have voted in favour of Mrs Matera's report.
I voted in favour of this report and also the two following reports concerning the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I think that the European Union must support people who have become unemployed as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
In February 2010, Spain submitted a request for assistance to use the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in connection with the redundancies which were made in 82 firms from the Galicia region participating in the clothing sector.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the mobilisation of the EGF for granting aid to those made redundant.
Furthermore, the economic crisis has also triggered a large number of bankruptcies in the textile industry, resulting in a huge wave of redundancies.
Set up as a rapid counter-measure, now the EGF has slowed and become complicated due to bureaucracy.
On average it takes 294 days to approve applications.
The EGF must be more flexible if we want to avoid drowning in uncertainty.
Given that Denmark has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 1 443 redundancies in three companies of the Danfoss Group operating in the NACE Revision 2 Divisions 27 and 28 in the NUTS II region of Syddanmark, I voted in favour of the resolution because I agree with the Commission's proposal and with the amendments to it tabled by Parliament.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is one such mechanism.
in writing. - (PT) I would stress the potential contribution of this assistance plan financed by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the reintegration of redundant workers and their social rehabilitation to a particularly tragic case like three companies of the Danfoss Group going out of business.
All of these companies were located in Syddanmark, Denmark, and all of them went bust over a three-month period in 2009, affecting 1 443 workers in a sector - the manufacture of machines and electronic equipment - that has been particularly hard hit by this crisis.
Of the EUR 500 million in funding made available through the EGF this year, only 11% was requested to fund aid plans for workers who have been made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis.
I would, however, stress the fact that, following successive warnings and reports, an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused ESF funds has been set up.
I voted for Mrs Matera's report on mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the workers of the Danfoss Group in Denmark.
As I said in September during the debate on the EGF's future after 2013, I am disappointed that this fund, set up to support workers made redundant 'for reasons of recession or globalisation', is currently not financially guaranteed in the European budget.
Indeed, I do not believe that tapping into the financial resources of other European programmes to finance the EGF is a viable solution in the long run.
What is at stake here is the European Union's credibility in supporting citizens affected by economic instability.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could feel entitled to vote against the beggarly sum that the Eurocracy is reluctantly granting them.
However, the little which is being given may ease their hardship.
The EU is an area of solidarity, and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is a part of that.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and victims of relocations that occur in the context of globalisation.
The EGF has already been used in the past by other EU countries, so we should now grant this aid to the 1 443 workers made redundant from three companies of the Danfoss Group operating in the NACE Revision 2 Divisions 27 and 28 in the NUTS II region of Syddanmark.
The European Union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support for those employees affected by the consequences of far-reaching structural changes in patterns of world trade and to help reintegrate them into the labour market.
It is also possible to help employees who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
I have voted in favour of the planned measures to ensure that support is provided quickly for the workers affected and for reasons of European solidarity among the Member States.
I voted in favour of the report because money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund goes to workers affected by collective redundancies.
However, I believe that there are a number of problems with this particular fund.
I believe that it is a waste of money for Denmark to send money to the EU only for it to be sent back to Denmark after having done the rounds through the bureaucratic system.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the Danfoss Group from Denmark because I believe that mobilising the EGF is an absolute must during the current economic crisis.
On 8 September 2009, Denmark submitted the request for financial assistance for mobilising the EGF in the case of the Danfoss Group, which made 1 443 employees redundant.
The economic and financial crisis has led to a slump in demand for mechanical and electronic equipment.
Trends in the machinery and equipment production sector changed dramatically in the EU in Q4 2008 in both Denmark and Germany, where falls in production in excess of 25% were seen.
Due to the competition from Asian firms in this sector, whose wage costs are significantly lower than those in the EU, the Danfoss Group has gradually relocated its production from Denmark to third countries, which has had a serious impact on the labour market.
I call on the Commission to develop an ambitious, green industrial policy, capable of guaranteeing the EU's global competitiveness and preserving jobs in the EU.
In this and other cases, older workers engender additional concern and must benefit from support measures targeted specially at them.
in writing. - (PT) Considering the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on the labour market, I voted in favour of releasing EUR 1 213 508 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for a plan supporting the reintegration into the labour market of the 198 people dismissed from the Linak A/S Company, a manufacturer of electronic equipment in Denmark's Syddanmark region.
I voted for Mrs Matera's report on mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the workers of Linak A/S in Denmark.
As I said in September during the debate on the EGF's future after 2013, I am disappointed that this fund, set up to support workers made redundant 'for reasons of recession or globalisation', is currently not financially guaranteed in the European budget.
Indeed, I do not believe that tapping into the financial resources of other European schemes to finance the EGF is a viable solution in the long run.
What is at stake here is the European Union's credibility in supporting citizens affected by economic instability.
I am abstaining out of consideration for the Danish workers of the Linak Group who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation.
In the situation into which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could be inclined to vote against, given the pitiful amount of this handout.
However, the little that is being given may help to ease their pain.
This does not make the rationale of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund any less intolerable.
in writing. - (PT) The EU is a space for solidarity and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is framed within it.
This support is fundamental to helping the unemployed and victims of relocation which occur in the context of globalisation.
I believe, namely, that the entire process, from drawing up applications through to processing and obtaining the final decision of the budget authority, has so far been rather cumbersome and complex, according to the experience of many countries.
For example, in 2009, the contributions requested from the fund were, on average, around EUR 5 552 700, and 30 of the applications submitted by 13 Member States related to 17 branches.
However, the budget authority last year approved 10 financial contributions from the EGF amounting, in total, to EUR 52 349 000, which represents just 10.5% of the maximum annual sum that can be used from this fund.
One of the reasons is principally a lack of experience with the processes of the fund, and the long period of financial uncertainty when awaiting the decision of the budget authority.
I believe that the simplified procedures for assessments and decision making introduced at the end of 2009 will simplify and speed up the submission of applications for support from the fund and will accordingly bring effective assistance to employees who have lost jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade.
I voted in favour of the report because money from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund goes to workers affected by collective redundancies.
However, I believe that there are a number of problems with this particular fund.
I believe that it is a waste of money for Denmark to send money to the EU only for it to be sent back to Denmark after having done the rounds through the bureaucratic system.
I voted for the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for supporting the persons made redundant from the family firm Linak A/S, located in Sønderborg, Denmark.
The EGF offers Member States the opportunity to support workers affected by the global financial and economic crisis and the major changes in global trade patterns.
In Romania, 381 296 workers lost their jobs between March 2008 and March 2010, including 13 667 in the county of Galaţi alone.
I welcome the vote in plenary on mobilising the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in favour of Spanish and Danish citizens.
Created in 2006, this European fund is intended to provide assistance to employees made redundant following a process of restructuring.
The rules were changed in 2009 to allow for better use of any appropriations allocated to the fund which, hitherto, had not all been utilised.
The commitment to help more than 1 500 Spanish and Danish employees via this fund is therefore very good news.
It emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
It stresses that, in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment.
It reiterates that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors.
The financial assistance that has been authorised will provide support for a total of 2 344 people and will help to reintegrate them into the labour market.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the refusal to grant discharge to the director of the European Police College in respect of the implementation of the College budget for the financial year 2008 on the basis of the excellent report by my friend and colleague, Véronique Mathieu, who is a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
This tragicomic situation where the European Police College is not being granted a discharge in the light of certain fraudulent financial activities shows us that there are no bounds when it comes to corruption.
I also voted in favour, because I agree that it is unacceptable for an organisation financed by Europe not to have sound and transparent management of its finances after so many years.
In view of the irregularities detected and the inability of the European Police College to account for its budgetary and financial situation to Parliament, I agree with the rapporteur's decision to refuse to grant the Director of the College discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2008.
in writing. - (PT) The European Police College has had difficulties complying with the standards of good governance expected of any regulatory agency.
Since 2006, repeated audits have found problems in the College's compliance with financial regulations, its staff regulations and accounting system, as well as inadequacies in its budget management, human resources, public contracting procedures and in the standards applied to expenses in organising courses.
It is in the interests of all citizens, particularly given the difficult economic and financial situation we face at present, to be able to count on efficient EU agencies that are able to use the budgets granted to them in a transparent and responsible fashion.
The controlling role performed by the European Parliament is important in establishing a veto where management processes are unclear, as in this case.
in writing. - The European Police College (CEPOL), which became an agency in 2006, has faced severe problems since its creation in abiding by minimum good administration norms to which all EU agencies are submitted.
Whilst I voted in favour of the report and the decision to refuse to grant a budget discharge for 2008, this is the first time that a discharge has been used against an individual organisation.
Last week, the Committee on International Trade voted unanimously in favour of postponing the granting of discharge for the 2008 budget of the European Police College (CEPOL) and against the closure of the accounts for the same.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Mathieu on this report.
in writing. - (PT) All European institutions which depend on the European Union budget must be rigorously inspected by the Court of Auditors and by all entities with an auditing function.
in writing. - With this vote, the EP refuses to grant the Director of the European Police College discharge in respect of the implementation of the College's budget for the financial year 2008.
Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right to express concern about a lack of transparency in the European Police College's procurement procedures.
However, this issue is related to a much greater problem - to the frequent lack of integrity and professionalism within police and security forces throughout Europe.
Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have reported a particularly high number of cases throughout Europe where the police exceeded its powers and used illegal investigation methods.
A visa-free regime brings about the realisation of one of the main fundamental rights in Europe - freedom of movement through all Member States.
It is very important to make every effort to deliver visa-free travel for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania as soon as possible.
The European Parliament has constantly promoted the notion of abolishing the regime imposing visa requirements because it is aware of the psychological impact which the current situation has on those who are still obliged to purchase visas to go and visit family members settled in EU countries, to go and study, or simply to travel.
It is high time, 21 years after the reunification of Europe, to put an end to visas for inhabitants of Europe who would like to travel within the EU.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of this legislative motion to recognise the importance of allowing citizens of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina the right to free movement in the European Union through a system of visa exemption, which is to take effect this year.
My opinion is that this vote represents an important step for European integration and political and economic cooperation in this region.
However, it is still important to guide our efforts in order to proceed with liberalising the visa system in Kosovo, which constitutes the only area in the Western Balkans where the opening of negotiations is not yet planned.
I voted in favour of the report because I believe in the inalienable right of free movement of all citizens, the right of free movement, regardless of nationality.
This report finally makes the next step towards eliminating visa requirements for the citizens of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I voted for the adoption of the proposal for a regulation because it will help implement some of the EU's prior commitments regarding the free movement of persons throughout the whole continent.
This will allow citizens from certain Western Balkan countries to feel that they, too, are part of the process of reuniting the continent of Europe.
I believe that we cannot progress with our desire to create a European identity and citizenship without removing the barriers preventing freedom of movement on the continent between EU Member States and their neighbours.
The inclusion of citizens from these countries with their fellow citizens from the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia in terms of enjoying the right of free movement in the EU will also help close some of the wounds of the recent past.
The Balkans, with their reputation as the 'powder keg of Europe', remain primarily, in spite of the progress made in recent years, a potential hotbed of interethnic tension, with political instability and the economic and social crisis added to this.
Bosnia and Herzegovina provides the most recent example of this where, unfortunately, in spite of all the efforts made, the mood of confrontation persists between the communities still divided by the wounds of war.
Since lifting the visa requirements for Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia last December, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania have made significant progress, as indicated in the report, which therefore no longer justifies their isolation and separation.
However, one issue which remains unresolved in this region is the problem of Kosovo, which is not even recognised as an independent state by many countries, including the EU.
This aspect must be a focus of our concern in the near future as it may set a dangerous precedent for secessionist actions on ethnic grounds.
in writing. - (PT) It is with great pleasure that I am voting in favour of the European Union's recognition and verification of suitable conditions for the liberalisation of the visa system for new states on our continent, in this case, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania.
I regret, however, that with regard to other countries, namely Ukraine and Croatia, the European Union is not extending the same welcome and that countries that have emerged and acquired their sovereignty and independence from the ex-USSR are not judged worthy of the same recognition, merely for this reason (of being ex-USSR).
I voted in favour of Mrs Fajon's report, because the results of the evaluation missions and reports have shown that progress has been made by Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina in fulfilling the requirements made of them, enabling these countries to be included on the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the requirement to be in possession of a visa in order to enter the Schengen area.
I am in favour of abolishing barriers to the movement of people as a matter of principle, and I therefore endorse the removal of the barriers in question.
At the same time, I believe that facilitating the movement of Balkan nationals within European territory should be accompanied by improved cross-border cooperation and more fruitful information exchange with their countries of origin in order to tackle the expansion of criminal activities by gangs originating there.
in writing. - (PT) I strongly support the goal of abolishing visas for all countries in the Western Balkans.
The visa exemption system is of great importance in people's lives, given that it strengthens relations between peoples and allows consolidation of the principle of freedom of movement as one of Europe's basic rights.
The guarantee that the European Union will extend visa exemption to the two countries, especially to Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the very near future, at the beginning of autumn 2010, will reduce the risk of greater political and ethnic instability, strengthen political and economic cooperation in the region, and increase popular support for the EU and the prospects for European integration, as well as broaden the horizons of its people and restrain extremist and anti-European sentiment.
I voted in favour of this resolution for visa exemption so that Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania could benefit from this as quickly as possible.
We are in favour of abolishing the visa requirement for nationals of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania as soon as possible.
These countries were denied the possibility in 2009, when the visa regime began to be abolished for all Western Balkan countries.
This decision 'rewards' the ability of these countries to 'deliver the necessary reforms'.
The question that arises is this: what price are the peoples of those countries paying for that?
We therefore do not support the dismantling of what remains of Yugoslavia, promoted by those who want to get their hands on its wealth, exploit its peoples and make use of its geostrategic location, an old dream of big capital in the EU.
I and the movement to which I belong totally disagree with Mrs Fajon's proposal to make citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania exempt from a visa requirement when crossing the European Union's external borders.
I believe such a measure to be irresponsible and hazardous to the safety of European citizens because it underestimates the political problems and difficulties in those countries, while it overestimates the weak and unsatisfactory progress achieved in recent years.
The criminal justice system faces similar problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the level of cooperation between the police and legal authorities is very poor.
The visa policy allows a certain amount of monitoring and selection of who is allowed to enter from third countries.
Indeed, allowing the abolition of visas for nationals of these two countries will no doubt encourage the mobility of young students and will strengthen economic and political cooperation with the Balkan region, where some countries such as Serbia, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are already benefiting from such a regime.
It is obviously regrettable that Kosovo, because of disagreements between Member States regarding recognition of its independence, is not included in this process under way between the European Union and countries in the Balkans.
Today, the European Parliament has given a strong sign of its support for the policy of abolishing the visa regime for the countries of the Western Balkans, continuing on the course followed last year, when mandatory visas for nationals of Serbia, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were dispensed with.
That decision represented important progress towards the European integration of these countries, which have demonstrated that they are capable of embarking on serious reform processes.
With today's vote on the Fajon report, we have accepted the Commission's proposal to abolish the mandatory element for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina also.
A report from Europol, Eurojust and Frontex has estimated that 900 000 illegal immigrants enter the European Union every year.
While some of these countries remain highly unstable for geopolitical, religious or even ethnic reasons, the report from the socialist, Mrs Fajon, recommends nothing less than abolishing the visa system for all countries in the Western Balkans.
On the contrary, we should lobby for the fundamental right of people to retain control of their borders and to take a sovereign decision on who can or cannot enter their countries.
The Fajon report on the proposal for a regulation listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of Member States and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement must be viewed positively, inasmuch as it represents an appropriate consequence of the agreements to relax visa requirements that the EU reached with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia in 2007.
Given the need to continue with systematic controls even after liberalisation, it should be emphasised that this measure will undoubtedly play an important part in creating stability.
Furthermore, I agree with the rapporteur that the direct consequences of this phenomenon on the quality of people's lives will help to encourage the state and governmental institutions and the politicians in their efforts to implement the reforms necessary for them to accede to the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) The EU has always been concerned that the citizens within its geographical boundaries should be able to move freely throughout Member States.
This facility was gradually extended to non-member countries, and now various citizens of non-EU countries are able to travel within the EU without the need of a visa.
The goal of the current resolution is visa exemption for citizens of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina, following the example set in other countries in the Western Balkans, namely, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.
I support the Commission's proposal to abolish the visa regime for the citizens of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The visa regime should not, under any circumstances, isolate the citizens of the Western Balkans or turn them away from the European Union, their nearest neighbour.
This decision to liberalise the visa regime is the result of progress made by these two countries, particularly in terms of strengthening the fight against organised crime.
in writing. - (LV) I voted in favour of the final version of Mrs Fajon's report.
I also believe that until such time as Serbia recognises the independence of Kosovo, we do not have the right to take any steps towards even the indirect recognition of that region.
I am convinced that we must adopt a more considered approach to this issue.
in writing. - (DE) The visa liberalisation in 2009 demonstrated to all intents and purposes that many people in the Balkans equate visa-free travel with being given carte blanche.
It does not seem to be clear to the people in question that visa liberalisation has nothing to do with jobs or the right of abode.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, because I know very well - as a Romanian citizen - how important freedom of movement is.
I fully support the proposal drafted by the European Parliament and the Council concerning the waiving of the requirement for short-term visas for citizens of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina when crossing external borders.
In accordance with the Commission's proposal, once the visa requirement has been scrapped, the Commission will undertake appropriate monitoring, in these two countries and in all Western Balkan countries which have already left the 'negative list' and been transferred to the 'positive list', of the process whereby the measures planned by these countries within the framework of the liberalisation of visa regulations are implemented effectively and permanently.
The Commission also stresses that the basic requirement for completion of the visa liberalisation process in these countries is the introduction of biometric passports, which will guarantee security and prevent illegal immigration.
I voted against a favourable conclusion to the visa liberalisation process for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I support the critical position that the French took during the COREPER meeting on 29 September: having complained that the period between the Commission's proposal and the assessment was too short, they referred the issue to Parliament and requested more time to evaluate the benchmarks.
These issues concern, in particular, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the lack of biometric passports, and immigration and border controls.
On this last issue, I should remind you that last March, Belgium repatriated several hundred Serbs and Macedonians of Albanian origin who had sought asylum in Europe after visa restrictions had been lifted for Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro in December.
in writing. - Today's vote clears the way for the belated but very welcome inclusion of Bosnia and Albania in the EU's visa-free travel scheme.
Bosnia's and Albania's compliance with the EU criteria for lifting the visa requirement is actually better now than Serbia's and Macedonia's at the time they got visa-free travel one year ago.
If the Council fails to follow the position of the European Parliament and European Commission, it would be a completely wrong signal to send to the citizens of Bosnia and Albania.
We are opposed to this report because stipulating that nationals of Albania and of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be exempt from the requirement to possess visas when crossing the external borders of Member States is a risky business.
In spite of this, Mr Frattini has come out in favour of visa relaxation; a decision that is incompatible with that already taken by France, the Netherlands and Denmark.
The former Yugoslav countries of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were recently added to the positive list of the regulation in question, meaning that their citizens are exempt from needing a visa to be able to enter European Union territory.
Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina have also been making progress, so that as soon as they meet the exemption criteria, they can be granted exemption and come off the negative list.
It is essential to decide that a future citizen of the Union has a fundamental right to travel in the European Union.
In order to put this liberalisation into practice, it is still necessary to strengthen the fight against organised crime in both countries and to develop a strategy supporting the integration of repatriated nationals, in the case of Albania, and the harmonisation of criminal law according to the Federal Criminal Code, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The ability to travel without needing visas in the near future will contribute to strengthening political and economic cooperation and reducing the risk of tensions in the region.
In view of the fact that there has been no improvement in the human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is, in fact, worsening, and in view of the fact that systematic violations of human rights are being committed on a daily basis, specifically in terms of unlawful executions, abductions, sexual assaults and acts of torture, I think it is essential for me to vote in favour of this resolution carried by the European Parliament.
The profits, the economy and mining and land resources are under the control of armed groups and conflicts have been going on for years, despite the presence of the United Nations Organisation Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Today in plenary, we adopted by a very large majority a resolution condemning failures in protection of human rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
We must, as a matter of urgency, strengthen the fight against impunity and, above all, end all violations of human rights, regardless of what they may be.
The Democratic Republic of Congo must take all possible measures in order to prevent any further attacks against civilians and to ensure a strengthening of responsibility for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law.
At the same time, it is important to promote peace and stability in the region by applying existing regional instruments and making more efforts to develop the regional economy.
It is very important for the action plan adopted by the Council for gender equality in the field of development cooperation to ensure that the gender equality dimension is taken into account in all policy areas.
Information about the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo is especially alarming as the acts of exceptional brutality being committed are taking place in the vicinity of the UN peacekeeping camp.
The 1 244 women raped in just three months of this year by representatives of all the forces involved in this conflict are by no means mere statistics.
What is even more shocking is that this situation can happen again at any time without them feeling any kind of protection.
The situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo provides a further argument in favour of officially acknowledging any form of violence based on gender as a crime against humanity and a war crime.
in writing. - (PT) Despite the efforts headed by the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the extremely difficult work carried out by humanitarian organisations, human rights violations still persist.
This resolution reinforces the priorities of training and appropriate salaries in order to reform the Congolese army and improve its regiment.
In addition, it underscores the need to redouble efforts to put an end to the armed groups' activity, and to hold to account those responsible for human rights violations.
Equally, it reinforces the need to develop close cooperation between the DRC Government and the international community, taking into consideration the participation of women in resolving the conflict.
It is vital to put a stop to the escalation of violence against local communities and acts of mass destruction, such as burning down houses, schools, churches or even whole villages, as has happened in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Rape and other forms of sexual violence against women and children (some 14 cases of rape a day, according to data from the United Nations High Commission for Refugees) have been used as weapons of war.
We cannot allow a generalised feeling of impunity to develop with regard to crimes that are, in fact, extremely serious violations of fundamental rights.
I also hope that the UN Security Council will urgently adopt measures to effectively prevent further attacks on the civilian population and to provide the victims with all the assistance they require.
I welcome the adoption of the 'Conflict Minerals' law in the United States and hope that the EU can initiate similar legislation.
I have followed with concern and disquiet the situation unfolding in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the abuses perpetrated against civilians, especially against women, and the use of rape as a weapon in the clashes between the various military groups involved in a proper civil war.
I got involved in drafting this European Parliament resolution on failures in protection of human rights and justice in the Democratic Republic of Congo based on a desire to find a way of making those responsible for these actions respect civil rights and freedoms, as well as human dignity and the international commitments to which the country is party.
I welcome the initiative launched by the US, where the law on 'conflict minerals' was recently adopted, and the natural request from the proposers of this resolution who are asking the Commission and Council to consider a similar legislative initiative as an additional instrument to be used to influence the decisions of those responsible for such reprehensible and barbaric acts.
I therefore voted in favour of adopting this resolution.
We must urgently find a political solution to the armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) so that safety and stability can at last be brought to the population of eastern Congo.
This is the purpose of the resolution that the European Parliament has adopted today following the publication of the report by the High Commissioner for Human Rights on 1 October, which lists 617 of the most serious violations of human rights and humanitarian international law committed during a 10-year period by State and non-State players in the DRC.
Tens of thousands of people were killed and many others were raped, mutilated or suffered other forms of violence during the decade in question.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I condemn the violence against women and children in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
There is an urgent need to step up the fight against impunity and to put an immediate end to the violence and human rights violations in that country.
The use of this type of violence as a weapon of war - which, unfortunately, is nothing new - must, even so, elicit from us nothing less than unreserved condemnation and the effective prosecution of those who are physically and morally responsible for it.
in writing. - (PT) Atul Khare, the UN Under-Secretary General responsible for peacekeeping operations, informed the United Nations Security Council that from 30 July to 4 August, over 500 people were victims of gang rape perpetrated in the North Kivu province by the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), a Hutu rebel group, and by the Mai Mai militia.
I strongly condemn this gang rape, as well as other human rights violations, and I welcome the request made to the United Nations and the DRC Government that it undertake an impartial and thorough investigation of all incidents, and guarantee that those responsible for violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law be held to account for their actions and prosecuted under the terms of international law.
We firmly condemn the rapes of women and children and all the human rights violations perpetrated in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
It will only be possible to put an end to such acts when the foreign military presence and external interference in the country are terminated, as these are factors that feed the conflict.
The UN and EU missions have already demonstrated that they are not the solution but part of the problem.
Our political group proposed calling for 'an end to the EUPOL and EUSEC missions to the DRC, which have admittedly made a negative contribution to escalating violence and the situation in the country by training security forces that have been perpetrating crimes against their own civilian population'.
A majority in this House preferred to reject this proposal and sided with those who want to maintain the conflict and benefit from it.
It must, of course, include the countries in the region, particularly Rwanda and Uganda, which are breaching the sovereignty and independence of the DRC and playing an active part in the conflict.
in writing. - The serious human rights violations, including systematic and mass rapes, which have taken place in the Democratic Republic of Congo, are truly shocking.
I condemn the mass rapes and serious violations of human rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the strongest possible terms.
I very much welcome the inclusion and adoption of this condemnation in the joint motion for a resolution.
I voted against the joint motion for a resolution, however, because, to a large extent, Congolese military and police units trained by the EU's EUPOL and EUSEC missions since 2005 were, and are, also involved in these crimes.
The joint motion for a resolution expressly supports and welcomes these training missions.
I am in favour of the immediate cessation of these missions, as they have contributed in a negative way to the escalation of violence and to the situation in the country by training security forces that have been repeatedly involved in the serious violations of the human rights of the Congolese people.
in writing. - (PT) The EU cannot remain untouched by the various armed conflicts which occur occasionally around the world.
in writing. - (LV) Quite recently, more than 500 people in the Democratic Republic of Congo fell victim to a mass gang rape.
They must facilitate the re-establishment of peace and stability in the region and contribute to the establishment of a State that can exercise its core functions fully and finally be able to ensure respect for the rule of law.
We strongly condemn the mass rape and other human rights violations which took place between 30 July and 4 August on at least 500 women and children in North Kivu province by the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), a Hutu rebel group, and the Mai Mai militia, as well as those in other regions of North and South Kivu.
We call on all actors to step up the fight against impunity and for an immediate end to the violence and human rights abuses in the DRC, particularly in North Kivu.
We stress the need for further efforts to put an end to the activity of local and foreign armed groups in the east of the DRC.
Unfortunately, many countries in the world have no respect for fundamental human rights.
Between July and August, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, in the mining district of eastern Congo alone, more than 500 people, including children, girls, and women as old as 75, were victims of gang rapes.
According to internal estimates, about 6 million people have died so far.
This resolution could send an important message to the authorities and inhabitants of the Congo.
It will be a signal that the European Union intends to intensify its efforts to stabilise the situation in this region, to verify the aid mechanisms currently in place, to place more stress on judicial reforms and, above all, to stand firmly against violence against women and children and to put to an end to the impunity of those responsible.
This resolution sheds light on and condemns the numerous violations perpetrated as a weapon of war against Congolese women.
As a politician, I am stunned, even more so as a father and a man.
However, we also failed much closer to home, in our own territory.
The EU will be hit by a huge crisis of confidence if it fails to narrow the gap between its honourable condemnations of crimes committed outside the EU and actions being taken at home in the area of human rights.
The Treaty of Lisbon brought new opportunities to strengthen human rights, especially the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is now mandatory, not just for EU institutions, but also for Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, between 30 July and 4 August 2010, massive human rights violations and sexual violence against children, women and also men took place in the eastern part of the Congo.
Our efforts towards peace and stability in the region, however, have so far brought no tangible results.
Economic and humanitarian assistance is important, but it is not enough in itself.
I am pleased that this Parliament, through the vote of its Members, has again confirmed in clear terms that our commitment to Congo includes a clear statement on the defence of human rights every time they are violated in the region.
I have therefore supported the submitted resolution, and I trust that the European Commission will find effective mechanisms for putting the recommendations from the resolution into practice.
Accordingly, I reaffirm my opposition to the death penalty, in every case and in all circumstances, in the hope that it will be abolished as soon as possible.
in writing. - (RO) In recent years, promising progress has been made towards the abolition of capital punishment.
The number of countries which have stopped using this form of punishment for good has risen to 95.
However, in spite of the positive progress, 58 countries retain the death penalty, while the statistics for the number of people condemned to this punishment are alarming.
Last year, more than 700 people were executed, which is not counting the several thousand people assumed to have been condemned to death in China.
On the occasion of the World day against the death penalty, which will take place on 10 October for the eighth consecutive year, we, as MEPs, would like to adopt a resolution to underline our commitment to abolishing capital punishment and our wish to see this principle of opposition to the death penalty adopted worldwide.
The death penalty is one of the oldest penalties imposed for very serious crimes which has yet to be abolished in certain countries.
The imposition of this penalty on the most vulnerable people should be abolished as soon as possible.
in writing. - UKIP accepts there are legitimate arguments about the death penalty, both for and against.
The maintenance or otherwise of the death penalty is, and should remain, a decision solely made at the nation state level via democratic means.
I voted for this resolution because I feel the EU should use diplomatic instruments to contribute to the abolition of the death penalty, applying pressure on government authorities to impose a moratorium on capital punishment, with a view to its complete abolition.
I also recognise the importance of approving World day against the death penalty and European day against the death penalty.
The value of life and the multiple cases of judicial error that history has left us are more than enough reason for us to fight the death penalty.
Abolition of the death penalty throughout the world is one of the European Union's priorities.
The European day against the death penalty has been established on 10 October each year.
According to Amnesty International, there are still 58 countries in the world that have not abolished it, 18 of which carried out executions in 2009.
China alone executed more people than all the other countries put together.
The only country in Europe that continues to apply the death penalty is Belarus.
The European Parliament was the first European institution to launch this campaign, in the early 1980s, and the EU is currently the main institutional actor in the fight against the death penalty, as well as the main source of funding for such efforts.
I am recalling this event in recent European history because the European Parliament's resolution on the World day against the death penalty is a response to an outmoded practice in the 21st century.
The death penalty is still part of the legislation in many countries, including some which actively promote civil rights and freedoms globally.
I regard the invitation from the European Union's Member States to the countries which still use this punishment, calling on them to adopt a moratorium on carrying out the sentences, as one of the main plus points of this resolution.
This year, 12 countries applied capital punishment, in spite of the condemnation levelled against this inhumane punishment by most countries in the world and international institutions, including the United Nations.
I believe that the pressure being exerted to abolish the death penalty in the 43 countries which still include it in their national legislations must become a priority in the European Union's policy for promoting human rights and, in particular, as part of the work of the new European External Action Service.
in writing. - (PT) As a citizen of Portugal, one of the first countries in the world to abolish the death penalty in 1867, I consider the death penalty to be inhuman and the most extreme denial of human rights.
The eighth World day against the death penalty, on 10 October 2010, is a chance for the European Parliament to reiterate that abolition of the death penalty all over the world remains a priority for the European Union, at a time when it is still practised in 18 countries.
Unfortunately, that is not the case in more than 40 countries around the world, where violations of the right to life enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights still persist.
The death penalty is an unacceptable violation of the intrinsic dignity of every human being, and of the inalienable and unrepeatable value of every life.
At this time, my thoughts are also with all those who are not guaranteed even a semblance of a fair trial and who are killed randomly or deliberately by the most barbaric methods in the most merciless circumstances.
The eighth World day against the death penalty will be held on 10 October.
I welcome this European Parliament resolution because I consider it to be the correct next step following the recent resolutions on the death penalty in China, Nigeria, North Korea and Iran.
For these reasons, I will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - The abolition of the death penalty worldwide is a priority of this Parliament and a particular priority of the Socialists and Democrats Group.
This is a fundamental value of our Union which we must defend publicly and often wherever possible.
The World day against the death penalty, declared for 10 October, is a further demonstration of Europe's guiding role in the battle for civilisation.
The resolution deserves to be adopted, since it highlights the innumerable problems and aberrations that still exist today in 43 countries in the world.
in writing. - (PT) Over recent years, the EU has been the main institutional player in the fight against the death penalty.
This fight has been a priority of its foreign policy related to human rights.
The truth is that there are still over 40 countries in the world which exercise the death penalty.
I have upheld this resolution because my conscience as a human being leads me to fight for the abolition of the death penalty.
It is a fight fought by all humanists.
By abolishing the death penalty, we will strengthen human dignity and make progress on human rights issues.
I supported this resolution, as I consider the death penalty to be a light punishment for those who have carried out serious inhumane crimes.
in writing. - On behalf of the Irish delegation to the EPP, We support the abolition of the death penalty and voted for the resolution on the World day against the death penalty.
In Europe, the ban on the death penalty has a strong footing, since it is guaranteed under Protocols 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The EU has consistently called for abolition of this penalty all over the world, and this is why, to the greatest extent possible, it provides financial support for civil society organisations acting to abolish the death penalty.
Since 1994, within the framework of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, over EUR 15 million have been allocated in support of this type of project.
in writing. - Once again, the EP reiterates its long-standing opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances and emphasises, once again, that abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights.
It condemns all executions wherever they take place and strongly calls on the EU and its Member States to enforce the implementation of the UN resolution on a universal moratorium on executions with a view to total abolition in all states which still practise the death penalty.
in writing. - The British Conservative delegation has traditionally given a free vote to all its Members on the issue of the death penalty.
in writing. - Passing this resolution today, ahead of the eighth World day against the death penalty on Sunday, once again relays the European Parliament's call for a complete moratorium on all executions to those countries still using this barbaric form of punishment.
I have therefore voted in favour of this resolution as it is essential that we lay down strict European rules for preventing accidents on oil platforms and for the Union to strengthen legislation on environmental responsibility.
However, I deplore the fact that the reference to a moratorium on all new oil drilling as well as to new standards have not been implemented throughout the Union and have been thrown out by a majority of Members in today's vote.
The introduction of a moratorium would, in fact, have been in agreement with the policy of prevention and the strengthening of security measures for oil platforms, and would have been in line with Barack Obama's policy of implementing a similar moratorium in the United States until December 2010.
I therefore support the adoption of new safety principles, the application of strict and rigorous common standards and the establishment of solidarity funds to compensate victims for any damage caused.
The urgent need for such measures is also a result of the geomorphological nature of our seas, such as the Mediterranean, and of the drilling currently under way on the Libyan and Egyptian coasts.
If there were an oil spill, it would cause an environmental disaster that we would struggle to overcome, with extremely serious consequences for the economy and the environment of many European countries.
In conclusion, I do not support the proposal for a moratorium, because I believe that agreements with third countries and their oil companies would be more effective.
in writing. - (PT) It is important for the EU to ensure the protection of its coasts through its ability to prevent and respond to such problems.
The European Maritime Safety Agency, located in Lisbon, provides support and technical assistance to the European Commission and Member States for the development and application of Community legislation pertaining to maritime safety and protection, as well as regarding pollution caused by ships.
This suggestion allows an economy of scale in terms of financial, human and technical resources.
The recent accident in the Gulf of Mexico, resulting from an explosion on an offshore oil production rig, would be sufficient argument alone for all those due to consider and vote on the European Parliament resolution on EU action on oil exploration and extraction in Europe.
As is emphasised in the text of the resolution, Europe is not protected either against such incidents with a devastating environmental impact because the majority of oil drilling and extraction activities take place in the North Sea.
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has been a wake-up call for the European Union and its Member States to examine all aspects of oil exploration and extraction in the EU as a matter of urgency, and to take all necessary measures to ensure that this kind of environmental disaster never occurs within our waters.
It is therefore necessary and imperative to adopt a common, cross-border European system of prevention and response to oil spills.
I would like to highlight the request for the Commission to submit a report assessing the level of environmental pollution and the biological state of the Gulf of Mexico, along with revising the EU's capacity to respond immediately to accidents involving offshore installations, and to develop a European action plan in cooperation with the Member States.
Guaranteeing the independence and quality of environmental impact assessments and determining liability are important factors in ensuring a high level of protection for human and environmental health, preventing potentially hazardous activities on the seabed from damaging the marine and coastal environments, protecting biodiversity, and safeguarding the prosperity of local farming and fishing activities for coastal communities.
We have to criticise the fact, however, that a resolution on this subject should completely ignore the issues of the physical limits of oil reserves, humanity's extreme and worrying dependence on this primary energy source, the need for fair and careful management of existing reserves, and the need to seek other, alternative sources of energy supply.
The highest levels of precaution, environmental protection and of safety and security of oil operations in Europe are principles of paramount importance on which we can accept no compromise.
In particular, we have to draw the necessary conclusions from the catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico in order to prevent similar events from occurring in European Union maritime and coastal waters.
What is at stake is the survival and future of our European oil industry at a time of crisis, but also our need for energy independence.
in writing. - This draft resolution calls for the strengthening of safety and security standards on EU oil platforms and an EU capacity disaster response in the event of an oil spill in EU waters.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I believe it is essential to examine carefully all aspects connected with oil extraction and exploration in the European Union.
It is for this reason that I join in the call to the Commission to monitor closely the investigations carried out by the US authorities in order to better define and implement high-level precautionary measures which would also ensure the protection of biodiversity in the coastal and marine environment.
There is no doubt that there are liabilities for deep sea drilling which, until recently, would never have been taken into account, but the threat of disasters similar to that in the Gulf of Mexico cannot leave us indifferent.
It is essential today for the European Union to strengthen and harmonise throughout the 27 Member States safety levels pertaining to oil exploration and extraction activities, not only for existing platforms, but also for those that will be taken out of service.
The EU therefore needs to take the necessary measures to ensure that oil exploration and extraction in Europe is carried out in accordance with the best safety regulations, thus avoiding future environmental and human disasters.
in writing. - (LV) I fully supported this proposal for a resolution.
The oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico clearly demonstrates that financial considerations all too easily result in safety regulations being flouted and common sense going out of the window.
I therefore welcome the fact that appropriate safety standards are now to be sought at EU level and I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
However, I wish to point out that the issue needed to be raised with a more general framework in mind.
That is the way to learn from the human and ecological tragedy of the oil catastrophe that took place on 20 April in the Gulf of Mexico: 11 dead, 800 millions litres of oil spilled and the devastation of biodiversity.
One thing is clear: by refusing to vote for a suspension of new offshore drilling operations, the European Parliament falls short of the European Commission's position of a de facto moratorium, as announced in Commissioner Oettinger's speech on 7 July.
Almost five million barrels of oil leaked into the waters of the Gulf of Mexico between April and September 2010 following the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform, seriously damaging both the economy and the ecosystem of the region.
In total, more than 400 species - whales, dolphins, manatees, herons, egrets, etc. - were endangered.
Since the European Union has many oil platforms - there are more than 500 in the North Sea - everything must be done, at European level, to avoid such a catastrophe in our territory.
By voting in favour of this resolution, I am calling for strict European rules to be developed for the prevention of accidents on oil platforms and for legislation to ensure that uniformly high safety standards apply across all European Union oil platforms and drilling operations, from the Atlantic Margin to the Black Sea.
In this context, only a temporary moratorium on all new offshore drilling in EU waters could have reduced the risks, and also sent a clear signal regarding our dependence on fossil fuels.
The EU is a world economic power and must be capable of demanding that countries that are not Member States but count the EU as their principal partner also observe the safeguards in place for activities in dangerous deep waters.
The natural catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico caused by the sinking of the Deepwater oil platform provides an ideal opportunity to consider Europe's plan of action to prevent similar events.
Firstly, the Union must increase its ability to react quickly if such a disaster takes place.
Secondly, increased safety monitoring of existing installations or those being built is essential.
We should, for example, improve monitoring of the process whereby licences are granted for oil drilling or leasing installations to third parties.
I supported this balanced resolution, which does not ban future oil exploitation in deep water, but adjusts it to ensure respect for European security standards, which are amongst the strictest in the world.
These standards must, in my opinion, guarantee both a sustainable energy supply to Europe and the security and durability of offshore activities.
However, their impact on the environment must be controlled, and we must guarantee that they do not constitute a future threat to marine and coastal areas and to biodiversity.
This is a major challenge for the international and environmental image of the European Union, which is producing very positive results in this area.
I voted in favour of this resolution, following the debate with the Council and the Commission in which we discussed the European Union's plans and main strategic objectives for halting the loss of biodiversity, on the eve of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity.
I therefore hope that the EU will take a strong, consistent position to this conference, with ideas about the concrete measures that will be taken to guarantee the contribution that biodiversity protection will make to sustainable development.
I also hope that the political responses aimed at ensuring the integration of biodiversity with economic activities such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries and tourism will be bold and ambitious enough to protect this invaluable, yet extremely fragile, heritage - as in my region, the Azores - from other blinkered external interests that may threaten it.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the EU's objectives relating to biodiversity.
Biodiversity issues must be taken into account when farming practices are being implemented.
Assistance and support must be provided for agri-environmental measures to promote the sustainable use of biodiversity.
The importance of the agriculture sector to the environment must be addressed in Nagoya, and this issue should be central when the future and budget of the CAP are being discussed from now on.
in writing. - (LT) I agree with this resolution.
Given the current situation, where biological diversity has declined by 30% over the last 40 years, and future projections that the rate of biodiversity loss will accelerate ten-fold, it is necessary to take decisive action now to preserve biodiversity and promote the sustainable use of biodiversity.
In order to avoid the negative impact of these processes, the Commission and the Member States must cooperate by preparing a sustainable EU strategy on biodiversity preservation, which would be reconciled with the objectives of combating poverty, managing waste sustainably and reducing climate change.
It is likely that public sector support will be insufficient.
The resolution on the EU's strategic objectives for COP 10 on biological diversity, to take place in Nagoya, is of particular importance in 2010, which the United Nations has declared the International Year of Biodiversity, and given that neither the global target to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 nor the EU target on halting biodiversity loss have been met.
The preservation of biodiversity, along with the sustainable use and fair distribution of the benefits resulting from genetic resources, should continue to be defended, and I believe that this is reflected in this resolution.
It is particularly important to strengthen diplomatic efforts with third countries.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the EU strategic objectives for the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Nagoya, primarily because I firmly believe that biodiversity conservation is conducive to the sustainable growth of developing countries.
Indeed, the fact that neither the global biodiversity objective set for 2010, namely, the sharp reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss, nor the EU objective to halt biodiversity loss, has been achieved makes the additional actions aimed at achieving these objectives even more urgent.
This is why I support the proposal expressed in the text of the resolution about making a more sustained and targeted effort to promote biodiversity conservation measures among ordinary citizens.
In a matter that is as sensitive as it is essential, such as the preservation of biological diversity as both European and global natural heritage, it is important that the Member States and the Commission come to a consensus on the position that the European Union should take at COP 10.
I therefore welcome this motion for a resolution.
I therefore believe that the promotion of synergies between the various world organisations, Member States and NGOs will allow the development of instruments for safeguarding biodiversity under policies of environmental preservation which promote this objective.
Lastly, I would like to highlight the need to signal the economic benefits arising from market intervention in biodiversity conservation and the inclusion of environmental issues in the agenda of the Member States and the Commission regarding relations with third countries, also known as 'green diplomacy'.
It is regrettable that, despite the commitments made by the EU during the EU summit in Gothenburg in 2001, biodiversity loss has still not been halted.
This resolution reminds us that biodiversity plays a key role in the fight against worldwide hunger and in food security, and that it is a prerequisite for any attempt to diminish climate change and to adapt to it.
It is time for all the Member States to implement the Natura 2000 legislation in full, as well as the Habitats and Birds Directives, and to take initiatives to preserve marine biodiversity.
This policy in favour of biodiversity must be conducted at both European and international levels in order to integrate these concerns into policy on development cooperation and the external activities of the Union in particular, as well as into all future agreements concluded within the WTO.
As I have already had occasion to mention, in relation to the report by Mrs de Lange that was put to the vote in the last part-session, 'I (...) agree with the need for the EU in its entirety, and particularly those areas covered by Community policies, to find a sustainable strategy for protecting biodiversity and preserving ecosystems.
I believe that this becomes particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, for which reason I am monitoring particularly closely the reforms of the common fisheries policy and the common agricultural policy that are being prepared.
It is crucial that the Commission and the Member States speak with a single voice and increase the speed and effectiveness of their internal decision-making processes so that they can achieve a rapid consensus on the internal EU position at COP 10, as well as devoting a greater volume of resources and more time to their diplomatic efforts in relation to third countries.
This resolution contains some points that are positive and important, others that are ambiguous and unclear, and yet others that are negative and even worrying.
However, we vehemently reject and criticise the intention to move towards new forms of private appropriation of nature and natural resources, such as the introduction of 'payment for ecosystem services', which is advocated more than once in the resolution.
The ambiguous and unclear aspects should also be mentioned, such as advocating that 'the values of biodiversity and the opportunities derived from its conservation and sustainable use are integrated into national accounts'.
The vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the EU strategic objectives for the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), to be held in Nagoya (Japan) from 18 to 29 October 2010, is principally due to the need to arrive at this important meeting with a common European position that can be supported by as many other participating countries as possible.
In particular, the resolution rightly stresses the need for urgent intervention to meet the target of reducing the loss of biodiversity on a wider scale through the application of already available resources.
We must therefore be ambitious with regard to biodiversity in order to achieve the strategic objectives for 2020.
Poor sections of the population are especially affected by the reduction in biodiversity and the loss of ecosystems, as they often rely on natural products in order to survive.
The European Union is concerned by the rapid rate of biodiversity loss and by the fact that the global 2010 biodiversity target to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity loss has not been met.
In order to achieve ambitious goals, it is necessary, as quickly as possible, to adopt concrete indicators based on scientific data in order to measure progress towards the strategic targets.
Studies conducted to date estimate that the welfare loss arising from the loss of biodiversity is currently around EUR 50 billion per year (just under 1% of GDP), rising to EUR 14 trillion in 2050.
Therefore, the European Union considers this problem to be extremely urgent.
I agree with the appeal contained in the resolution for support for efforts to enhance synergies and links between biodiversity and climate policies.
However, in order to help prevent these global problems, there is a need to increase drastically the global funding for biodiversity protection, notably through existing funding sources, as well as new and innovative sources, including new and innovative market-based instruments.
Quite apart from any anthropological point of view, it is also important to recognise the intrinsic value of this biological diversity.
In view of this, I welcome this resolution, which is ultimately aimed at promoting the effective and decisive implementation of the previously established objective for 2010 to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity loss, and which systematises the different paths for urgent action for the protection of biodiversity, establishing new objectives for 2020.
The task of conserving biodiversity promises to be just as difficult at Nagoya as at Cancún to reverse the ruinous trend in global warming.
It must also give a positive message: the best way of protecting the diversity of species is to incorporate this concern horizontally into economic activities, such as trade, tourism and transport.
in writing. - Although our first intention was to support the text, Amendment 1 to paragraph 16, tabled by the EPP Group and the ECR Group, finally led our group to abstain.
However, as a result of human activity, the process of biodiversity loss around the world is advancing with increasing speed.
However, I would like to concentrate on one specific issue.
From 18 to 29 October, the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) will take place in Japan.
Both at a global and at a European level, the 2010 target to halt biodiversity loss has not been met.
The protection of biodiversity is essential to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Although studies have estimated the current economic costs of the loss of biodiversity to be around EUR 50 billion per year, this matter is not on the international political agenda.
Excellent instruments already exist at European level and we need to enhance these in a targeted way and coordinate them with climate policy action in order to obtain the maximum benefit from the investments.
The Basel II agreements regulate banking activity and, in particular, the own funds that banks have to conserve to ensure their solvency.
In addition, Parliament is concerned that Basel II may not be respected in a uniform manner across the world.
It is pressing the European Commission to take steps towards greater harmonisation.
I therefore voted strongly in favour of this resolution.
Europe must, in fact, play more of a part in this phase of the negotiations so that we can avoid a possible penalisation of the European economic system and distortions of competition.
I voted in favour of the resolution as I agree that the issue of 'too-big-to-fail' financial institutions should be addressed, whereby capital requirements and countercyclical buffers should be proportionate to the size, level of risk and business model of a financial institution.
I would like to call for an in-depth study of capital instruments before and after the crisis in order to evaluate the importance of specific capital instruments and their relevance in a crisis situation.
The forthcoming European Banking Authority should play a leading role in drawing up and implementing measures relating to capital requirements and the rules on countercyclical buffer standards at EU level.
I am voting in favour of the bulk of the measures proposed in this report.
In view of this, the forthcoming European Banking Authority should play a leading role in drawing up and implementing measures relating to capital requirements and the rules on countercyclical buffer standards at EU level.
I voted in favour of the resolution as I believe that the supervision and regulation of financial market participants are essential for safeguarding the interests of the public and the financial and economic stability necessary for development and progress.
Capital requirements and countercyclical buffers should be proportionate to the size, level of risk and business model of a financial institution.
The banks have until 2019 to comply with the new provisions and, in the meantime, anything can happen.
The problem of liquidity and leverage ratios has not been resolved, any more than that of off-balance sheet assets and securitisation.
The report deals with a number of essential points as well as calls for Basel III to be implemented in the most appropriate way and with respect for the differences in the financial systems.
However, the Danish Liberal Party's MEPs regret the fact that more account was not taken of the Danish recommendations for the protection of the Danish mortgage credit model.
in writing. - The Basel Committee seeks to reform the Basel II framework in order to strengthen the resilience of the banking system.
The Committee also intends to introduce a leverage ratio to help contain excessive build-up of leverage in the system and other supplementary countercyclical measures such as capital buffers to be built in good times.
The European Parliament, as the democratically elected European body which will later on colegislate on the Commission proposal for the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD 4 Directive), should be involved in the negotiations process at an early stage.
The vote in favour of the Karas report is due to the precision with which my colleague has recorded the progress that has been made with the Capital Requirements Directive, but also the critical issues that are forcing us to urgently carry out this reform.
in writing. - At the heart of the financial crisis were banks taking excessive risks and failing to hold enough capital to cover those risks.
This report endorses the aims and proposals set out by the G20 and the Basel Committee, to ensure banks hold sufficient amounts of capital of a suitable quality, and that they have the liquidity and stable funding necessary to withstand tough market conditions.
We encourage further study of the impact of the measures where appropriate, but with a view to ensuring full, tough and timely international implementation.
This text does not measure up to the challenge that the current crisis and its economic and social consequences represent.
The global financial crisis which is continuing to cause problems to the economy in all countries has confirmed that a strong banking sector is of paramount importance in order to avoid similar situations in future.
Basel II and the revision of the Capital Requirements Directive are to contribute to a strong banking industry, in conditions that, in future, will allow us to withstand any similar crises to those seen in the recent past.
That is why I voted as I did.
I voted in favour of this resolution as I believe that: 'too-big-to-fail' financial institutions should be able to draw upon countercyclical capital that is proportionate to the size and level of business risk; the Basel Committee and the Commission should clarify the treatment of reciprocal financial cross-holding agreements; there should be an in-depth study of capital instruments as they are before and after the crisis, in order to evaluate the importance of specific capital instruments and their relevance in a future crisis situation; high quality liquidity standards are a key part of the crisis response; it is necessary to define the criteria for high quality liquid assets; the Commission should include all euro area sovereign debt as high quality liquid assets, regardless of its specific rating; the forthcoming European Banking Authority should play a leading role in drawing up and implementing measures relating to capital requirements and the rules on countercyclical buffer standards; countercyclical regulation requires harmonised criteria in order to ensure comprehensive and careful monitoring of the financial markets and the market environment by supervisory authorities.
in writing. - The report sets out the EP position regarding the forthcoming revision of international standards and guidelines on capital and liquidity requirements for the banking system which are being adopted by the Basel Committee (the international forum established by central banks and supervisors of the banking sector), as well as the G20 commitments on this matter.
These standards are supposed to be transposed and adapted to the EU legal framework through a revision of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD).
A Commission legislative proposal is scheduled during the first quarter of 2011.
in writing. - I wish to confirm my support for this report.
The reason that I am abstaining from the vote is because, in the interests of competitiveness in the EU, the report does not call for the introduction of more stringent financial regulation than is found in the rest of the Western world, including the United States.
The own-initiative report on which we voted today focuses on a subject that I believe somehow falls within this new architecture and which I consider decisive for any economy.
I voted in favour of this report since I agree with its overall content, which I see as one more step towards establishing new Union mechanisms for planning, coordination and supervision in the economic, budgetary and social spheres of the EU.
Any revision of the financial regulatory framework must include proposals to improve the Capital Requirements Directive and therefore central to creating stable and responsible banks.
This report endorses the aims and proposals set out by the G20 and the Basel Committee, to ensure banks hold sufficient amounts of capital of a suitable quality, and that they have the liquidity and stable funding necessary to withstand tough market conditions.
I voted for this report as it backs the reform process, but I will not support any calls to weaken the proposals adopted by Basel.
I would also suggest further study of the impact of the measures where appropriate, but with a view to ensuring full, tough and timely international implementation.
If we consider that an African's life expectancy may be even 30 or 40 years less than that of a European, we can say that this remains a major problem, even now.
We also condemn the fact that in some areas, women are still subject to genital mutilation, violence and rape.
We also fully agree with issues addressed in this report, especially the most pressing health problems in sub-Saharan Africa, and the general question of how to improve health care service provisions and social insurance schemes there.
However, my delegation is not in agreement with the reference to the promotion of abortion in paragraph 6 of the report.
in writing. - This report deals with a number of issues.
I am against abortion and cannot support a dossier that promotes these practices.
The Swedish Conservatives have today, 7 October 2010, voted against the report on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health.
It is a fact that civil society has played, and in many countries continues to play, a very major role as care provider.
As far as I see it, the main merit of the resolution on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health is that it tackles the issue on the basis of the specific features of the region in question.
Many projects intended for developing countries have failed due to the adoption of an absolutist, Western-centrist approach, whether from Europe or the United States.
The specific situation of this area makes the observation even more obvious that we cannot treat health like a commodity.
in writing. - I support this report which seeks, in light of the EU's commitments to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and halve extreme poverty by 2015, to address the most pressing health problems in sub-Saharan Africa and the question of what systems can be put in place to do so.
This is why I supported this report, which provides for health care systems financed in a mixed way by state resources, through international solidarity and through the participation of citizens.
The Member States are called on to provide their expertise and greater technical and financial support to the governments of developing countries in order to introduce and extend social security systems.
The reinforcement of health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa is a crucial aspect of development policies.
It is not acceptable for private companies to hinder access to health care for the sake of profits, and it is even less acceptable for conservative religious movements to reject sexual and reproductive health policies and question the right to abortion, thereby putting the health of millions of women at risk.
In order to improve the health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and throughout the world, it is essential for the European Union to be more in step with the rest of the international community.
This is why I support the adoption of Mrs De Keyser's report.
It is important for the people in countries on the African continent to have access to health care services.
It is good, therefore, that we are having a debate on health insurance systems and on how health care can be organised in low-income countries.
We therefore chose to vote in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of the report on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health since it confirms the need for the international community to fulfil its commitments to the Millennium Development Goals and for the European Union to discharge its undertaking to step up its support for health services in sub-Saharan Africa.
It is also the region with the highest prevalence of deaths resulting from HIV infection, the prevalence rate in the adult population exceeding 15% in several countries.
In this, the European Union and the individual Member States have a role to play, not because this situation of extreme need may be due to the colonial past of the African continent, as the report states, but because we Europeans are linked to Africa by special bonds of friendship and solidarity which must not be forgotten.
The serious problems and extreme health needs of African people are indisputable, as is the importance of effective intervention by the developed world in order to ensure better living conditions in a continent marked by numerous scourges, from natural disasters to wars, conflicts and oppressive dictatorships.
Equally important is the fact that it highlights the problem of the shortage of qualified health professionals in many African countries.
Instead of trying to help keep these resources in their countries of origin, several European countries have contributed to exacerbating the brain drain by enticing many such professionals away.
However, in the health care sector, it is of vital importance to swap information between countries and regions, and in this way, it will be easier to examine what aspects are universal, accessible and affordable in regions other than the one it was first intended for.
I supported the report on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health because I consider it essential to defend the right to health as a fundamental human right.
Sadly, it is well known that the life expectancy of an African is at least 30 years less than that of a European, and this difference alone puts the model of North-South solidarity seriously to the test.
The report that we have voted on today in Parliament expresses a preference for sustainable health services financed either from public funds or from international solidarity.
In fact, in this context, the European Union can play an important role by taking appropriate action to lay the foundations of a transparent funding system based on health indicators derived from the real needs of the population.
It is imperative that we continue to pool our efforts so that the investment made by the European Union towards health systems in sub-Saharan Africa are effectively implemented in order to permanently reduce the large imbalance that currently exists between that continent and others, especially with regard to childbirth, life expectancy and the incidence of HIV.
I should also point out that the birth rate should continue to be preserved and promoted in these countries, and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy should not be easy.
I support the report on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health.
Following the 2010 report on the Millennium Development Goals, and with five years to go until the deadline, it is the responsibility of each one of us to support our partner countries in the implementation of their national health policies.
There are many factors, such as bad governance, natural disasters and extreme poverty, that contribute to creating a worrying situation; a situation in which health indicators in Africa are some of the most alarming in the world.
In this context, non-profit-making systems with mixed financing from state resources, international support and public participation could help meet the immense challenge posed by health care in sub-Saharan Africa.
in writing. - The report deals with the absence of health insurance in sub-Saharan Africa, which penalises the majority of the population in obtaining access to health care.
Those who have health care are the people who can afford it.
The big majority of the population of sub-Saharan Africa, particularly in rural areas, is unable to afford heath care or drugs, even of the generic kind, despite NGOs and other government programmes providing services.
Almost 10 million children under the age of five die each year, and of these, 4 million are newborn infants less than one month old.
The main causes are haemorrhaging, infections and hypertensive crises.
Statistics from the World Health Organisation show that the risk of dying as a result of pregnancy is 36 times higher for a woman in a developing country than it is for a woman living in a developed country.
in writing. - (SV) In today's vote in the European Parliament, I voted against the own-initiative report on health care systems in sub-Saharan Africa and global health.
The report deals with a vitally important subject - it is obvious that access to health care is a basic prerequisite for development.
It is a fact that civil society, particularly the faith-based organisations, has historically played, and in many countries south of the Sahara, continues to play, a very important role as a care provider.
I therefore voted against the report.
This is about a fundamental right for which thousands of women have fought and still fight in Europe and throughout the world, often putting their lives at risk.
I believe that GDP should remain the main criterion for allocating funds but that we should also consider other criteria.
By adopting this resolution with a very large majority, we have joined forces and sent a very clear message to the European Commission and European ministers.
This text includes essential assertions such as the need, after 2013, to maintain a cohesion policy, which is a necessary condition for the union of the Member States.
I believe that we must be very careful with regard to the notion of requesting that, in the framework of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy (CAP), rural development be coordinated with cohesion development objectives and managed at regional level to ensure that it is adapted to needs.
EU cohesion policy aims to reduce differences in levels of development between European regions and to achieve economic and social cohesion, which is very important for rural community life and development.
I voted in favour of this resolution and it is vital that the EU continue to support sustainable growth in rural and remote areas.
Ireland has received some EUR 10 billion since 1973 through the Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Committee.
I support what the resolution says about giving careful thought to the importance of regional development, and taking it into account in the EU budget, and about promoting a strong European regional policy with appropriate funding to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion.
Cohesion policy from 2013 onwards must meet the needs of the European regions, to help the EU community grow and flourish.
in writing. - (LT) I supported this resolution.
Cohesion policy is a particularly important part of EU policy, which aims to reduce disparities between the levels of development of European regions and to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion.
An effectively implemented regional policy has great added value for the whole of the EU and its economic growth.
The European Parliament has frequently expressed its position that cohesion policy is currently being developed against the backdrop of global challenges, which have a varying impact on the EU's regions.
The cohesion policy is the most effective instrument available for applying European policies at regional level.
The motion for a resolution adopted today contains important aspects establishing a close link with the EU 2020 strategy objectives.
The 2014-2021 budgetary framework must support an ambitious cohesion policy in terms of allocated resources.
In the case of Romania, implementation of this policy allows proper convergence to be established with the other EU states, especially as all eight development regions in my country can benefit from the Structural Funds.
Europe is united, and so it is very important to achieve the objective of cohesion policy - to reduce disparities in the level of development of the European regions and to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion.
I agree with Parliament's opinion that cohesion policy should be more results-oriented and that we should aim for even more effectiveness and usefulness because only then will this policy become more convenient and beneficial for consumers.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, we must implement cohesion and regional policy and ensure that this policy is independent and covers all European regions.
It is important to increase the EU budget, but it is also important to improve the flexibility and simplification of the rules of use in order for there to be better implementation of the budget.
The EU should have political priorities which contribute to economic growth and the creation of more and better employment, along with policies which contribute to competitiveness, such as scientific research and innovation.
For example, energy is on the agenda of all the European leaders, yet we are investing four times less in scientific research than we were in the 1980s.
I believe that the European Union's 2020 strategy is a good starting point and a good working basis.
Today, these values, upon which we pride ourselves, should continue to guide the European integration process in the future, obviously along with its policy of regional development. 2013 is just around the corner.
Everyone's efforts are therefore important in achieving this objective, as the current situation in Europe is quite complex, and is undergoing profound changes following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The adverse global climate has also refocused the priorities of the EU, with a view to settling specific or economic problems that need to be solved, but which cannot distract from the principles underlying EU regional policy.
The architecture of post-2013 cohesion policy should clearly reflect the fact that cohesion policy is not a policy of redistributing financial resources between Member States and regions.
In adopting the resolution on EU cohesion and regional policy after 2013, the European Parliament has just given its support to the requests being made by the regions gathered together right now in Brussels for the Open Days.
Parliament wants to give a strong political signal before the fifth cohesion report, due out in November, which will set the main objectives of EU regional policy after 2013.
Finally, cohesion policy must also be the subject of better communication so that European citizens can understand the important role played by the Structural Funds in major regional and social cohesion projects.
I voted in favour of the resolution on EU cohesion and regional policy after 2013.
Implementation of cohesion policy, which contributes to stable, sustainable economic growth and job creation in the European Union, is essential for the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Although it is important for achieving the goals of this strategy, cohesion and regional policy should be independent and provide a framework for establishing strong synergies between all European policies.
As I have had occasion to say at other times, EU cohesion policy is vital for reducing the imbalances in the various regions of the EU 27, for helping to alleviate imbalances, and for promoting European competitiveness.
The Europe 2020 targets should be the driving force in this area as well, and I therefore welcome the recommendation to encourage greater use of the available technical assistance resources to enhance the capacities of small and medium-sized enterprises and non-governmental organisations.
in writing. - (PT) The aim of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities between levels of development in European regions and mobilising the potential for growth in order to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion.
This policy has proved essential to the process of European integration, the pursuit of modernisation and sustainable growth.
In accordance with the spirit of the treaties, these features demand the application of a regional policy at EU level throughout the entire EU area, covering all European regions.
The current accumulation of long- and short-term challenges that the European Union is facing entails the adoption of the EU 2020 strategy so as to create a favourable framework for stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation in Europe.
The implementation of cohesion policy is now essential to the success of this strategy.
I would like to highlight the fact that territorial cohesion implies an approach aimed at territorial development, so there should also be sufficient flexibility to allow for adaptation to specific regional characteristics and support for less developed regions in their efforts to overcome their socio-economic difficulties.
There are several positive aspects to this resolution, particularly where it insists on the objectives of cohesion policy, which aims to reduce disparities between the levels of development of European regions and mobilising growth potential to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion.
It is essential for the regional dimension to be fully considered in the proposed review of the EU budget and the future financial framework, since otherwise it will be difficult to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion.
Cohesion policy needs to be adapted to the outermost regions mentioned in Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union through the adoption of specific measures.
The Commission must propose permanent measures backed by adequate funding that can adapt to the needs of each outermost region in order to help them overcome their permanent handicaps.
However, we do not want cohesion policy to be subordinated to the priorities of the EU 2020 strategy, which stresses 'competitiveness', 'deregulation', 'adaptability' and 'entrepreneurship', always at the expense of cohesion and convergence.
GDP in the Border, Midland and Western (BMW) region, for example, is likely to fall to 75-100% of European GDP again.
Measures must be implemented for 2013 onwards that take the changed economic situation in Ireland, and particularly in the BMW region, into account.
Objective 2 programmes must focus in future on strengthening the regions' capacity to contribute effectively to sustainable economic development in Ireland and Europe that is greener and smarter.
in writing. - Cohesion policy is a basic principle of European integration as it ensures equal development and the reduction of disparities within the EU whilst also protecting social and territorial cohesion.
The Lisbon Treaty strengthened cohesion policy and thus, it is in all our interests that the future cohesion policy stimulates the development potential of the entire EU, encourages greater competitiveness of the European economy, and improves the quality of our lives.
As a consequence of the inception of the Europe 2020 strategy within the Council and following the adoption within Parliament's Committee on Regional Development of a document on future cohesion policy, we have an appropriate and well-timed report aimed at restoring the central role of cohesion policy.
Without an assertive cohesion policy like the one that it has always had in place, the EU would not have succeeded in reducing existing imbalances between more geographically disadvantaged regions and all the other regions.
The strengthening of these policies at this stage, when the crisis is causing some delay in the arduous task of reducing imbalances, is vital for achieving the objectives outlined in the EU 2020 strategy and for the EU to achieve one of its main pillars of solidarity, which has already enabled the development and progress of most European regions.
The resolution raises in a very timely manner the issue of the application of EU funds earmarked for regional development and of how to secure an environment in which these funds may be applied more flexibly, taking into account countries' geographical location and the basic indicators of their economic efficiency.
Unfortunately, in my country, Latvia, funds earmarked for the implementation of cohesion policy are applied in a very inefficient manner.
The corruption endemic among officials in the Latvian Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Government practically 'puts a brake on' both initiatives by individuals and on any steps towards efficient application of EU financial resources.
Due to the lack of an information campaign in Latvia regarding cohesion funds, its population is practically ignorant of the opportunities offered by the EU.
I voted for this resolution, so that I could use it in explaining to certain Latvian ministers and civil servants that it is time to get to work in the EU and, naturally, for the benefit of Latvia.
The cohesion policy system within the EU provides support to enable poorer regions to be brought to the same level as richer regions.
However, we must ensure that financial resources are allocated to the individual regions in a fair and transparent way.
The criteria used in connection with the paying out of subsidies should also be clearly defined.
The motion for a resolution on European Union cohesion and regional policy after 2013 is a clear signal from the European Parliament to the European Commission over the minimum requirements for the design of this policy in the next programming period.
The objective of cohesion policy is to reduce differences in the level of development of European regions and to increase growth potential to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Cohesion policy, which is an expression of European solidarity, plays an extremely important role in the Europe 2020 programme.
Its effective implementation is essential for further modernisation and to ensure lasting, stable economic growth and job creation in Europe.
It is also intended to increase competitiveness and improve the quality of life of the EU's citizens.
I am definitely in favour of rejecting all attempts at renationalising cohesion policy or dividing it into sectors and embarking on a sectoral dispersion of the resources of this policy.
In order to usefully assess these policies and improve the decision making with regard to the allocation of European funds, the EU must have social and environmental indicators in addition to GDP.
It is no longer enough to have economic growth as the sole criterion for decision making.
Cohesion policy is an expression of solidarity between European regions.
Its decentralised management is the most effective way of responding to the regions' specific circumstances and requirements, and as such, it adds crucial value to national employment policies.
This is why we firmly oppose any plans to renationalise the management of the European Social Fund.
Renationalisation should not be the only option for giving this fund more weight and visibility.
The objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion between the levels of development of the regions of the Union is important.
In adopting a 2020 strategy, we need to create a framework favourable to stable economic growth and job creation.
The resolution also calls for rural development to be coordinated with cohesion development objectives and managed at regional level to ensure that it is adapted to needs.
Unfortunately, in the wake of the crisis, there are many rural areas in Europe that have become even more marginalised and, consequently, depopulated.
It is through this policy that we achieve the objective of reducing regional disparities and stimulate harmonious development throughout the European Union.
A framework for the forthcoming 2014-2020 period must be established that can enhance the effectiveness of regional policy.
Multi-level governance must be encouraged, with greater involvement of regional and local bodies in the law-making process, as required by the new Treaty of Lisbon, and compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, as decisions must be made at the closest possible level to the people.
This group of European regions faces very particular development challenges and must continue to benefit in future from special provisions regarding the implementation of European policies.
It would also be desirable to apply other indicators in addition to gross domestic product, which must continue to be the main criterion for determining eligibility for regional policy assistance.
I welcome the adoption of this resolution laying down the guidelines of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for the programming period 2014-2020.
I believe that by calling attention to the regional character of the ERDF, we are reaffirming the need to take into account the specific features of the regions in the implementation of regional policy.
It is equally important to offer more scope to alter, in the medium term, the policy areas according to economic and social conditions and developments in the regions so that the ERDF can provide real added value throughout the programming period.
This report calls for a simple, fair and transparent transition regime after 2013.
One of the key challenges for cohesion and regional policy has been climate change, which also - to varying degrees - will have a considerable impact on the regions of Austria because the sectors that will be affected most will include tourism, as well as agriculture and forestry.
As indicated in the motion for a resolution, the limited resources must be focused on the key priorities, and common solutions need to be found to common problems.
The EUR 10 billion invested each year in social Europe (lifelong learning, social inclusion, adaptation of workers, and so on) must be used in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy and must make real progress.
However, the ESF must remain an integral part of EU regional policy so as to ensure that any increased differentiation between funds does not make matters more complex.
in writing. - (LT) I agree with this resolution.
A sustainable economic growth and job creation policy in Europe is essential.
The implementation of this policy should be supported by reforms in education, vocational education and training and retraining programmes, in order to adapt them to labour market needs, and it should receive the backing of small and medium sized enterprises.
It is very important for the planned instruments to work together in a coordinated and mutually supportive manner so that the best results can be achieved.
At EU level, the European Social Fund (ESF) plays a key role in improving employment and working conditions and in workers' integration into the labour market.
However, support from the structural funds alone is insufficient.
In order to establish an effective and efficient system for financing social programmes, aid from the structural funds must be combined with other existing programmes, such as the European Progress Microfinance Facility, through which micro-credits are provided to small enterprises and support is given to people setting up a business, and other instruments.
The European Social Fund is a key instrument in helping boost economic and social cohesion in EU states.
Maximum financial support from the fund would help strengthen the feeling of solidarity among European citizens, especially those in the new Member States.
During the 2007-2013 period, the European Union has allocated approximately EUR 3.5 million to Romania from the European Social Fund.
The first is aimed at developing human resources, while the second is intended to improve the public services and policies infrastructure through the 'Development of administrative capabilities' programme.
In this context, the Structural Funds' potential needs to be strengthened through simplifying and improving the relevant procedures.
The future of the European Social Fund will clearly depend not only on the approach taken by European decision makers towards the future of the continent, but also on the way they have been able to draw positively on the experience of the past, a past that is telling us today more clearly than ever before, that the model applied up to now by the European institutions in the field of employment, training and work is a model that is no longer suited to the needs of the present-day economy.
I voted for this resolution submitted by the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs because it is necessary to strengthen the European Social Fund (ESF) and increase its effectiveness, in particular, during the economic and social crisis, since this fund is one of the European Union's principal financial instruments for combating poverty and social exclusion.
Moreover, it is very important to improve the ESF's financial procedures because it would enable Member States to use the ESF more easily and effectively to invest in skills, employment, training and retraining activities with a view to creating more and better jobs.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it is very important for the Commission to distribute EU money allocated to the ESF in a targeted manner, because only then will this instrument directly help people to gain employment, find better jobs, overcome poverty, avoid social exclusion and lead life to the full.
Furthermore, only a more effective and stronger ESF can lead to the implementation of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy in the fields of employment and social affairs and contribute to the reduction of unemployment and poverty in Europe.
I supported the resolution on the future of the European Social Fund for a number of reasons.
First, I appreciate the fact that the resolution of the European Parliament recognises that structural funds remain, to a large extent, the chief instrument for financing aims in the area of social policy.
At the same time, I support the request addressed to the Commission, emphasising the need for interdependence with other programmes, and support for cohesion with multi-year framework programmes such as Daphne, Progress, the Public Health Programme, and the 'Europe for Citizens' programme.
No less important is the Commission's call to boost the potential of structural funds by simplifying and improving approaches and flexibility, with an emphasis on the dimension of social integration, in order to help Member States optimise the results of social policy and employment policy and achieve sustainable growth.
Finally, I supported this resolution of the European Parliament because it emphasises that the regional policy and social policy of the EU form a mutually interconnected whole, and for the success of the Europe 2020 strategy, it is necessary to provide a clear framework for achieving the cohesion of all European policies and structural funds, an end which the resolution challenges the Commission to achieve.
The European Social Fund plays a vital role in social cohesion by helping to integrate workers in Europe's regions.
Its action in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, education and vocational training is essential to the success of the EU 2020 strategy.
The European Social Fund's role could, however, be strengthened further.
The future architecture of the Structural Funds for 2014-2020 will have to take into account the specific characteristics of that fund.
However, it is important to keep the European Social Fund within the framework of the general regulations on the Structural Funds, as is the case today.
European policy coherence must go hand in hand with an integrated vision of objectives and resources, which requires greater synergy between instruments.
The European Social Fund plays a vital role in improving career and professional opportunities, promoting the adaptation skills of workers to the demands of the labour market and integrating them into it, along with strengthening social inclusion.
The goals and objectives of the EU 2020 strategy can be achieved by using this instrument in support of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and adapting the education and vocational training systems to the needs of SMEs.
I abstained on this report because, although it calls for the European Social Fund to be reformed and strengthened, it puts the fund at the service of the EU 2020 strategy.
We all know that the European Social Fund 'was set up to reduce differences in prosperity and living standards across EU Member States and regions, and therefore promoting economic and social cohesion'.
However, today, as the economic crisis pushes the EU even further into recession and unemployment, into company and factory closures, poverty and social exclusion, despite 2010 being declared by the EU as the year for combating poverty, a question mark hangs over this objective.
The priorities of all the European Funds, including the ESF, need to be revised for the benefit of the citizens and societies of Europe, not to serve the EU 2020 strategy, which follows on from the demonstrably failed Lisbon Strategy.
Certain points of the report, such as adjusting education systems and vocational education and training (VET) to the needs of business, clearly serve the needs of the market, not of the citizens of Europe.
Bearing in mind that the Structural Funds continue, to a large extent, to provide the main funding instrument for meeting social objectives, I believe that economic, social and territorial cohesion must be consolidated by improving employability and employment opportunities through encouraging a high level of employment and providing a higher number of better quality jobs.
I voted in favour of this resolution since I believe the European Social Fund should be the main financial instrument for achieving the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
The success of the Europe 2020 strategy depends on the competitiveness of European businesses and industries and also our economic dynamics in the post-crisis world.
My view is that the ESF should be at the service of these objectives, and I therefore fully support the emphasis that this resolution places on the importance of training and education as a means of fighting poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, through creating wealth and enhancing competitiveness.
I would therefore like to reiterate the importance and urgent need for the ESF to become more flexible, simple and adaptable, like the other structural funds, so as to promote a more effective response to the new European reality and new social problems.
We believe that the European Social Fund (ESF) should support the measures adopted by the Member States to encourage employment, promote the quality of work in all its aspects (training, working conditions, contractual relations, working hours and organisation of work), and help reduce social inequalities and disparities in the distribution of income.
An increase in ESF funds may help to achieve the objectives of social inclusion, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and education and training, while also making a major contribution to economic and social cohesion.
Ireland has received financial support of over EUR 7 billion from the European Social Fund since the time it joined the European Union in 1973.
Under the EU's Operational Programme for Human Resources for Ireland 2007-2013, the European Union is giving EUR 375 million to Ireland through the European Social Fund.
This programme has a total budget of EUR 1.36 billion.
To address the challenges and opportunities which globalisation creates for the Irish workforce, the European Social Fund in Ireland is also supporting training programmes for lifelong learning, which can be adapted to deal with the realities of a globalised labour market.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the European Social Fund (ESF).
The ESF is a key factor in European social cohesion, supporting as it does employment, the integration of workers into the labour market and vocational training.
in writing. - The European Social Fund (ESF) is the EU's main budgetary instrument to help social and labour market integration.
However, it is clear that this resolution focuses too much on the role of the ESF boosting employment and not sufficiently on its key role in supporting the inclusion of vulnerable groups, which my group, the Socialists &amp; Democrats, has always strongly supported.
The Europe 2020 strategy is going in the opposite direction of such a claim.
This text preaches hypocrisy.
The European Social Fund (ESF) is the instrument par excellence that allows the creation of new employment and job opportunities, the promotion of the adaptation of workers' skills to the demands of the labour market, and workers' integration into the labour market, along with reinforcing social inclusion.
It is therefore vital for the European Union to achieve the objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy in the field of social and employment affairs.
Thus, the strengthening of this important instrument is essential for us to bring the outlined strategy properly to fruition, reinforced by support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which are the driving force behind the whole economy and primarily responsible for economic and technological development, as well as the creation of jobs.
Newly established training centres and other unlicensed institutions are simply 'laundering' money earmarked for the training of the unemployed and other low-income groups, while the qualifications of trainers are often below the necessary standard.
The European Social Fund has to pay for this negligent state of affairs.
I supported this resolution.
However, if the bringing to account and execution of projects leads to problems in many regions, and if the French PPP training programme, for example, has been waiting for payments for three years on account of a change in competences within the Brussels bureaucracy, the fund is failing in its mission.
We have voted today, in plenary, on a motion for a resolution on the future of the European Social Fund.
As is well known, the European Social Fund plays a key role in supporting the Europe 2020 strategy, the principal objective of which is to achieve inclusive growth, a reduction in poverty, an increase in employment and a rise in training levels with the ultimate aim of creating new and better jobs.
Seen in this light, the primary importance of the fund as a policy tool and its double value, in supporting employment policy and cohesion policy, on the one hand, and in real and harmonious regional development, on the other, can be understood.
This last aspect - and I conclude - is of particular importance in that Europe cannot be said to be truly complete, cohesive and united if all the communities of which it is comprised are not truly developed and have not reached a level of growth that is both steady and uniform as far as possible.
in writing. - We have supported the text which, among other things, notes the key role played by the European Social Fund (ESF) in improving employment and job opportunities, promoting the adaptation of workers' skills to the demands of the labour market, and workers' integration into the labour market, and reinforcing social inclusion.
It also emphasises that substantive progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 targets and objectives, in particular, in the field of employment and social affairs, is essential if the strategy is to be credible.
The resolution is extremely important in that it draws attention to the key role that the European Social Fund plays in improving employment and the quality of work.
It is important to increase the potential of the Structural Funds to support those who may be excluded, thereby optimising the output of social policies and creating sustainable growth for the benefit of all.
The aim of the ESF is to improve workers' employment opportunities and help to improve their living standards.
Synergies between the various EU policies should be encouraged in order to achieve the Europe 2020 growth and employment targets.
However, I am not in favour of making the ESF a financial instrument separate from the other structural funds, with its own rules and budget.
in writing. - As part of the current debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2013, this resolution sets out the Parliament's commitment to ensuring that the European Social Fund remains part of the overall strategy for cohesion funding.
The European Parliament has voted for a resolution on the future of the European Social Fund (ESF).
At a time when the ESF is being questioned, in particular, by the President of the Commission, who wishes to integrate it into a much larger fund with diluted objectives, the European Parliament's support of the ESF is significant.
The resolution supports the role of the ESF in EU regional and social policy and calls for the procedures for allocating funds to be simplified.
Indeed, these highly restrictive procedures do not facilitate the distribution of funds in a way that is really suited to the needs of populations, and they also result in non-consumption of appropriations, particularly in France, which is a scandal in itself.
The European Social Fund plays a key role in improving the employment situation and creating jobs.
I support the priorities called for in the motion for a resolution of updating education systems (including expanding them to include training that is adjusted to the needs of SMEs), the promotion of decent work and, of course, gender equality by creating conditions for reconciling work and family life.
Every possible effort must be made to ensure that EU policies and instruments work together in a coordinated and mutually supportive manner (paragraph 13 of the report).
