The recast on the development of the guidelines of the TEN-T network seeks to bring together the various amendments adopted over the years to the guidelines and to incorporate amendments that take account of the enlargement of the EU to 27 Member States.
The objective is to establish the network gradually by 2020 by integrating land, sea and air transport infrastructure networks throughout the Union.
The point of this recast is to bring everything into order ahead of the real revision of the guidelines during early 2011.
Based on the Green Paper of April 2009, the Commission has launched a public consultation with more than 300 answers and set up six expert groups, which help to work on the results of consultation in a new policy proposal.
So we foresee that this could be presented to the college on 5 May.
So, our expectation is that we will be able to adopt this in the college in the first semester in 2011.
I am very grateful to Parliament for understanding the necessity for minor changes and I am looking forward to our having a very broad and strong debate on new outlines for the trans-European transport network in the months to come.
The in-depth debate on updating the list of TEN-T projects is planned for the end of the year.
This list should include the development of Black Sea maritime corridors, road links with the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, as well as the extension of the current priority projects 6 and 17 so that the high-speed railway line can reach Bucharest and Constanţa.
The broad-gauge railway line from Vladivostok reaches the border of the EU at Čierna nad Tisou.
Even though, at this point, we are only talking about a recasting of the guidelines, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to mention a project that is particularly problematic for Austria.
That is something on which we all agree.
Although the European Parliament had previously come out against the Transrapid system, it suddenly reappeared in 1996 as a project between Berlin and Hamburg.
After leaving office, the former Minister-President of Bavaria, Edmund Stoiber, was appointed to campaign for a reduction in bureaucracy here in Europe.
That is something that we should all take note of.
In this network, in particular, which carries half of all goods and passengers, we need to neutralise a dangerous bottleneck situation.
Romania has three pan-European corridors crossing its territory, 4, 7 and 9, which are all closely linked to the Black Sea port city of Constanţa.
That is what it is all about, and that is also what we will debate accordingly. (DE) Madam President, during this debate, the Brenner Base Tunnel and the new rail route from Munich to Verona have also been mentioned.
Currently, around 50 million tonnes of goods are transported by road on this route and so this tunnel is urgently needed.
For this to happen, however, it would be necessary for the concession for the Brenner motorway not to be put out to tender - as is the current intention as a result of pressure from Europe - but for the Italian State to be given the opportunity to extend this concession for at least another 50 years instead of it being awarded to private tenderers.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, again I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Tourism for its support for this technical recast and I hope that the vote in plenary will confirm it.
I believe this debate will help us to shape our proposal for methodology, which basically means that the Committee on Transport will have a chance to speak about it if everything goes well in May.
deputising for the rapporteur. - Madam President, I would just like to thank the colleagues who have contributed to the debate today and reiterate my point that we are looking at correcting mistakes made in the past and not at making any substantive changes.
