Commission expert groups and balanced representation and transparency (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question by Mr de Jong, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Mr Cashman, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Mr Canfin, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, and Mrs Macovei, to the Commission on the revision of the framework for Commission expert groups and balanced representation and transparency (B7-0010/2011); the oral question by Mrs Lepage, Mrs Wallis and Mrs Ries, on behalf of the ALDE Group, to the Commission on the revision of the framework for Commission expert groups and balanced representation and transparency (B7-0014/2011) Mr President, at the end of last year, the Commission revised the rules for its expert groups.
This means that, in the interests of workers, consumers and SMEs, people from outside Brussels, in particular, should be enabled to take a seat on expert groups.
Directorate-General for Health and Consumers (DG SANCO) has a policy that experts who are recruited in a personal capacity should not be allowed to have any links to organisations which have a direct interest in the remit of a particular expert group.
Morgan, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs - are represented in it.
The composition is very imbalanced: there are many very large companies, very few SMEs, and above all the industrial sector but not civil society.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, of course, I do not know how much you know of the history of this issue, but I am particularly pleased to replace my colleague, Maroš Šefčovič, in replying to this question, because for the last five years it has been my domain.
As we mentioned, the new framework for Commission expert group was adopted in November 2010.
This goes beyond the commitment made by the Commission in the 2005 framework for expert groups, which applied only to members of formal groups.
In 2009, the composition of expert groups was fully disclosed in the register.
Thus, in principle, the names of all members of expert groups are available.
The decision is the Commission's political responsibility.
Do not forget that in 2005 we also launched a transparency register, then called the 'lobbyist register' and now the 'register of interest representatives', which has now developed into a joint register with Parliament.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his response.
Therefore there is all the more reason why we should stress, whenever possible, that bodies connected with the European Union or the European Commission, as well as all other bodies which perform an official function, and this includes the European Parliament, should work as transparently and as openly as possible.
On 7 February, I submitted a written question to the Commission advising it of one aspect of the UK Companies Act 1976.
Section 27 of the Act gives a significant exemption to just one company, the Bank of England Nominees Limited.
This is something that we need to work on urgently. (SK) Mr President, I would like to thank the group of Members for raising this urgent issue.
The first example I would like to give is that, according to Eurostat, 90% of EU citizens are in favour of families consisting of a wife, a husband and their children.
The Commission, however, selects only experts from organizations such as the European Women's Lobby or the Family platform, which seek to break this family model.
As Article 9 of the Treaty makes clear, transparency is not just a matter for the European Commission; it concerns the people of Europe, too. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our daily parliamentary activities we realise that added value is given by access to selected information that supports our legislative role and our work of providing political direction.
The 2010 plan is certainly a significant step forward, but much more needs to be done.
If we feel that the framework for expert groups still has certain shortcomings, despite the current revision, let us give the matter some thought and try to improve it even further. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Barnier has admitted that some of the Commission's expert groups in the financial area are unbalanced and one-sided in their composition.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, it really warms my heart to listen to this discussion.
I should point out that in 2005 we launched a transparency initiative which included the question of expert groups.
There have, of course, been huge changes in relation to this question, with all the websites and information now available.
By this I mean the transparency register, which registers representatives of interest groups.
