Mrs Ewing, in logical terms you are, of course, right.
Mr Cook: Yes, I can rule that out straight away.' Madam President, I wish to remind you that, two days ago, on 17 February, the German writer Ernst Jünger died at the age of 102.
Madam President, I apologize for returning from the heights of Ernst Jünger to the quite ordinary parliamentary level of yesterday's Minutes.
In any case almost 50 Members have signed the resolution.
If the wrong description or wrong terminology is used then that is unfortunate.
So, in order to clarify all this, let us not take a third outside organization into this, namely the Nicole Pery ad hoc committee, because I was a member of that working party and on this particular matter it did not do anything of that nature.
Madam President, on the same subject: item 5 of the Minutes, which is on page 9 in the English version, and your reply to Mrs Ewing.
I am not sure whether that is a carrot or a stick, but I have to inform the two individuals involved that I know my conscience and my duty on Iraq and how I will vote.
All I seek are assurances that we will return to the instructions from the Bureau and that, when a roll-call is called, you will accept my wish to speak and note my presence at that time if I so desire.
Madam President, I have just seen that my name does not appear in the list of Members present.
Madam President, I notice that my name is missing on page 26 of the English version of the roll-call vote on Lange.
I have not had any response concerning this matter nor have I seen any such list.
The Commission hopes to regulate the use of a new generation of products which have appeared on the market in all the Member States, with a view to defining a strict framework covering the nature of these products and their use.
These new products, known as nutritional supplements, cannot be likened to complementary feedingstuffs or additive premixes.
Nutritional supplements are intended to adjust an animal's nutritional intake in response to a temporary increase in its nutritional requirements brought about by critical breeding or living conditions, such as during calving, weaning or at point of lay.
Animal nutrition plays an important role in the human food chain.
It is therefore necessary to ensure that the Directive's scope is clearly apparent from the definition of the term "nutritional supplement' , so as to avoid a legal vacuum in the products used in the animal feed sector between straight or compound feedingstuffs and nutritional supplements.
However, the Commission's position as regards the obligation to register gives rise to some reservations.
In fact, the registration system proposed by the Commission for users of nutritional supplements would in practice create a register of breeders parallel to that provided for in Article 9 of Directive 96/23/EC, which has the aim of ensuring the correct use of substances in stock farming.
Over the last two years we have all become very much more aware of the need to ensure that anything entering the human food chain via animal feed is carefully controlled and presents no dangers, either to human or animal health.
The national legislation which will have to be based on this directive must be clear.
For example, a registration requirement exists for manufacturers of ordinary compound feedingstuffs, or for so-called premixes, but there is no system of approval for these firms.
The rapporteur's proposal to delete the suggested approval procedure for manufacturers of nutritional supplements has our support.
I am convinced that the regulation of sensible animal feed in all its aspects should never be a subject of controversy between farmers, consumers and organizations promoting animal welfare.
It could come about in a codecision procedure with the European Parliament, as is the case with this directive.
I would like to make another remark on something quite different which does not relate to the proposal as such.
In Europe we are improving our standards.
But I am fairly sure that what I am telling you is sound and that we would be making a mistake if in this case we did not implement a declaration with percentages.
For the most part, the Commission agrees with the amendments proposed concerning the draft amendment of Directive 93/74: Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7, aimed at strengthening and clarifying the proposed measures can be included in their entirety; in the same way, Amendments Nos 1 and 6 can be approved, on the condition that a slight change is made to ensure that there is greater coherence between the provisions of the regulation concerned and some of the amendments which have been taken over.
In addition, the Commission can approve Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10, aimed at simplifying the amendment of Directive 95/69 as regards the approval and registration of certain establishments and intermediaries operating in the animal feed sector.
Madam President, can you ask the Commissioner if my statements, made in reference to the Commission's statements, are correct?
The discussion is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all, as the rapporteur in the Initiative Report on the impact of biotechnology on agriculture, to thank very sincerely all those who have helped me so magnificently in the work.
Every new technology conceals risks within itself but also promises advantages.
Of course it always has to be borne in mind, that with any use of genetic-technologically modified organisms the principle must always apply that health and the environment must not be damaged in any way.
European agriculture needs this technology as an essential means of improving its technical proficiency and the effects on the environment.
Bio-technology and its application together will fundamentally determine the development of agriculture.
Finally I would like to point out that in many spheres, but particularly in our capacity as politicians, we are not only responsible for what we do but also for what we do not do.
I would like once more to appeal to the Commissioner at the end of this discussion to tell us quite clearly how the Commission plans to proceed in this matter against the background of this Initiative Report.
There are three aspects of interest to agriculture.
The first is environmental.
The second aspect of interest is that of development of food products worldwide to face the problems of food safety resulting from the population increase.
We know that the Commission is active in the sense, that work programmes and proposals exist that are aimed at this sector.
Unfortunately, surveys show that at this stage more than half of European citizens are opposed to the release and marketing of genetically modified foods.
Madam President, I would firstly like to thank our colleague for her excellent report which reasserts the fact that biotechnology should come under a specific and individual programme within the Commission's 5th Framework Programme.
It is important to point out that the European Union has already made significant efforts in research and the application of biotechnology in agriculture and the agro-food industry.
Modern agriculture will have to face up to the major challenge of providing for a world population which, according to forecasts, will double over the next 30 years, and this at a time when we are experiencing a global reduction in the amount of land available for cultivation.
In the years to come, modern agriculture will have an additional challenge to face: respect for man and for the environment.
In order to maintain the competitiveness not only of agriculture but also of its related industries, it is important to supply it with the means necessary to participate in the game of world competition, particularly within the controlled framework of reducing Community aid to agriculture, as laid out in Agenda 2000.
Biotechnology can provide solutions, but we obviously cannot accept them at any price.
The report also delves into the problems and doubts which consumers indisputably still have regarding genetic engineering.
Madam President, my group does not share the optimism with regard to the impact and benefits of gene technology.
I look forward to the conflict between these two areas and the competition in the positive sense.
However, we must recognize that it forms a good basis for discussion because Madame rapporteur has objectively presented us with the opportunities and challenges of biotechnology applied to agriculture.
These choices are at odds with our convictions and with our European way of conceiving durable development.
Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report in a very difficult field.
Everyone involved in this crisis has suffered: producers, consumers and the ancillary industries.
This was despite the very low incidence of BSE in the province and our excellent traceability system, which is better than anywhere else in the whole European Union.
The Commission has proposed a lifting of this ban in Northern Ireland.
The discussion on biotechnology is indeed usually a very controversial one and like many other Members I, too, see advantages and positive effects in this field.
At any rate there must be the greatest possible degree of safety and all questions about any procedural step must be clarified before a further stage in the development can take place.
I am a supporter of the concept of sustainability and the development of renewable resources but I also live in the real world.
The future of world agriculture, the profession of farming, the health of our citizens and employment in the food sector are dependent on the development of a sustainable agriculture based on the benefits of ongoing research and the application of carefully tested new technology.
The interviewees on the whole have little faith in their governments, as these restrict themselves to a risk analysis of new products for the safety of humans and animals.
The Bible teaches us that in nature we are dealing with God's creation.
The fact that 27 out of 43 registered products are in the name of the United States says something about the ease with which they handle such techniques.
I regard as particularly questionable Point 16 of the report which declares cross-frontier open experiments to be appropriate.
Madam President, I also wish to thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for her own-initiative report on the impact of biotechnology on agriculture, which sets out in a very balanced way the opportunities and risks presented by the rapidly expanding development of biotechnological processes.
However, as previous speakers have pointed out, these profits should be made within a basic ethical and regulatory framework to ensure that new biotechnological products are beneficial, rather than harmful, to the health of human beings and other living creatures, and also to the wider environment.
Madam President, today, world food problems are more complex than they were twenty or thirty years ago, in terms of volume of production in some parts of the world, such as like Africa and Asia, or of quality, as in the case of the European Union.
Finally, I would like to say how important it is that the next round of GATT should include clear rules in this regard, without which unacceptable distortions of trade could well be created.
We can fight against viral diseases in sugar beet, the European corn borer, fungus on potatoes which can lower harvests by 20 % and we are even building plant factories.
In addition, there is a contradiction: a contradiction between fallow land and the genetically modified organisms.
There is obviously a very real risk from the multinational monopolies seized by Novartis, Cargyll or Monsanto, since these multinationals in the Arizona desert have stockpiled more than six million plants for which they possess the patent.
My colleagues have not seen any mechanical factors, or dare I say quantum factors, which are much more dangerous and which involve the molecular composition of plants.
All plants and all life are made up of four sugar sticks: ATCN.
There is therefore a risk involved in the great universal harmony and the great universal division; there is the risk of a false, yet to be found, molecular note.
It is important that consumers themselves should be able to decide whether they want to eat these products.
Finally, I would like to emphasize once more that it is essential to mark these new products so that consumers themselves can decide what they want to eat.
Here in the European Parliament, we have passed a proposal that ecological products must not contain any genetically modified organisms.
As the report rightly points out, European agriculture must show itself to be less conservative and must take advantage of this new technology, since its many different applications would allow Europe to face up to the constant impoverishment of its natural resources and the continuous rise in its population's needs.
The adoption of Directives 90/219 and 90/220 on genetically modified organisms reflects our Institution's constant desire to welcome innovation, while at the same time endeavouring to control it in order to better protect the environment and the population.
I have noted with much interest that the Commission's attitude towards biotechnology is shared by those responsible for the report, who advocate a style of agricultural production which is open to this new technology, as long as it respects the environment.
The Commission will soon submit new proposals for a more adequate regulation on genetic engineering and an improvement in the procedure set out in Directive 90/220 for the authorization of established genetic organisms.
I can assure you that the Commission will study with extreme care all the recommendations set out in this report, as well as those presented orally here this morning, with specific questions, and it will endeavour to take them into account in its future proposals.
The discussion is now closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
This report is part of a long series of initiatives which the Commission has already taken and will continue to take in order that we shall eventually have a set of rules to apply to the numerous new means and methods of payment which are being rapidly introduced.
I think this problem requires new consideration by all of us.
Here I refer to the payment card VISA Electron.
It is anticipated, as the rapporteur has indicated, that by the end of this century a significant share of retail commerce will be on the Internet, a development that is expected to be boosted by the advent of the single currency.
The discussion on this item of the Agenda will continue this evening at 6.00 p.m.
The letter was intended to draw attention to Amendment No 12 tabled by the Green Group, asking him to vote against the war.
After the vote on Amendment No 33 Mr President, pursuant to the rules brought in by the Bureau, I wish to put on record that I am present but did not partake in the vote.
Mr Crowley, this was not a roll-call vote, it was a simple electronic verification.
After the roll-call vote on Amendment No 2 Mr President, could I again have my presence noted in the Chamber?
Mr President, that was a very important statement.
On occasion I may wish to exercise my right to record my vote.
For this reason, this Parliament rejected the common position in 1996.
The new proposal sets out both clearer and stricter criteria which integrate some new elements into the process of eliminating waste: reduction, pre-treatment, control of methane gas emissions, recycling and recovery, etc.
It will oblige the Member States to draw up a national strategy aimed at reducing biodegradable waste by 50 % by the year 2005 and to ensure that only pre-treated waste, with the exception of inert material, is deposited in landfills.
It would therefore be best to have minimum rules in the area of waste, so that individual countries can introduce tougher rules if they so wish.
I think, of course, that the EU should do all in its power to encourage the Member States to get to grips with this issue.
In fact, the common position adopted by the Council had been considered much too lax, particularly due to the numerous derogations it provided for, our Chamber rejected the proposal during the second reading, at the part-session in May 1996.
I am glad that this new proposal incorporates much more precise and rigorous criteria as regards the derogations to the Directive's field of application as well as some new elements, such as the pre-treatment of waste before sending it to landfills, a ban on the joint-disposal of dangerous and non-dangerous waste, etc...
These new elements will undoubtably contribute to the application of higher standards in the elimination of waste throughout the European Union.
Some of the amendments provide necessary clarification, particularly as regards responsibility during and after the exploitation of sites.
Grosch report (A4-0018/98) With the proposal for a directive we are considering, the Commission is trying to establish uniform specifications in respect of safety requirements and the professional competence of cabin crews in civil aviation.
The trial which has just begun in Andorra (outside the European Union) is a sad reminder of the fact that almost two million people are killed or injured in the European Union every year.
The economic consequences have also been taken into consideration.
Le Rachinel report (A4-0024/98) We have abstained from voting because we are opponents of centrally imposed EU labels and see this as a step in that direction.
Since some European countries do not want to abandon a national sign on their registration plates, there should be no problem if the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg accepts the Commission's proposal or if Luxembourg cars also have a registration plate with an L in the middle of 12 stars on a blue background.
Poisson report (A4-0020/98) On behalf of the Danish Social Democrats, I have tabled an amendment to the report on foods for special nutritional purposes.
I therefore call on the Commission to support this amendment, and at the same time I demand that the Commission conduct a risk analysis into all antibiotic growth promotors.
Saying no to the use of antibiotic growth promoters in this context will hopefully open the way for us to obtain a general ban in the EU on using these toxic substances in the long run.
Berend report (A4-0016/98) Mr President, I have voted in favour of this report although the parts containing the evaluation of the grants appear to be too slight.
We support the rapporteur in welcoming the concentration, simplification and reduction in the number of forms of intervention proposed by the Commission in Agenda 2000.
From an Irish point of view, we have always been efficient in spending structural funds.
Although we cannot and should not expect the same level of structural fund aid in the future, it is nonetheless important that there is a reasonable transition period.
These problems are due to many, varied reasons according to the administrative organization of each Member State.
However, the Commission is no longer free from all reproach in this process!
The province of Connaught and the border county region are not as wealthy as the east coast of Ireland and should not be put in the same bracket when it comes to the disbursing of EU Structural Funds monies.
I furthermore would like to welcome comments of Jacques Santer, when he stated that he supports the continuation of the Leader II Rural Development scheme and the INTERREG II cross-border scheme during the period 2000/2006.
I believe that the Commission must ensure that its proposals for transitional arrangements for countries such as Ireland do not undermine the progress made over the last few years.
Regions of the country which have still not reached the threshold level in terms of their economic growth should not be penalised because of the strong growth level recorded in other parts of the country.
The Commission must recognize the importance of appropriate transitional arrangements and the need to differentiate between regions with strong growth levels and those with weak growth levels within individual countries, prior to formulating their proposals.
I have voted in favour of the Berend report because it is a comprehensive analysis of the causes of under-implementation of resources.
Structural fund actions are the key budgetary tool which Europe has to tackle unemployment, support job creation and underpin the Treaty objective of economic and social cohesion.
The Socialist Group amendment to paragraph 32 was tabled in order not to give carte blanche to the Commission to penalize or sanction Member States for the non-utilization of resources.
Our prime objective must be to improve the flow of resources to the final beneficiaries and to support those regions in most need.
I am pleased that the rapporteur and the PPE Group chose finally to support the PSE Amendment No 8 in plenary vote.
This is a well-written report which addresses the urgent need for improvement in the implementation of Structural Fund appropriations.
Those of us who represent regions where there is a strong Structural Fund dimension to economic and social development have been calling for improvements in the implementation of the entire programme for a long time.
I make the same point in regard to structural funding as I do on most social issues which is that the expertise at national and local level should be used as much as possible.
The presentation of this report on the implementation of the Structural Funds presents our group with the opportunity to make a brief point on the very future of the Structural Funds.
In fact, within the framework of Agenda 2000, it is the European Union's duty to welcome in some of the CEECs and Cyprus, which, as I recall, will all be eligible for Objective 1 status, while respecting the inescapable financial framework of the 0.46 % of GDP laid down for Member States of the European Union.
The proposals drawn up by the Commission in its Agenda 2000 communication are deceptive since they underestimate the economic consequences of enlargement.
According to the Commission, the new Objective 2 should only benefit 18 % of the Community population.
Nowadays, it is the rural regions in the European Union that benefit from having Objective 5a status.
It is essential to remind ourselves that structural aid to help the rural world was developed in 1992/1993 in order to compensate for the reform of the CAP and to respond to the devastating effects of internationalization and the GATT.
In reality, there are two obstacles to using all the Structural Fund appropriations.
In fact, to make better use of the funds, the European Commission demands that they be co-financed by Member States and/or local or regional authorities.
Joint motion for a resolution on the Kyoto Summit Just a few months after the Kyoto Conference, the first signs of that agreement's inadequacy to deal with the serious environmental problems faced by our planet and mankind are beginning to emerge.
As we approach the Fourth Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climatic Change, we must not forget that the European Union, with 6 % of the world's population, produces over 14 % of CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions.
The reduction of those emissions by 15 % in the European Union should be regarded as a minimum contribution, which alongside the application of appropriate policies and technology, could result in lower costs.
Support for programmes promoting the use of renewable energy sources must become a prime objective of the Union and its Member States, as well as appropriate planning of the reduction of emissions in each sector, for example transport, industry, energy, etc.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the resolution putting pressure on the EU Commission and Council to get them to go furthest and provide a good example at the climate negotiations.
Well, it is intervening under the Helms-Burton law, the law of the big stick, the law of Delano Roosevelt, the law of the strongest.
The possession and threatened use of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction is morally indefensible no matter who is the possessor or who poses the threat.
The UN experts must be able to carry out their work in accordance with Resolution 687 of the Security Council.
However, if military action was attempted, only Saddam Hussein would be morally responsible.
However, irrespective of the outcome of these negotiations, we would not accept any actions against Iraq that are not authorized by the Security Council of the United Nations.
Any other solution would be harmful both to the principle of international law and, more importantly, the credibility of the arguments that the Western powers employ against Iraq.
There were many victims in both camps and Saddam Hussein remained in power.
It is still necessary to explore as well all the diplomatic routes and, above all, to avoid a confrontation between the West and the Arab world.
Europe must assert itself and Tony Blair must move away from his visceral Atlanticism and remember that he holds the Presidency of the Union.
If, in order to achieve peace, we need to know how to make war, then this must only ever come as an extreme and last resort.
This resolution on the situation in Iraq can only lead us to regret the fact that the European Union lacks a common security and defence policy.
There is absolutely no proof that Iraq represents a military threat, either to its neighbours or the world.
The motion for a resolution on the situation in Iraq determines the framework for a positive compromise on the attitude which Europeans should defend within international bodies, in particular the idea that military intervention should not be used to ensure that international law is respected unless all diplomatic options have been explored and exploited.
The European Union show that it is determined to ensure that the UN is recognized as the decision-making body, and refuse the de facto leadership of a single country, in this case the United States of America.
In this crisis, the European Union should have acted more coherently and we regret that certain heads of state rushed to the side of the American President to support his plan for military intervention.
Apart from the disastrous human effects military intervention in Iraq would have, we have the right to question the effectiveness of such a decision if the desired aims are actually those stated: the respect of international rules and the refusal to allow Iraq to arm itself with chemical and nuclear weapons.
It is frightening to think that after such intervention, the Iraqi regime might still be anti-democratic, inspections more difficult and the country might continue to arm itself on its own territory or elsewhere.
Finally, the policy of double standards should not be applied within the framework of international law and of the respect for agreements signed.
Our Parliament and Europe must endeavour to ensure that the peace process in the Middle East continues as expected and, along with the UN, take useful steps in respect of the commitments made.
Peace in Iraq, in the Middle East, is the result of sustained, balanced action based solely on the application of law.
Iraq must abide by the terms set up by the UN, and the SNP accepts that the UN has the right to use force in order to secure acceptance as a last resort if all other means fail.
Joint motion for a resolution on the 54th United Nations Assembly It is very disappointing that although the EU will be taking effective action on Nigeria, Burma and the rights of women and children, there will not be a similar initiative on human rights abuses in China.
Paragraph 1 names a whole list of countries in which breaches of human rights take place, and which the report particularly wants to point out.
We agree that breaches of human rights happen in Cuba, but in Latin America there are also a number of other countries where these breaches are considerably worse than in Cuba.
In paragraph 2 special priority is given to Algeria.
We agree that this is necessary in view of the serious situation in the country, but some other states could also be mentioned here, such as Colombia, where the state-sponsored terrorism against large parts of the country's population is getting worse.
Seal report (A4-0015/98) I wish to place on record my support for Amendment No 3 in the name of the GUE/NGL Group.
This amendment expresses support for the right of Ryanair workers to join a trade union and have that trade union represent them in negotiations with their employers.
The rapporteur fully accepts the EU's entire policy and rationale.
The rapporteur states clearly that liberalization has led to an increase in size of the whole air transport market and that the forecasts for the coming decade are an annual growth rate of 6-7 per cent (observations J and L respectively).
Using genetically modified plants in open natural systems can have damaging effects which we have no way of assessing today.
Apart from the environmental implications and risks which genetic engineering involves, we cannot be sure that genetically modified organisms will not have an adverse effect on human health, even if no such health problems can be shown in connection with such organisms today.
Agriculture in the next millennium must face up to a two-fold challenge: feeding a world population which will double over the next 30 years while respecting man and the environment.
In the Commission's proposals in Agenda 2000, we clearly see a desire to advance the globalization of European agriculture by lowering administered prices and decreasing the level of aid.
It is, in fact, the same people who want both to decrease aid to agriculture and delay the development of technological agriculture.
To allow this revolution to pass us by outside European frontiers, while at the same time abolishing Community preferences, would lead to the total destruction of our agriculture.
I fear that it is too sanguine about the possibility of controlling biotechnology and about the part biotechnology could play in feeding the world.
It is a disgrace how the President and the Bureau are handling these matters.
The best way forward is a vote for a resolution that not only firmly condemns the Taliban regime and all its supporters, including trustworthy western powers, but also asks forcefully for support for the Commission and that all possible measures to be taken to overthrow the Taliban regime, contrary to what some organizations are doing, such as the UNDCP, which is trying to reach an agreement with the regime.
There is no other country in the world where this type of human rights violation is as acute as in Afghanistan.
It is unthinkable that this would meet simply with mild toleration Mr President, I would like to draw your attention once more to Article 11, because the Taliban regime is partly kept in the saddle by a number of nations which recognize the country.
With these countries we, the European Union, maintain political and economic relations without too much difficulty.
But the way in which they are treated by the odious Taliban regime in Afghanistan, a country which has been ravaged for many years since it was occupied by the Soviet Union, far surpasses the limits of our imagination now at the end of the 20th century.
We want to make use of this day, 8 March, to make public opinion aware of the distress of Afghan women, who are deprived of the most fundamental human rights by the Taliban regime.
Imagine the only use women had was to bear children.
Mr President, we have already heard a great deal.
We know about the situation of women unfortunate enough to have been born in Afghanistan and now living there.
Let us ask, however, what our own responsibilities are - I mean in the broadest sense - in the matter.
Because we often speak about illiberal regimes, we often speak about the fate of people living under such regimes, but seldom do we think that many of those regimes would never have seen the light of day, that much of the misery of people living in those countries would not exist, if the countries of the so-called free and civilized world did not have a share of responsibility for those misfortunes.
Perhaps the feminists will find a solution, because although we often speak about human rights, we frequently do all we can in the free world to prevent human rights from flourishing.
This situation is intolerable.
I am therefore glad that the International Women's Day on 8 March is being devoted to Afghan women, as a symbol of our solidarity and to raise the awareness of international opinion.
This Day should not be a last-ditch struggle but the starting point for a campaign to express our support for the Afghan women who struggle for their freedom and their dignity, by applying in their own way the belief of the Algerian poet Jean Senac, that a hunted life invents another life.
The courageous Roses of Afghanistan, as I would like to call these women, need our solidarity, and the European Parliament, above all the women, supports all organizations, all projects which might improve the situation of women in Afghanistan.
The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission must combine their forces and use the humanitarian aid just agreed on worth 34 million German marks in particular for the women, who are especially burdened and needy.
One emphasis of this year's International Women's Day on 8 March will be to draw attention to the glaring violation of women's rights in Afghanistan and exert international pressure on the government in Kabul.
If on 8 March the International Women's Day really has any meaning, then it is for these women who cannot fight against their repression.
The west has values that really belong to the whole of humanity: the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights and, in this case, in particular, women's rights.
We therefore cannot accept the lack of respect for these principles by the current Kabul regime, particularly with regard to respect for women's rights.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the European Union, concerned about the prolonged civil war in Afghanistan, has recently delivered a common position on the ongoing struggle, the continuing instability in the region, the human rights situation in the country as well as the drugs and terrorism which come from Afghanistan.
Faced with possible discrimination in new or ongoing projects, the Commission will put a hold on these projects.
The Commission proposes that all positions on this sensitive matter conform to the guidelines set out in this report.
The European Commission warmly welcomes the solidarity maintained by Parliament with respect to the situation of women in Afghanistan, as well as its support for the campaign on the 8 March, "A flower for the women of Kabul' , which it is organizing to mark International Women's Day.
This does not mean that the European Commission is against alternative development - we practise it in other parts of the world, such as in the Mediterranean with Morocco, Latin America, Bolivia, Colombia and Peru.
We agree with alternative developments but we do not believe that, at the moment, the situation in Afghanistan, currently at war, is capable of implementing a programme of alternative development to fight against the cultivation of opium, at least until things change radically in the country.
As regards the earthquake in Tajar, we are working via ECHO and through emergency operations with the Red Cross and Médecins sans frontières (Belgium), and when there is a bit more breathing space, the Commission will have no problem in moving on to rehabilitation efforts.
In terms of some of the questions just raised by Members here, the global plan for humanitarian aid to Afghanistan for 1998 comes to ECU 17 million.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I would like to remind you that the victims of this tragedy belong to six European countries, five of which are part of the European Community.
If that were the case, it would be my intention, at 17: 30, on agreement with the other authors of the resolution, to submit an oral amendment to note this important fact.
Madam President, it has already been said but I wish to confirm that, on 3 February, twenty innocent citizens of German, Belgian, Italian, Polish, Austrian and Dutch nationality in an Italian tourist spot, Cavalese, enjoying a few days' rest and leisure, lost their lives owing to an accident caused during a military exercise from a US air base in Aviano, which cut the cables of the Mount Cermis cableway and caused the tragedy.
In confirming what has been stressed several times by the local Trentino-Alto Adige authorities on the dangers of military flights in low-altitude exercises over territory in the Trentino and Alto Adige valleys, and therefore on the need to suspend them, the draft resolution asks the US civilian and military authorities to cooperate fully in the investigation aimed at establishing causes and responsibilities, with the transparent use of all sources of information and evidence.
A further agreement on safety procedure is requested between the US and Member States of the EU involved in the NATO, with a total prohibition of low-altitude military flights in regions at great risk of safety to the civilian populations.
In fact, not only do these bases not fall under the jurisdiction of the host countries, but any offences committed by the American personnel at these bases lie outside the jurisdictional scope of the country in which they have been committed and fall into the sphere of competence of the American judges.
We therefore urge a revision of Article 7 of the London Convention governing jurisdictional competence.
Madam President, the tragedy of the Cermis cableway has firstly affected the families of the victims and their grief will certainly not find solace in our words.
We certainly all know that the bulk of these exercises were connected with the peace mission in Bosnia, in which in recent years our involvement also extended to the pilots and soldiers ensuring the success of the mission.
It was on 6 December 1990, Mrs Fontaine.
We had just been visiting the Yad Vashem Museum, when the ambassador for my country 'phoned me with the news.
The proposals contained in the resolution we are going to approve, as a group, have this object: to avoid a repetition of the proceedings that ended with the words: no-one is guilty!
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that the European Parliament is taking a position in response to the accident in Cavalese, because not only should there be stricter rules, but it appears from an investigation which has progressed a little further today that the existing rules have not been complied with.
It was flying at barely 150 meters where the permitted minimum flying height is 300 meters, or according to Italian standards, as much as 600 meters.
Low level military exercise flights must be forbidden where there is a danger to civilians.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself in a very difficult position because, naturally, the European Commission shares the sorrow felt by the Members for the victims and understands the irrationality of the accident, which should never be repeated.
However, as you know, the Commission has no authority in this matter to implement many of the measures you ask for in your resolution.
I would add on behalf of my group I request the suspension of the critical dialogue with Iran.
We as Europeans have, rightly, I think, have respect for Islam and Muslim culture, but political Islam as it reaches us from Iran, damages the reputation of Muslim culture, an damages in my view the respectable position of Muslims within the European Union.
The punishment imposed on Helmut Hofer, who oversteps the limits of courtesy in Iran, is of course out of all proportion.
I am also thinking the 99 strokes of the cane for the lady who was involved in the incident with Helmut Hofer.
The fact that Iran is nonetheless open to criticism and to an urgent call to turn from its ways, is demonstrated by the release of editor Faraj Sarkouhi.
The Union must naturally turn itself forcefully against the human rights violations in Iran, this we already know, and this will act as support for the country's reform minded forces.
Madam President, the editor of Iran News , a German national, an Iranian woman, and a writer all have the death threat hanging over them in a country with a centuries old civilization in which religious dictatorship lays down the law.
If you are familiar with the fact, Mr President, that the current President Khatami was the Minister of Culture nine years ago and the fatwa against Rushdie came under his responsibility, then one has to seriously question the call this same Khatami now makes as President for dialogue and relaxation in the sphere of culture.
When, moreover, official government officials compare the Rushdie affair with pronouncements made by Roger Garaudy, who denies the genocide of six million Jews, then we may conclude that we are a long way off from any relaxation with and within the Iranian regime.
If Iran does have good intentions, and if the positive signal of the release of the editor really does mean something, then the concrete step-by-step dialogue will start, and today's resolution in which we ask for these people not to be executed, might be a good example of this.
Madam President, Commissioner, for the umpteenth time we have to deal with serious cases of violation of human rights in Iran.
As recalled, Morteza Firouzi, the editor of Iran News, has recently been sentenced to death.
Another barbarity is that of the 99 lashes inflicted on the young woman accused of having sexual relations with the German citizen.
I think that Council and the Commission should exert all possible pressure, at all levels, to guarantee at least a minimum level of civility.
Apart from this example, the joint motion for a resolution points out how consistently and cynically the Iranian regime scorns human rights and continues to defy the international community, by going against the fundamental democratic rules on which our public, international law is based.
Madam President, my colleagues from the various groups have reiterated the concern we all have.
Far from having improved, we all have the impression that the human rights situation in Iran is getting worse and that, despite the countries of the European Union holding out their hand, the Iranian regime is answering with provocations with respect to the two European citizens that have been mentioned.
Individual cases have been mentioned here, but we do not how many other cases and situations we are unaware of, due to the situation in the country where the regime does not permit the basic rules of democracy and transparency.
It seems to me that, rather than improving, the human rights situation has deteriorated; the Community institutions must therefore reflect seriously and set out the reasons why they believe that this is the case.
This is demonstrated most clearly in the reaffirmation of the fatwa against Salman Rushdie and the death sentence by stoning on the German businessman, Helmut Hofer, which has already been referred to by many Members in this House.
In these circumstances, it is important that Parliament reiterates its appeal to the Council and to European Union Member States to maintain and increase the pressure on the Iranian regime on human rights issues.
Mr President, what is really serious about what is happening in Iran, with the repeated attacks on human rights, is that it is taking place in the name of Islam and in reference to the Koran.
Respect for this great world religion is undermined, not only among Europeans and Americans, but throughout the world.
Obviously it is Parliament's business to protest against what is happening in Iran, and not only there, but also in Algeria and other places.
Mauritania Mr President, I would like to thank the different groups that supported the European Radical Alliance's initiative concerning Mauritania and I would like to give you some details about the resolution.
The Mauritanian authorities were disturbed at the fact that our text, according to them, exposed the practice of slavery in Mauritania.
It condemns slavery in general and points out, on the contrary, that, according to the Mauritanian government, slavery no longer exists in their country.
The aim of our resolution was precisely to defend this right of expression and, in the case of legal proceedings, to ensure that everyone receives a fair trial.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 February four Mauritanian people were convicted.
But we must also consider and say that the international community of states is really called upon to do everything in its power - and this applies not just to Mauritania, but also to other states where slavery still exists - to bring this situation to an end.
Quick changes are needed, and I obviously call on the Council, but also the Commission, to follow the developments in Mauritania closely, and to come up with proposals if the problems in Mauritania turn out to be structural.
Mr President, like other African countries, Mauritania is in the process of institutional reform.
Compared with several years ago, several significant steps have certainly been taken, although they are anything but perfect, on electoral matters and on the organization of the institutional and political system.
From this point of view, the position of the Mauritanian authorities therefore seemed surprising and unacceptable to us, for they have begun a campaign of repression against the exponents of associations committed to the defence of human rights.
For these reasons, we cannot accept logic of this kind and we believe it necessary to help the Chilean population and the Chilean MPs opposed to this initiative.
It is understandable, but I can only say one thing: I have experienced much in my life and I have always been able to learn two lessons from it.
Pinochet is today the clearest example of the impunity in Latin America, and I would say in the world.
Mr President, it is obvious that this is a democratic Parliament which makes democracy the focus and objective of its actions and which has always displayed enormous interest in and concern for the evolution of countries which have come out of a dictatorship, and particularly in Chile.
In addition, at the same time, we gave our support and approval to the process of democratization, and we can today gladly state that Chile is a democratic country.
I am totally against those who argue that this type of intervention is interference in external affairs of another country.
I believe that in the global village the world has become, we all have the right and the obligation to give our own opinion, particularly when there is a case of interference in human rights.
Through this resolution we are showing our support for the Chilean government, the political parties, the institutions and the citizens in general who are looking for justice.
I believe, as stated here, that it is a direct action against impunity, and the best way to prevent future dictatorships.
Mr President, the European Parliament has a strong record of condemning violations in Chile under the former military dictatorship of General Pinochet and of welcoming the return to civilian rule and the genuine progress which is being achieved in the observance of human rights in that country.
This is why we cannot allow the appointment of Pinochet to Chile's Senate, due on the 11 of next month, and subject to protest by all the main political parties in Chile, to pass without international protest from ourselves.
So be it, because we are very modest, as you know.
The European Parliament has several times pronounced on Belarus.
The European Parliament is not silent and something is being done in Belarus.
The programme which we have now is too narrow but we are grateful that we have been able to set it up.
Nevertheless the resolution is necessary and it is important that we state our case.
Well, this Parliament must not let something like this slip passed, and must point out in all its relations that we defend the development, but also human rights, democracy, and the rule of law in this big African country.
The brutal arrest and unlawful internment of Etienne Fishekedi, in Kinshasa on 12 February are just the latest episode in a deliberate design of the authorities of that country to destroy any real opposition.
The restoration of the rule of law and the real commencement of a process of genuine democratization are the minimum conditions for maintaining EU aid.
The European Union, but also all the Member States, should send the Kinshasa government a firm reminder before it is too late for the Congo Democratic Republic as well, as has often happened in the past.
I must say that I am not surprised that we are witnessing a repeat scenario, because the way in which Kabila came to power had little or nothing to do with a real uprising form within, but more with several countries surrounding the former Zaire wanting to settle something.
Mr President, it goes without saying that the Group of the European Radical Alliance supports all the demands and all the steps aimed at a general improvement of human rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and particularly the speedy liberation of imprisoned political opponents.
The country's particular situation raises three other points.
Firstly, we should regret the fact that Parliament and certain Member States of the Union have not shown, in the past, the same democratic vigilance with regard to Mr Mobutu or his neighbour, Mr Habyarimana.
Mr President, I would like to clarify some of the various points on human rights put forward by the different speakers.
The Commission would be prepared to urge the Iranian government to permit the special rapporteur to enter the country as soon as possible, in order to allow him to draw up a report on the human rights situation in Iran.
As the Union has reiterated many times, the Commission still deeply regrets the existence of the fatwa against the British author, Salman Rushdie, which has already been in place for nine years.
We welcome the recent liberation of Mr Faraj Sahouhi and we hope that his case will set a precedent for more liberal individual human rights policies on the part of the Iranian government.
The Commission also warmly welcomed the decision by the Council of General Subjects on 26 January to reconsider European Union relations with Iran under the current circumstances, and this question - relations with Iran - will in fact be one of the main points at the meeting of the Council of General Subjects next Monday.
As regards Mauritania, the Commission has, through the usual channels, followed with great concern the arrest and sentencing of Mauritanians who were demonstrating in favour of human rights, and it has informed the Mauritanian ambassador in Brussels of our concerns and also that we want to be kept informed about the situation.
In general, cooperation between Mauritania and the European Commission has been aimed at consolidating democracy and the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental liberties, and we must recognize that, at least in the case of Mauritania, very positive efforts have been made in recent years with respect to the country's situation and a significant process of democratization has been started.
But I am here to represent the institutional position of the Commission.
As regards Belarus, the violations of human rights of individuals or groups opposed to the Belorussian regime are unfortunately true.
Therefore, these two conditions are going to be set out in February and March.
For that reason, you will have an answer regarding the OSCE in Minsk after February, and regarding the negotiations with the government after March, and the Commission will present its evaluation to the Council and Parliament in April.
These sub-critical tests - I will briefly explain, they are tests to see whether one's nuclear material is still in good condition - are not contrary to the letter nuclear test ban treaty, the CTBT, but they do violate its spirit very seriously.
The nuclear nonproliferation treaty is linked to the CTBT and will therefore be under great pressure.
Instead, the EU Member States should lodge a protest with the United States, and invite them to end these tests.
Moreover, the Union should make a joint effort to get other countries to ratify the CTBT Treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, classical case for the EU to prove that it is serious about a common foreign and security policy, for the comprehensive banning of these tests has been signed by all EU Member States.
Mr President, after many years of negotiations and strong opposition both from nuclear powers and threshold states, it was finally decided to have a comprehensive ban on all nuclear weapons testing.
The argument that these tests have to be carried out in order to be sure about the safety and reliability of existing nuclear weapons stocks fails on its own absurdity.
Many countries and a large number of members of the American Congress have expressed their concern over these tests.
Our resolution therefore demands consequently that the American government should stop these tests, that it should state in an official declaration that these tests are not part of a new weapons development programme and that the development of new nuclear weapons is not part of the USA's policy.
We have submitted no motion for a resolution, we are not going to table any amendments and, in fact, the Group of the European People's Party intends to vote against all of these resolutions.
Each of us would prefer if we could do without all these things, but since we have people in the world like Saddam Hussein and the like we cannot in my opinion afford as it were to divest ourselves completely of all our defence capabilities whilst Saddam Hussein for his part has no thoughts of following a good example which under certain circumstances could be given here.
The entry into force of this Treaty will undoubtedly lead to a crucial stage of disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation at international level.
Madam speaker, I am as in favour of the suspension of nuclear testing as I can be, but the fact is that it is very difficult for the Commission to make a proposal since, as you all know, it has no authority to do so.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Floods in Greece Mr President, on 2 and 5 February catastrophic floods of unprecedented severity afflicted many parts of Eastern Macedonia, Thrace, and some islands in the East and North Aegean.
So besides adopting specific resolutions - and there are clearly no objections to that, which is why we are debating it here -, perhaps we ought in future to examine another more effective way not just of expressing solidarity but of becoming more effective in substance.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the severe bad weather that has recently affected many countries in Europe and all over the world is the result of man's ill-considered intervention in the environment.
Mr President, I presume that you, as a neighbour from the region, although from another country, are aware of the heavy rains and violent winds experienced in Malaga from 31 January to 5 February.
The damages represent more than 21 000 million pesetas.
I, on behalf, I would say, of almost all of the Spanish delegation, regardless of the group they belong to, would ask the Commission, through this resolution, to secure emergency aid to relieve the damage in the province of Malaga.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended for 15 minutes while awaiting Voting Time) We shall now proceed to the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
During the vote on the accident caused by a plane in Italy: Mr President, as the news has been published today that the Italian Government has asked the US Government to allow proceedings to be heard on the incident in Cavalese in Italy, we believe this new fact should be included in the resolution and, with the agreement of many colleagues, I would therefore like to submit the following oral amendment: "notes the formal request made by the Italian Government to the US Government to allow proceedings to be heard in Italy' .
If everyone agrees, we can approve it. (Parliament accepted the oral amendment and adopted the resolution) After the vote on floods in Greece : Mr President, concerning the four resolutions on floods which the House has just voted for, three-quarters of an hour ago an insult was offered to the dignity of Parliament.
Besides, even when that budget line had not been abolished, such aid was non-existent, very limited, or it never reached its target.
In the resolution on Greece we are not asking for money from the Diaster Fund, but from the Structural Funds, and therefore not the ECU 5 million from before.
In fact, before the vote, I had to explain, particularly to Mr Ephremidis - and I believe I did so calmly - that I was sorry to have to say that we cannot secure any aid for natural catastrophes because the budget heading B4-3400 has been removed.
Secondly, as regards the Structural Funds, there is another problem: the Structural Funds Regulation does not allow for payments to cover natural catastrophes.
I would like to support Colleague Ephremidis in his efforts on behalf of the flood victims but not in his demands to the President to declare such resolutions to be inadmissible.
Mr President, it is possible to keep the interests of consumers very clearly in view and yet at the same time be fully open to the possibilities of new technical developments.
In a few years, as President Clinton said in a speech on 1 July 1997, billions of dollars will be exchanged in this way.
The European Union must assume its role as a great world economic power.
That will be a first defining step in the setting up of a competition law in this new field and in forming consumers' confidence in the new technologies.
Secondly, the Commission agrees with the principle stating that a free and open market economy must prevail in the sector, as provided for in the Treaty, and that, in principle, it must not thus be unduly regulated.
Thirdly, the Commission believes that the main objectives should be to increase confidence and consumer acceptance as regards electronic means of payment as well as to promote the single market and encourage electronic commerce in this area.
Fourthly, the Commission considers that, for the single market to work at full capacity and for electronic commerce and the information society to develop, then electronic money products and electronic payments must be solvent, easy to use, efficient and safe, as the Commission highlighted in its communication on a European initiative on electronic commerce.
Finally, the Commission believes that transparent and safe electronic money products would make the change to the single currency easier, particularly during the transition period.
Mr President, I would like to move on to make a few points about the follow-up planned for the communication and Parliament report.
On the other hand, to respond to a specific solution from the Amsterdam European Council, the Commission is also studying different possibilities in the field of fraud and the falsification of the means of payment, including, of course, electronic money.
In conclusion, as outlined in the report, the Commission intends to study specific initiatives in the field of the digital electronic sector whose objective would be to establish a Community framework in this area and thus do away with any obstacles within the European Union.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
This practice must not continue and must be responded to vigorously by the European Parliament offices in each Member State.
The rapporteur wishes me to commend this report to the House.
Red tape, when it is reduced and when those rules are simplified, will make things much clearer for businesses and much easier for business to operate within the single market.
A healthy single market is one which will create jobs and therefore I commend Mr Crowley's report to this House.
A sphere which would be very suitable for many successes in this area would certainly be that of agriculture.
I also believe that in our capacity as the European Parliament and as law makers in matter we must take ourselves in hand and more often keep to the basic principle that "less is more' .
I would thus like to propose in conclusion that this Parliament creates an instrument whereby we can check whether we can frame our legislative proposals in simpler and more comprehensible terms.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the activities of the Commission in the context of the SLIM programme started back in 1996 are extraordinarily welcome.
The report now before us represents a further step towards improvement and simplification of Community law, even if it is only a small step, considering the massive and urgent necessity to create simple regulations for the single market.
I wish this programme would lead to perceptible relief for the medium, small and very small companies, but also for the big ones, thus strengthening their ability to compete and bringing more jobs.
The legislature must not overstep a mark still recognizedd as reasonable with its frequently compulsorily burdensome effects on the citizens and companies.
Independent of this I find it hard to see what sense, for example, points 10 and 11 make in this resolution.
These points 10 and 11 really have very little to do in my opinion with the aims of the SLIM programme to improve and simplify the existing legal arrangements.
I thank the rapporteur, the Commission and in particular Commissioner Monti for his perseverance and I am pleased that the current Council Presidency accords the SLIM programme a particularly prominent significance.
When we see the tasks we set ourselves in Community legislation, for example, returning Tdocuments within 14 days, and when we know that over 85 % of these documents to not arrive back in time, what kind of legislation are dealing with, if we know that people cannot keep to it?
When we know that, on driving and resting times for instance, we have only now, at the beginning of 1998, the figures for 1993 and 1994, whilst four Member States actually manage quite simply not to submit any figures at all, and the Commission is just sitting here, saying: yes, we are going to simplify, deregulate and improve legislation, then I would like to see genuine results!
We are of course of the view that the general mandate proposed in point 21 of the report means a transfer of authority for the Commission, which we reject.
For a historically-aware person this system inevitably calls to mind the compulsory labour of the Middle Ages, but in those days they had the advantage that they just had to supply one tenth, whereas today the State usually requires considerably more than 10 % of the income of the working time.
In this sense the SLIM programme can really do some pioneering work on behalf of the individual European citizen, and I very much hope that the various parents and godparents of the SLIM programme continue their efforts to drive this SLIM programme forward and keep it alive.
Mr President, I wonder how long we are going to continue to speak in appreciative terms about the SLIM programme.
I hope the Commission takes this seriously and that it revises it, since this proposal would lead to double bureaucracy and double nomenclatures for companies, and go in precisely the opposite direction to what all of us here wanted.
Mr President, I would like to make use of this opportunity to once again thank Parliament on behalf of the Commission for the support it has shown this initiative and, in particular, for the speed with which it has presented its opinion, which will allow us to implement the new phase of the SLIM programme over the weeks to come.
The SLIM initiative has been working, not without difficulties, for almost two years.
As regards Parliament's request to participate, the Commission proposes that the leaders of the SLIM teams keep you informed of the advances being made in the work throughout the financial year and that the information available be made accessible at a contact point designated by you in Parliament.
I believe that this is a question of balance because in the legislative procedure the Commission is responsible, the Council is responsible, but the European Parliament is also responsible.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
It is becoming more and more evident that our economic reality at European Union level is already exceeding what the mere effectiveness of the Member States could be, since it is clear that with the Internal Market and especially with Monetary Union, it will be essential to have a political orientation for the economic and monetary policies of the Union, and this orientation will thus have to be based on statistics which are reliable.
This leads to a range of proposals which are set out in the explanatory statement.
Eleven different characteristics are noted including monthly production indicators, manufacturing orders information, monthly information on stocks, production broken down by activity, employment and hours worked and, from the Commission, a range of indicators referring to small and medium-sized undertakings and to some specific sectors, such as construction and services.
Under this second heading there was a series of observations on the part of some PPE colleagues in reference to the SLIM programme stating that we should not excessively overload businesses when giving them statistic questionnaires to fill in, and in the search for agreement we dropped this second aspect.
This is why a regulation on short-term statistics is not only a question of statisticians or technicians, but also takes on a significant political importance.
We therefore agree with the regulation's objective and with the approach proposed by the Commission.
We particularly approve of its desire to reconcile the burden on businesses, which must supply the data, with the increase in information needed to satisfy at the same time, for example, the European Monetary Institute and businesses themselves.
We certainly understand some amendments to the Commission's text, in particular as regards comparable statistics, not only at national level, but also at regional level, given that the short-term statistics will in future have to cover both the industrial and services sectors.
However, we must not exaggerate and guarantee that we cannot identify where the data collected at regional level comes from.
Nor must we exaggerate in another sense, like the amendments from the Greens, which, in terms of the variables, exceed what is necessary and useful.
We must guarantee the availability of comparable short-term indicators for the European Union, no more and no less.
The superfluous is always very necessary, but it is not the path to take in this field and the rapporteur, whom I congratulate, has not done this.
The introduction of the euro should also give us the opportunity to observe closely how the economic situation, in particular business activity, develops.
If you travel round companies, and I myself am a smith and spend a lot of time out at my customers' premises, and they often show me 20 page statistical declarations which they have to fill in - then you can understand the fury of these people against the statisticians and against this Europe that just loads red tape onto them for which they can see no immediate use.
The introduction of the single currency and the enlargement of the market in line with the current action plan render such objectives all the more important.
Over and above such movements, it is only with an accurate and up-to-date knowledge of all indicators at the regional level at a given moment in time that it will be possible to take action that is appropriate for such diverse circumstances, with differences sometimes proving greater within countries than between countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation you are considering today is trying to provide the Community with harmonized short-term statistics for all economic sectors.
National statistical practices differ in this field between the Member States, so that the information available is often incomplete or incomparable.
Through its Decision of 18 June 1992, the Council adopted a programme aimed at developing the statistics on services and particularly the trade sector.
In addition, the sources of the statistics need to be complete and reliable in order to make the most exact calculation possible within the quarterly accounts system.
Moreover, we are moving increasingly quickly towards the next phase of Monetary Union and the Treaty on European Union has created a new, extremely important user of short-term statistics, the future European Central Bank.
The draft regulation we are discussing on short-term statistics is trying to respond to all these demands.
However, the previous directives referred exclusively to the manufacturing industry and construction sectors, while the draft regulation rectifies this situation by including in its field of application all sectors, including services and trade.
As regards the greater harmonization of the results, the draft regulation sets out, for the first time, the level of breakdown of the results and the time limit for data-transfer.
The Commission believes that Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are acceptable.
However, we have problems in adopting Amendment No 8 since, in our opinion, it is redundant as a result of the adoption of Council Regulation No 322 on Community statistics, which defines the confidentiality standards applicable to all Community statistics: the so-called statistical confidentiality.
As regards the remaining amendments, Nos 9 to 26, the Commission believes that they deal strictly with technical precision and, given that we do not want an excessively long-winded text, these amendments might mean that the normal work of companies would suffer.
And I do not believe that there is any difficulty with the technical advances, so it should thus be possible to have access in real time to any type of short-term statistics which can be recorded within Eurostat.
Amendment No 8 did not include the regulation I mentioned, but surely it makes this amendment redundant; as regards the others, my position as rapporteur is that they should not be adopted.
In other words, there is a monetary policy which, in economic jargon we can call fine tuning - that is, almost immediate and precise adjustment - and which can obviously not work if the statistics are not extremely precise.
Thus, we will be forced to look for a new balance between not placing an excessive burden on businesses in terms of the data needed, and not forgetting that the European Central Bank will demand more precise information, and so we will have to come back to this matter.
The debate is closed.
