Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 June 1996.
I wanted to plan my time scales for next year and found that not a single date given in the European Parliament's diary for 1977 is correct as from 1 February.
The date 29 February is printed even though it is not a leap year.
The whole country and I am sure the whole of Europe would appreciate it if you would communicate to the Irish media and, in particular, the editor of the Irish Independent newspaper in Dublin, our deep sympathy and our continuing support for freedom of speech and guaranteeing the protection of democracy.
Urgent political matters The next item is the statement by the Commission on urgent political matters relating to the meeting of the G7 states in Lyons.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 27 to 29 June the summit of Heads of State and government of the seven industrialized countries was held in Lyons, under the French presidency, the President of the European Commission attending as a full member.
The G7 states now account for 46 % of world production.
This figure in itself indicates that the G7, as a group of states, has enormous economic power, but it also shows that this association of countries is only partly representative of the world economy.
Terrorism is a threat to the security of our society and our Member States.
And I am glad to say that a first meeting on these lines will be organized in Paris later this month.
As regards the contribution to be made by the European Union, I am confident that the decision taken in Florence regarding Europol will improve our capability for combatting terrorism at European level.
With your permission, then, I shall merely emphasize the subjects of particular importance to the Union: growth and employment, the defence of a genuinely multilateral trade system, the integration of the poorest countries into the international system, and our stated determination to bring about reconstruction in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
As far as growth and employment are concerned, the G7 expressed its support for our strategy, designed to reestablish sustained, non-inflationary growth to create abundant new jobs.
I have been able to confirm our forecast that growth in Europe would pick up again during this half-year.
With regard to trade and investment, I went to Lyons with a clear message to deliver: a message in favour of multilateralism.
These conclusions encouraged me in the context of the problems our businesses are facing as a result of the Helms-Burton Law.
The support for multilateralism expressed by the G7 was also reflected in strong recommendations encouraging the future work of the World Trade Organization.
The ministerial conference of the WTO, to be held in Singapore in December, was invited to give thought to relations between trade and competition policy, trade and investment, and intellectual property.
What is more, the G7 has recognized the willingness to deal with the question of the links between trade and fundamental, internationally recognized employment standards.
Mr President, President Chirac invited his colleagues within the G7 to think about the implementation of a new world partnership for development.
The G7 launched an appeal to all countries to improve access to their markets.
Secondly the G7 renewed its commitment to maintain the substantial flows of public development aid.
The official aid to development supplied by the Union and its Member States accounts for more than half the world total.
There is a need for a genuine partnership between the donors and the developing countries.
That partnership will involve greater responsibility on the part of the developing countries and greater coordination between donors.
Finally, the G7 noted important advances in relieving the indebtedness of the poorest countries.
Mr President, as my final point, I would like to mention a few decisions taken by the 7 together with Russia regarding the process of peace and reconstruction in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The Lyons summit gave a strong, clear signal that the primary responsibility for the implementation of the Peace Agreement rests with the various communities in that country, and that they must abide by the conclusions adopted at the Florence Conference.
The possibility of reaching a decision regarding the organization of another donor conference will depend on the results of the elections on 14 September.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lyons summit enabled me, as President of the Commission, to put across various messages that I believe to be essential in the interests of the Union: the broad lines of our strategy for sustained growth and job creation; our support for the multilateral trade system, in accordance with the international rules; the Union's contribution to the partnership with the developing countries, and especially the less developed countries, in their quest to achieve sustainable and socially balanced development; and, finally, the reassertion of the Union's role in the process of political, institutional and economic reconstruction in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
I hope that these points will illustrate the value of our participation in the G7 summit, and, of course, Mr President, I am at your disposal to answer any questions you may like to ask me. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission.
As you know, it is one of the main focuses of the Irish presidency.
Mr President, I do indeed believe that the entire international community, and more especially the European Union, must do everything in its power to counter this modern scourge of terrorism.
It is our duty to fight against all the forms of organized crime to which you have referred, and I believe that now that the Europol project has finally been unfrozen and set in motion, backed up by all the other provisions existing within international law, such as the agreement on extradition and various other measures, we will gradually be able to combine all our resources in the fight against terrorism and organized crime.
As far as organized crime is concerned, you will have read in the final communiqué - I will not cover all the details here - that some forty measures have been agreed upon and are now to be put into effect at the various levels by the various international bodies.
At European level, in accordance with the commitment given by the Irish President, whom I had the opportunity to meet yesterday in Dublin and who made this matter the primary objective of her joint action and of the priorities of her programme - a programme which she will be presenting here in the plenary in a few days' time - I believe that we shall succeed in combining our forces to combat international terrorism and organized crime.
But considerable efforts will be needed - good intentions are not enough - and we will need to translate into reality all the right-thinking declarations that are being made within the various international bodies.
Mr President, in Lyon you expressed appreciation - at least as reported in the newspapers - of the Italian government's document on economic and financial policy for 1997-1999.
Mr President, in answer to the honourable Member, although my grasp of Italian is not sufficient to enable me to follow the Italian press from day to day, I do even so know something about the debate that has taken place in the press and Italian public opinion in the last few days.
That was why, last Friday, I myself had already made a statement in Lyons when I was asked to give my views on this matter.
It will not be a straightforward yes or no, because the problems are more complex and cannot be answered with a simple affirmative or negative.
I would to know whether the Commission draws any conclusions from this comparison, from the institutional standpoint, and whether it might not be of value to set up a committee to follow up the G7 guidelines within the European Union.
Indeed, unless I am mistaken, I shall have the opportunity to do so in my capacity as President of the European Commission very shortly, from 4.00 p.m.
There are, therefore, interactions between the G7 and our activities within the European Union.
At European Union level, of course, we shall do everything we can to ensure that the general guidelines adopted by the G7 - which, I would remind you, are not decisions but guidelines - are gradually transposed into our activities within the European Union.
I consider, then, that the follow-up must be not sporadic but permanent, and I am glad to note that the guidelines adopted by the G7 correspond to our own guidelines and our own programme.
Mr President, in the run-up to the G7 summit the Council adopted a new action programme to support the Russian Federation.
This programme was indeed discussed in the Commission but it was not notified to Parliament.
I would very much like to know what the content of this action programme is, whether it is a new parallel programme to the TACIS programme, whether this programme played any part in the summit or whether it was merely intended as electoral support for the presidential elections currently being held in Russia.
Mr President, Mrs Hoff, the Commission and the European Union have always pursued an overall strategy with regard to the Russian Federation.
I believe it is essential that we should maintain constant relations with Russia, having regard to its geopolitical situation.
We are well aware that stability and security in our own countries depend on stability and security in Russia.
We must, therefore, commit ourselves to a continuous process of deepening our relations with the Russian Federation, not just in political terms but in economic and commercial terms too.
And I am very glad to find that a number of the guidelines which you have adopted as Members of Parliament, together with the Council, have been adopted by the G7 also.
As I said just now to Mr Pasty, you have always supported multilateralism, for example, against unilateralism in international trade.
I believe it is a success not for the G7 but for the European Union to find, within the general guidelines of the G7, an agreement which precisely corresponds to the views which you yourselves have adopted in this House.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I have two questions.
The first concerns the fight against terrorism.
My second question relates to the G7 meeting.
Mr President, as far as the struggle against terrorism is concerned, I should point out that a number of systems have to be set up.
President Chirac has suggested that the senior representatives of the working group against terrorism should be assisted by Interpol.
As far as your second question is concerned, I would remind you that this is precisely the purpose of the G7 meeting on nuclear security which was held two months ago in Moscow.
At that meeting, we agreed upon a programme and strategy intended to lead to the shutting-down of the two reactors at Chernobyl, which do not comply with the safety standards in force in our own countries.
We laid down a programme, step by step, with financing, and I can tell you that we, for our part, have just recently signed the second part of our share of the financing which, if I recall correctly, amounts to ECU 200 million.
Just among ourselves, Mr Santer: does the fact that your European employment strategy is being interpreted as concurrent with their views and deserving of support precisely by the senior advocates of deregulation and cuts in social services not give you much cause for doubt and anxiety?
I believe that is the only way that a conversation can be held between honest, politically mature and cultivated men.
As far as the environment is concerned, we decided within the World Trade Organization that the ministerial conference in Singapore, which is to be held in December, will have to deal both with the environment and with international social standards.
As I said just now, we want to see the multilateralism of trade taking account of both environmental and social concerns, not with a view to protectionism but simply in order to respect the obligations entered into by the various Member States of the European Union, and also by other states outside the European Union.
I served as Minister for Social Affairs and Minster of Labour long enough to know what employment is and how it can be created.
If you study all the speeches I have made since my investiture, here in this Parliament, you will know I have always said that the first priority is, specifically, to combat unemployment in the European Union.
We must all become much more concerned with the problems relating to the third pillar.
For my part, speaking on behalf of the Commission, I can say once again that we are fully agreed that at least seven of the various campaigns currently taking place under the third pillar could be communitized and, if possible, transferred to the first pillar.
Mr President, my question relates to the mad cow business, and also to our relations with the United States.
I can, however, assure the honourable Member of one thing: as I said at the last part-session in Strasbourg, as far as mad cow disease is concerned we are being guided solely by public health considerations, on the basis of scientific criteria.
But our first concern is to preserve fish stocks, and especially herring stocks.
President Santer, if the G7 summit has led to a definite result as regards Karadzic, I would like to know how it happened that - as we read in Le Monde today - Karadzic has had himself put up as a candidate for the next elections?
If you read the conclusions again, it is perfectly clear that all the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement - of the agreements signed in Paris, in other words - must be implemented in their entirety and, of course, to the extent that those provisions are not implemented, the sanctions will still remain available as means of coercion.
Be that as it may, however, a symbolic withdrawal, a temporary eclipse, is not sufficient to satisfy the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement .
I welcome the discussions which took place at the G7 and the expressions of concern about poverty in the Third World and ACP countries.
We can help them not only with aid but also by making it possible for them to trade their products in our markets.
These countries cannot survive by aid alone - they need a package of measures, structural adjustments, the assistance of the International Monetary Fund, the cancellation of debt but also access for these countries to our own markets, so that a genuine partnership, something which is so necessary, will be created step by step, leading these countries along the road to successful development.
Mr President, first I am very glad to find that the European Council in Florence has confirmed, or endorsed, the Commission's action, which has been given the name of the Confidence Pact for employment, because it is a joint approach.
Next, the social partners must be given every opportunity to participate in negotiations on job flexibility and job security, on the standardization of working hours, on education, apprenticeship, etc., while at the same time stimulating new initiatives such as small- and medium-sized enterprises, etc..
Mr Prodi, President-in-Office of the Council, who chaired the European Council meeting in Florence, will be reporting to you on this shortly.
A whole package of measures needs to be implemented to ensure that, gradually, unemployment can be reduced in the European Union.
The European Union numbers eighteen million unemployed and fifty million outcasts, living on the margins of our society, on the threshold of poverty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come here today with the greatest respect to illustrate the principal results of the Florence European Council which represented the conclusion of our Presidential term.
The various stages of Agenda 2000 - from the revision of the treaties to the move to the single currency, from the opening of the negotiations on the future enlargements to the consequent demands to adapt certain common policies and the financial base - all present enormous opportunities for development and deepening, but they also represent a tremendous danger: that our laborious achievements since the founding of the Community could be reversed and fragmented.
From this viewpoint a significant part of the presidency's work was devoted to preparing for the Intergovernmental Conference so that it could be formally called at the Turin European Council of 29 March, as agreed in Madrid last December.
This work is reflected in the report we have handed on to the Irish presidency.
The conference mandate to present a general outline of the revised draft to the Dublin European Council unequivocally confirms the determination to respect the one-year deadline set by the Turin European Council for the conclusion of the negotiations.
So the new Treaty should be approved within the first six months of 1997 as it represents a logical and chronological precondition to the development of the successive stages of Agenda 2000.
Some observers have rated the conclusions of the Florence European Council insufficient or even inadequate by comparison with the gravity of the problem, which calls for concrete direction and mobilization of efforts rather than declarations of intent or principle.
We do not agree with this interpretation and believe that some progress was made at Florence on a road which remains difficult, partly because of the inevitable diversity of situations across the Member States.
Nevertheless, there is growing consensus in Europe behind the idea of an integrated strategy for employment and growth, thanks partly to the tireless work of the Commission, which has my sincere thanks.
The passage in the European Council's conclusions on the organization of work and hours of work is an important step forward, which the social partners will be able to develop the search, in full autonomy, for new ways of organizing work which reconcile the creation of employment with the maintenance of the level of social protection compatible with our traditions and our civilization.
On the basis of the preliminary work, the Dublin European Council will be able to take the relevant decisions.
The Florence European Council has demonstrated that there is firm determination at the highest political level to continue down this road, refuting the illusion of brokering reduced financial rigour and artificial stimulation of economic growth.
As President of the European Council and Head of the Italian Government, I believe my country can be reasonably satisfied with the way it has conducted the presidency of the Union over these months.
We hope the efforts we have initiated to reverse the blocking of MEDA can be successfully pursued by the Irish presidency, so as to permit the entry into force of the regulation by 1 January 1997.
The meeting I had in Florence with the other Members of the European Council, including the Greek representative, served to confirm to the Turkish Prime Minister the importance the Union attaches to a constructive relationship with Ankara.
The end of the presidency closes a difficult and stimulating phase of our membership of the European Union.
The construction of Europe as a response to the great challenges of the next century and as a barrier against the resurgence of the demons of nationalism remains just as crucial today, after the end of the cold war, as it was for the founding fathers after the end of World War II.
Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must thank you for offering me the opportunity, on the occasion of this debate, to summarize the results of the European Council in Florence.
Employment was a focal point of this European Council, which endorsed our proposal for a Confidence Pact.
And we must not underestimate the importance of the repeated confirmation of 1 January 1999 as the date for the introduction of the single currency and the long-awaited unfreezing of Europol.
It is that same conviction which led us to set up a new multidisciplinary committee of leading scientists.
It is that same conviction which led us to propose an in-depth research programme into all aspects of BSE and its possible effects on humans.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as employment is concerned I am very pleased at the positive reaction by Heads of State and government to my proposal for a Confidence Pact.
It recognized the need to progress along the various lines set out in the recent communication by the Commission - mobilizing all the actors to enter into specific commitments at their own level of responsibility, creating a macroeconomic framework favourable to employment, exploiting the potential of the internal market to the maximum, expediting the reforms of the labour market, and to make better use of the Union's policies, especially the structural policies, in the interests of growth and employment.
This is essential in order to reestablish confidence, and to create the determination at all levels to combat unemployment.
The tripartite conference at which the social partners and governments met in Rome in mid-June did the same thing.
That is equally valid in the context of the public authorities and big institutions of the Union.
That is why the Commission will insist upon the implementation of the many schemes included in the Confidence Pact.
That is the spirit in which the Commission, too, will pursue its activities: for example, in favour of greater competitiveness, improving our access to the world market, helping with the reforms of the employment systems, and opening up new avenues to produce better access to employment through education and training.
Mr President, the Confidence Pact is made up of many different elements.
I reject, therefore, the idea advanced in some quarters that the Pact will stand or fall by the adoption, or otherwise, of the supplementary financing for the transeuropean networks.
A favourable decision would have given a powerful signal of political intent, for which we have waited too long.
However, the proposals for supplementary financing of the transeuropean networks submitted by the Commission - at the express request, incidentally, of the European Council, a point I must stress - comply with the need for budgetary discipline: no burdens on the budget over and above the agreements reached; no spending during the next few years, which are crucial for qualification for the single currency and participation in it.
And all that is equally true for the alternative suggestion I made in Florence.
I sincerely hope that, on this basis, with the determination of the Irish presidency, which has made this matter one of its priorities, and also with the support of the European Parliament - I know the importance you attach to the completion of the networks - a favourable decision may be reached before the end of the year.
But this is also an issue of the credibility of the previous decisions of the European Council itself.
I pay tribute to the ambition of the Irish presidency to present to the European Council in Dublin - next December in other words - the general framework for the new Treaty.
There is no longer any reason to restrict Parliament's role in legislative matters.
I know that the Commission and the European Parliament broadly share the same objectives with regard to decision procedures.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is my assessment of the European Council in Florence.
The steadfast and energetic support to the European Administration of Mostar has also allowed us to provide proper visibility for what is still the best constructed and most complex common action of the Union on Yugoslav territory and on the success - or failure - of which the credibility of Europe in the eyes of the local people largely depends.
The mid-term audit of the peace process, which took place in Florence on 13 and 14 June, was an opportunity remind all the parties to implement the agreements they had signed.
That meeting also confirmed the date of 14 September for elections throughout Bosnia.
The declaration approved by the Florence European Council bears witness to that.
The informal meeting of foreign ministers at Palermo on 20 March last - in the midst of the tension following the wave of terrorist attacks in Israel - led to the definition of a balanced approach by the Union, broadly taken up later by the Peace Summit of Sharm-al-Sheikh and also respected in the declaration of the Lyon G7, and in the various political missions of the troika in the Middle East.
The Union has also provided itself with the instruments of a strategy towards Russia that is clear in content and visible in objectives.
The action plan, approved on 13 May last, was designed to be a message of confidence in the capacity of the Russian leadership to carry forward the process it has begun, and at the same time give the Union the instruments that will contribute, together with those of the TACIS regulation also approved under the Italian presidency, to strengthening solid political and economic structures in that country.
In the dialogue with Mediterranean third countries we have sought to develop all the aspects of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership in a balanced way, starting with the political dimension.
The agreed action plan, its importance just affirmed by the European Council, targets gradual development of preventive diplomacy initiatives which should open the way for further consolidation of an area of stability and peace in the Mediterranean.
The presidency has also sought to reaffirm the role of the Union in the search for solutions to the Cyprus crisis through the nomination of its own ad hoc representative.
The dialogue with the United States was confirmed as essential and the prospects for further deepening were highlighted at the 12 June summit in Washington.
Transatlantic relations should include formal understandings with Canada as soon as possible.
The recent decisions of the NATO ministerial meeting in Berlin on the possibility of the WEU using the resources of the Alliance for its own peace-keeping operations make this dimension an objective to be pursued as a priority, and that includes the work of the Intergovernmental Conference, confirming complementarity with the vital transatlantic link in the context of a coherent plan for stability and security in Europe.
So I want to reiterate the hope that the Intergovernmental Conference can introduce innovations into the Treaty which will bring a dimension to common foreign and security policy comparable to what has taken shape over the years in external economic relations.
The trans-European networks and making the most of the single market represent the other strategic points in Union action to relaunch growth, competitiveness and employment.
In fact the agreement on the conciliation procedures for the trans-European networks in the transport and energy sectors establishes the premises for a real start on the identified projects and for the use of the existing credits and those that will become available, opening up more favourable prospects for involving private capital.
The results obtained also give the lie to the ever more recurrent criticism of the alleged cumbersomeness of the co-decision procedure and instead confirm how profitable legislative collaboration between Council and European Parliament can strengthen democracy in Union decision-making without damaging the timescale of the action to be undertaken.
Progress is also being made in this field: the agreements reached on the directives on the internal market in electricity and on interconnections put the European energy and telecommunications sectors in a position to operate in a clearer and more open framework.
The commitment, repeatedly affirmed by our presidency and fully supported by the Commission and by the majority of the other Member States, to more incisive action to support small and medium-sized enterprises has found expression in the adoption of a multi-annual action plan which will in particular improve the legislative, administrative and financial context for these firms and promote their access to innovation and research.
The European Council has given a mandate for defining and approving the action programme within the current year, and has specified the funding available.
The adoption of the common position on the 'Television without frontiers' directive, dealing with very sensitive cultural and industrial issues, will allow the Council to pursue these with the European Parliament under the co-decision procedure, respecting the legitimate sensitivity and expectations you have expressed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches members of the Italian Government have given and heard in this Parliament have provided useful guidance for our presidency.
Mr President, I want to thank Prime Minister Prodi, President Santer and the President-in-Office, Mr Dini, for their reports.
The Madrid Summit six months ago has become known as the summit of the single currency.
The reality was that BSE and the policy of non-cooperation in Europe which the British Government had instigated was hanging like a cloud over the Florence Summit.
Indeed, that cloud contained over 100 pieces of European Union legislation vetoed by the British Government.
People have spoken about the resolution of the policy of non-cooperation in Europe and resolution of the BSE crisis.
The Florence summit did not solve the BSE crisis.
Of course we welcome the framework agreement to look at the BSE crisis, but I want to remind the Council of the firm determination of this House and of my group for real action to protect the health and safety of European consumers as the paramount issue in the BSE crisis.
There was great expectation that finally, after all this time, there would be funding for the TENs coming out of the Florence Summit.
Not only was there no money for the TENs, but let me remind everybody in this House and the Council, only four days before the Florence Summit, after months of tortuous negotiation between Council and Parliament, after meetings that lasted not just through the day but through the night, there was agreement in conciliation on the TENs.
I want to say now to the Council that if it is going to take unilateral action of that sort, I hope it will come to this Parliament.
The people of the European Union blame us all for lack of action on employment.
They do not differentiate between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
They blame the European Union and my group does not want to be associated with this failure on employment.
It is the single most important issue for our people and we want our citizens to see, as we in this Parliament have done, that we care about them and we care about employment.
It is our opinion that in these difficult conditions the merit of the Italian presidency has been to project the European horizon towards the future.
But in this spirit of looking to the future I also rank the success of the informal council of Finance Ministers in Verona, where the aim of monetary union was confirmed and the relationship between the 'ins' and the 'pre-ins' was finally resolved satisfactorily.
In that same spirit of looking to the future I include the Bangkok Conference: at last and for the first time, a relationship has been established between the countries of Europe and the countries of the Pacific Rim, together with the possibility of cooperation which - as we must recognize - will be increasingly difficult in the future, because over and above cooperation, there is competition.
We also believe there should be harmonization, at European level, of fiscal policies, social security policies and employment policies, because that will increase levels of employment and help transform the welfare system.
Union decisions and intervention during this period on former Yugoslavia, the Middle East peace process and Euro-Asian relationships, and above all the political agreement reached on the EUROPOL Convention, will certainly be remembered as milestones in the common commitment, and Italy has represented it well.
But Mr President, it would be irresponsible to remain silent about the lack of success, let us call it that, at the Florence European Council.
For the first time we have seen a European Council affected by the 'adjournment syndrome' .
All have been adjourned to the extraordinary European Council in October.
Mr President, that destiny unites us all, because the external challenges and the paths we must take force us to assume a leading role on the international stage, in foreign and security policy, in economic policy and in the imagination of the people of our continent.
This is a necessary undertaking for the fifteen Member States.
Those countries which are hoping to join us must known, before negotiations begin, what kind of political structure they are going to join, what its advantages will be and what its constraints will be.
And it is also a failure of the Florence Council.
It is not just courting popularity to remind the House that 17.5 million unemployed deserve something better than declarations of intent.
The European Parliament, in its joint resolution following the Florence summit, stresses the responsibility of Europeans to concern themselves with a whole series of problems, in Europe and elsewhere.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Foreign Minister, I believe it is right, at the end of the Italian presidency, to express a calm and considered judgement on these months of work.
My judgement is broadly positive, because these months have been marked by a wealth of useful initiatives for the European Union, many of which were mentioned just now by Minister Dini.
I do believe, objectively, that the Italian presidency has worked well, because it has operated in complex conditions with two governments succeeding each other at a particularly delicate stage in the life of the European Union, and a rather serious crisis developing with the British government.
Just cut wages and pensions, and lo and behold, 3 per cent of public debt, as required by the treaties, is achieved.
Politically and economically united, and including all its Member States.
What remains is a stale aftertaste of zero options on the central questions of employment, health protection and democratic progress in the Union.
Instead the 15 heads of state and government repeated their neo-liberal credo that fighting inflation and adhering strictly to the Maastricht criteria would help resolve the employment problems in times of recession.
The Italian presidency has had the undoubted merit of making continuous dialogue with the European Parliament a high priority and fully respecting, with perhaps just one recent exception, the independence and the specific roles of the individual institutions of the Union and their members.
Having said that, the Group of the European Radical Alliance cannot but agree with the majority of Members who have spoken so far on the unsatisfactory outcome of the Florence Summit and, more generally, on the fact that the Italian presidency failed to keep some important appointments.
Certainly, in Florence the European Council resolved the political problem - certainly not the health and economic problems - of BSE, but at what price?
But the question remains whether all considerations of a political nature or differences about interpretation can be altogether excluded in the execution of this plan on the basis of scientific or veterinary pronouncements.
We are talking about a period of years.
We can feel some sympathy for the idea of the heads of government to see whether these projects could not be financed in some way other than by what is left over from the agriculture budget.
But, judging by the slowness in working these plans out and the difficult process of conciliation between Council and Parliament, you would scarcely think that these projects are closely connected with the serious problem of employment.
The detailed progress report of the Italian presidency amounts chiefly a list of the various viewpoints of the Member States.
On 5 December 1995, before the Houses of Parliament and then before a forum of European Heads of Government at the European institutions, the Dini government presented the Italian presidency's programme.
But the Florence Summit concluded with no consensus on what to do now and in the future, apart from adjourning to Dublin what had already been adjourned to Florence.
The silence is especially deafening on how to achieve political union without setting a serious timetable for common foreign and defence policy.
The question we are all waiting for an answer to is unemployment.
How can anyone believe that it is possible to stem the rising unemployment and poverty in the fifteen countries, destroying the welfare state - which was never achieved anyway because it is still a matter of handouts and not social security - and at the same time expect to enlarge Europe within a few years to countries with economic difficulties and worse unemployment than exists in the Fifteen?
For us in the Alleanza Nazionali, the sharks are those who talk about Europe but do nothing to build political union or, better still, try to reverse the few steps taken in the last few years.
We invite the troika to throw light on this scandal!
Heartfelt thanks to all those who have spoken in this short but intense debate.
I shall briefly comment on some fundamental points and then President Dini will be able to add to my remarks at the end of the debate.
But I also agree that part of that solution is the need to build institutional bases to make a European economic policy possible.
We cannot isolate unemployment from the other great decisions.
I believe that at the meetings ahead of us in Dublin halfway through the next term and at the end of it, we will see the seeds we have planted during our term bear fruit.
Mr President, I too would like to express my thanks to all those who have spoken in this debate, and especially those who have made very direct contributions to the European Commission's campaign to promote employment, and more particularly to the Confidence Pact which I have had the opportunity to outline here.
Up to a point, I understand the disappointment, or dissatisfaction, felt in some quarters regarding the serious problems we were called upon to discuss at the European Council in Florence, and I myself could have been the first to share that disappointment at the time.
But I ought explain why the European Council in Florence nevertheless provided a number of indications along the right lines, especially with regard to the Confidence Pact for employment.
In Strasbourg, during the last Parliamentary part-session, before Florence, I told you that my specific hope was that Florence would be for employment what Madrid was for the single currency.
And that is not the least of the achievements of the European Council in Florence, because it is necessary to examine what the Council adopted in terms of guidelines for employment.
It is a whole package of measures designed to promote employment as a whole through a variety of schemes.
If you reread the conclusions of the European Council, you will see that, in our Confidence Pact, the nucleus, the heart, was retained and confirmed in Florence.
Next, the European Council calls upon the Council of Ministers 'to adopt the new plan of action for small- and medium-sized enterprises before 1996' .
The Council then says: ' The Council approves the priority use of the available margins to support the structural policies, to support small- and medium-sized enterprises in partnership with the European Investment Bank, and to support local initiatives in the area of employment' .
The available margins mentioned just now by Mr Dini, amounting to 13, 500 million, will be used in our structural schemes, by the structural funds, with a view to creating jobs and also to supporting local initiatives.
It is in this respect the European Council in Florence marks an advance in our progress towards the reduction of unemployment, in order to create jobs, support growth and maintain our course towards economic and monetary union.
Perhaps there was insufficient time to consider them in greater depth, but I would emphasize the commitment entered into by the Irish presidency at the European Council in Florence to support these proposals.
You will have an opportunity to discuss the Irish presidency's programme, but I can tell you - because I was in Ireland yesterday - that the Irish presidency is very determined to conclude the discussions within the Council of Finance Ministers in order to ensure that the financing of the fourteen priority networks can be definitively concluded within a short time, under the Irish presidency.
The Council, then, provided very specific guidance for the future.
After all, we are all well aware that the existing problem of unemployment - and we regret the fact that it does exist, of course, since it is always our first priority - has not been solved by a decision taken by the European Council in Florence.
All I expect from each of you is that you will not abandon the fight but will support us in the efforts we have to make in dealings without citizens, and also in dealings with our governments.
The discussion is focusing on what has or has not progressed in the Union, but every summit registers different levels of progress.
It seems to me that we are operating in a context of quite serious crisis in the Union, which is preventing us making sufficiently rapid progress on matters relating to the Intergovernmental Conference and taking decisions on important issues which have been on the agenda not just for a month before Florence but for three or four years.
In fact we have been discussing employment for three or four years, and many attempts have been made to get something done.
I must say that in this Parliament it is always better when there is no agreement between the governments on such important questions.
And if Europe carries on like this it will also be more difficult for Italy to carry forward its own political project.
I hope that my British friends and their fellow citizens in general also understand it.
At the same time I should like to nip something else in the bud, a venticello which is going round Brussels too, which consists in saying that this solidarity in the face of the mad cow crisis, payments to the producers who have suffered loss, will come out of the common organizations of the market and in particular those of the countries of the south.
I think that is a risk we must avoid and I am glad Mr Santer is here because I am sure he will use his authority to ensure that the proposals of the Commissioner for agriculture are impartial, which is what comprehensive solidarity and cohesion require.
The positive conclusion is that we cannot go on in a Europe of Fifteen with the possibility of blockades, of permanent vetoes, of vetoes based on the 'Luxembourg compromise' .
Thinking of that situation with 15, we might imagine what might happen in a Europe of 20 or 25.
And I therefore also call the presidency's attention to the resolutions of the European Parliament, which I think give a balanced solution on this subject.
But the Italian presidency, which I was saying earlier had shown such finezza , did not do so on another subject.
I think Mr Prodi made a reference in ending his speech to De Gasperi and to Spinelli.
But in the last resort we are still in time to remedy it.
But the final communiqué also approves enlargement provided that the Intergovernmental Conference produces positive results.
But since our vision should be European and not just national, we give the Italian presidency credit for some significant results: EUROPOL, the fight against racism and xenophobia and, above all, ending the mad cow crisis, on which - if I may say so - the work of this Parliament had undoubted and significant influence.
Ireland will not have to concern itself with mad cows - also because Irish meat is at least as good as Italian - so it will have greater resources to commit to the construction of the common European home.
Perhaps there comes a time to say better a smaller but more European Europe, a more supranational Europe, than a large and unwieldy Europe which fails to deal with any of the great internal and international problems it must confront.
If we look at this European integration, this present road to monetary union rationally, we must recognize that we have got here without democracy and that today this economic integration is increasingly linked with a crisis of the fabric of society itself in many European countries and in Europe as a whole.
When President Prodi seems to confirm the gravity of this crisis, saying that unemployment puts European civilization at risk, he is making an important and telling statement.
In this Parliament we are not satisfied with the outcome of the Florence European Council and with the term that has just ended in general.
It remains our hope that the Italian government, free from the tinsel and the nightmare of the presidency, will now take on a driving role, finally involving public opinion as well.
Lastly, a question: can President Prodi today confirm the solemn commitment, taken in her time by Minister Susanna Agnelli, that Italy will make its own approval of the IGC's conclusions subject to prior approval by the European Parliament.
President Prodi, I would like a clear answer on this point.
Mr President, while acknowledging the initiatives undertaken by the Italian presidency, I am bound to say that I do not feel very optimistic.
Europe does, however, hold some strong cards, and it can restore confidence in those who have lost it.
As far as employment is concerned, much remains to be done, and I believe there are at least three areas in which greater efforts must be made.
Mr President, the Council report and Commission statement on the Florence meeting and on the subject of employment and growth are simply not concrete enough.
So the question arises of the necessary initiatives in this respect, for so long as the Member States are not willing or able to create economic framework conditions that encourage people to form companies and create the necessary conditions to enable existing undertakings to become more competitive, all the measures taken at European level are unlikely to create employment and at most will shift the employment figures within the EU.
Mr President, at this stage in the debate I am a little concerned that the Italian presidency might think we are criticizing it unfairly.
The Italian presidency has made an enormous effort under very difficult conditions.
But I would say that it was the Italian presidency's turn in this case to 'get the dirty end of the stick' .
It was faced with a mad government creating a crisis, letting an epidemic develop, admitting that that epidemic might affect humans with the result that we other 14 States of the European Community got the blame.
And in a very similar field, we must also welcome the creation of the observatory on racism, which will be an important factor in fighting racism.
But in other things unfortunately the European Council of Florence is going to be associated with failures: on progress with the Intergovernmental Conference; on progress with the Delors White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment; on the confidence pact of Mr President Santer, who has also made a great effort which must be recognized here; on the trans-European transport networks - the modification of a conciliation agreement which had been reached; on the multiannual programmes for the development of the SMES; on the multiannual programmes for aid to research; on the financial perspectives and on the MEDA programme.
Finally, Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I should like to thank the Italian presidency for the great work it has done in a much reduced period of time and in the face of enormous difficulties.
But I would say that this Parliament unanimously regards the European Council of Florence not as a step forward but as a step backward or at least a phase of paralysis which shows there is a crisis in the Union.
And if we do not emerge from this crisis then the European Union, will not actually make any progress in the political sphere.
Mr President, I want briefly to endorse a few of the comments made by the previous speaker, namely in relation to his assessment of the Italian presidency of the Council.
We have in the past certainly made a few critical comments on it in this House.
But now that we are summing it up after six months and suddenly find that some important directives with which we had great difficulties in the past were adopted during the Italian presidency of the Council or at least that a common position was reached, we have to revise some of our criticism and admit that the Dini and Prodi government did make good preparations and proved able to carry them through in a range of areas.
There are some details, for instance in relation to Article 129(c)(1) and some other areas, such as Article 103(5), where we still differ.
But at the same time we in the European Parliament should not give the impression that this would also resolve the problem of 20 million unemployed people.
Nor should we let it be said that we are to blame for the fact that unemployment has risen so much so long as the powers in this area lie with the Member States.
Mr President, first I should like to express my thanks and appreciation to the Presidentin-Office of the Italian presidency at a most difficult time, in fact at a time of European Union institutional crisis.
I regret that the European Council, while giving political support to President Santer's proposed confidence pact for employment, failed to agree on the more important questions of funding the measures proposed by the Commission President, thereby ignoring the 18 million European citizens who had been led to place their hopes and trust in the outcome of the Florence Summit.
I now believe that the Irish presidency must give priority to persuading Member States to agree on a funding package for the trans-European networks to ensure that they are put in place as quickly as possible.
It is important to state that the establishment of a European budget for the construction of these networks must not be at the expense either of the structural funds or of the common agricultural policy.
The structural funds have proven to be a successful vehicle for generating economic growth in the less well-off regions of the Union.
The need to help farmers affected by the BSE crisis has once again demonstrated the importance of maintaining the CAP budget at a level which can fund the ongoing farm programmes while at the same time responding to emergency situations such as the beef crisis and the recovery of consumer confidence in healthy beef and opening up all the internal European markets for disease-free beef from other European Union Member States.
The Irish presidency must guard against short-term solutions to the problem of funding the trans-European networks which involve diverting money from either the CAP or the structural funds, both of which must be maintained at their present level.
It will also be remembered for the acceptance of Europol as a major weapon in our determination to cooperate to fight organized crime and we all welcome the European Extradition Convention.
But the disappointment of Florence does not end there, because very little has been said on the problem of unemployment, and the paucity of results from the Intergovernmental Conference is clear just from reading the conclusions published in the press.
Florence confirmed 1 January 1999 as the date for economic and monetary union, as laid down in the Treaty and already confirmed in Madrid.
The sentence stating that there will be no assessment of the conditions for moving to the third phase at the end of this year is puzzling, suggesting the European Council thinks it has the right to change a Treaty obligation which, in the circumstances, involves the European Parliament.
I realize that such an assessment may cause embarrassment to many Member States, but that does not strike me as any reason to prevent the European Parliament carrying out its own duties on an issue like economic and monetary union, where it has already done a bit more than make an appearance.
Mr President, if I had to describe the summit which took place in my beloved Florence in a few words, I would have to say Florence was two steps backwards and certainly not a good summit, President Santer.
While there is no panacea or magic wand to solve the employment problem, it is equally true that the Florence Summit missed a great opportunity to bring Europe closer to the citizens.
As we know the Association Agreement between Slovenia and the EU was signed on 10 June, having been through many stages.
Slovenia can now start to catch up politically with the other Central and Eastern European countries in relation to the EU.
The Florence Summit was a disappointment for European citizens expecting firm decisions on reducing unemployment.
This growing frustration will become a real obstacle to building a common Europe and reducing unemployment.
Mr President, the Romans said concordia parvæ res crescunt , union is strength.
Naturally we are all disappointed about the results, and I shall be coming back to that shortly, but it is surprising that with a party represented in eleven of the fifteen governments, in which seven of the fifteen present governments are socialist, that she is so disappointed in this Parliament.
We must admit that at Union level relatively little can be done, at national level rather more and at local level perhaps more still.
It is even dangerous to think that the Union can bear the load, that the Union, which is already so divided, as has just been said, can bear the whole burden of those 18 million unemployed.
I am also very glad that the Commission is going about that in various ways, above all by bringing the social partners together in such a positive way.
We know that in the present European budget there is not enough money to finance such an ambitious programme as the TENs.
We have suggested a road tax or something similar, but we cannot get it from the present Category 3.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while the Florence summit confirmed that the intergovernmental conference will end by mid-1997, it nevertheless revealed that the preparatory work for that conference was far from well advanced and would have to be speeded up in order to reflect the determination of the Member States to adopt a genuinely strong policy to ensure better preparation of the next summit in Dublin.
I would like to stress two of them.
First, the matter of implementation of the MEDA programme.
As our President, Jacques Chirac, recalled, France was an originator of a united, stable Mediterranean.
Rarely have we followed a European Council meeting with such interest as we did the Florence Summit.
It is no less important to act now to gain the benefits identified in the Cecchini and Delors reports of creating jobs through the dynamics of European economic integration.
President Santer described the challenge of unemployment as a question of the credibility of the Council itself.
All right, so you devote four pages out of eleven in your conclusions to the problem of employment.
I told you, Mr Santer, in this very House, and you smiled, I told you that you would only solve tax problems first by imposing a ceiling on obligatory levies, not more than 40 % of GDP; and secondly by following your logic through to the end - because you are a European, which I am not, I am no Federalist - and allowing a free choice of which method of taxation bears the lowest burden.
Article 104c of the Maastricht Treaty is a Greek tragedy.
You told us that the single currency would provide a solution to the problems of competitive devaluation.
Yes, but Italy and Spain will not be participating, and those are the countries responsible for competitive devaluations.
You told us that we would be a power, but in order to be a power you have to have the strength to resist, for example to resist the Helms-Burton Law which is strangling Cuba or to resist the embargo which is strangling Iraq, but resistance is not one of your qualities.
Back in 1990, in this very House, I denounced contamination of feeds.
The criminal responsibility of the De Mulder brothers, in Doncaster, in Yorkshire, who manufactured the contaminated feeds.
The political responsibility of you yourselves, as the Commission.
In this context, as an Austrian social democrat I absolutely cannot endorse some of the euphemistic words we have heard here about the Florence summit.
In that respect the rapid and solidary decision taken by the summit, namely to lend a hand to the farmers harmed by BSE by giving an extra ECU 200 m, was right and welcome.
On the other hand this Florence summit was a pitiful failure in terms of employment policy and combatting unemployment in the EU.
A few years ago this European Union and its governments solemnly set themselves the aim of halving unemployment by the end of this decade.
Today these same governments are not even able to spend a fraction of the money already set aside in the European agricultural budget on the areas of trans-European networks, small and medium-sized undertakings and research in order to create more jobs and prefer to pass on this unpleasant ball to their own finance ministers.
I call on the Member States to make up for their failure to act by the time the 1997 budget is adopted and thereby to give our citizens a right and important sign that we are on the way to an employment union.
Mr President, it is impossible to be original at this time.
The European Council of Florence was a shining example for us Spaniards since the stimulus given to the subject of extradition is a basic factor in eradicating ETA terrorism.
But there is much work to be done.
There is also need of uniformity, more active Community cooperation, in both the judicial and the political fields until the Union reaches maturity.
We also echo the conclusions of the European Council of Florence with regard to the unsuitability of the third pillar instruments, in particular the common position and the agreements.
Because as Octavio Paz says in La llama doble , ' Knowing full well that we are stating a paradox, we may say that liberty is a dimension of necessity' .
Security, Mr President is no doubt the other essential dimension of necessity.
I wish to pay tribute to the Italian presidency.
However, the success of last week's summit in Florence will be judged by many of our constituents by what it achieved for them.
I welcome the compromise agreement on the Europol convention which, together with the extradition convention, I hope will be implemented as quickly as possible by all Member States.
Organized crime is emerging as one of the major problems in many countries.
This is a new low and I am sure I speak for all Members in condemning this atrocity.
The journalist's murder was followed yesterday by the intimidation of a Dublin Member of Parliament who had also condemned the drug barons.
Consumer rights may have been enshrined in the Treaties for 39 years, but have also been disregarded for 39 years.
Overall, the consumers are acquiring more rights, which is something we must also tell the citizens as consumers.
But if that optimism is too far removed from what we all see and what newspaper readers also see, then there is a credibility gap which in my view is already much too big in Europe.
Every analysis emphasizes the importance of the confidence which employers must have in investors in the European economy.
I am also sorry because the Summit Council reversed the list of priorities of the major trans-European transport network projects, which the Council itself approved and formally ratified in December 1994, by transferring project No 8 on the Essen list.
This unilateral change in the priority of the major projects, without the European Parliament's agreement, goes against the letter and spirit of the orders of Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty, which explicitly require a joint decision by the Council and Parliament before the priority of major projects can be changed.
Finally, a few words about the MEDA Regulation.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I believe it is right to stress the fact that the future of the European project is in deep crisis, irrespective of the events that affect individual Presidencies.
And as Italy is still in the European troika, I think we can make an important contribution to finding the answer to this question.
Institutional issues are at the centre of this question so I want to touch very briefly on the point Mr Sarlis mentioned just now.
Mr President, I believe the identity of Europe is measured by its social security model but also by its capacity to establish the best possible balance between freedom and security in order to achieve the full implications of coexistence under a state of law.
Viewed from this angle, the importance of the results achieved under the Italian presidency in justice and home affairs is heavily underscored, especially when account is taken of the difficulty of dealing with this famous and rather impervious third pillar.
And what has been done lays the foundations for a breakthrough on all that remains to be done in this sector at the Intergovernmental Conference, having the courage to regard certain issues as Community issues: immigration and the right of asylum, and above all a legal basis to cover fraud.
In fact, the proposals from President Santer were a mere shadow of what the Commission had originally envisaged because the Commission knew what was achievable.
I am sure the Commission knows but does the Council?
I am particularly concerned about the lack of commitment shown with regard to the trans-European networks and particularly with regard to funding of the taskforces for research and development into many key strategic industrial areas that will affect the competitivity, the success and prosperity of the European Union into the next century.
The outcome of the Florence Summit does little to give confidence to business and workers across the European Union and particularly in a constituency such as mine in the northwest of England which is so dependent on these two industries for its success and prosperity.
Mr President, this Parliament has always been concerned about the democratic deficit in the Community's decision-making process and the defence of proper rights of representation.
Mr President, I would like to greet the new Italian Prime Minister, Romano Prodi, and welcome the political change in his country and the expectations it raises of a strengthening of his government's commitment to democratic political construction of Europe.
I regret, however, that the Italian presidency, in the light of the existing crisis of great severity, was unable to give the necessary political boost to initiate a genuine political negotiation in the IGC.
We would like to see that negotiation not only limited to the lowest common denominator but at least attacking head on, with the Union's new powers and means, real problems such as employment and deepening political and social union just as we are preparing the way for the single currency.
Unless the European Union acquires the capacity to regulate economic and social affairs so as to overcome the ultra-liberalism of the single market, it will see its own democratic legitimacy compromised and the popular support on which it depends alienated.
I want to make it clear here and now that the Florence Council was capable of producing various positive decisions such as those already mentioned in respect of the third pillar.
I would also like to point out, as a Portuguese Member of this parliament, the receptiveness of the Council in relation to the agreement between the Portuguese and Spanish governments on the new projects for transfrontier links, improving the existing opportunities for these two countries in the framework of transEuropean networks.
I should also like to insist on the idea that the measures to be adopted by the Commission in the framework of the confidence pact for promoting employment are not incompatible with and should not jeopardise the policy of economic and social cohesion, which is a Community acquis .
Mr President, I am rapporteur for the trans-European transport networks and I would like to offer my thanks and respect to the Italian presidency in this connection for the efforts it made in the conciliation procedure.
It also covers the fourteen Essen projects, which we included in a list.
So we were all the more surprised to read in the Florence conclusions that the European Council notes that two Member States want to make changes to an important project on this list.
That is why I now ask you, given that the conclusions are somewhat unclear - and here I would ask for a very precise answer if possible, Mr President-in-Office - how does the Council propose to deal with this proposal from the Florence summit, in the framework of co-decision with Parliament and on the basis that we have to vote on the results of this conciliation in Strasbourg in July?
Madam President, honourable Members have expressed contrasting opinions about what the Commission and the presidency have been able to achieve in the first six months of this year.
Your opinions and assessments will be a stimulus to the work of the Commission and the Council in the next six months and in the future.
But European Council decisions require the consent of the governments of the Member States.
The European Council just took note of a request for an amendment to that agreement presented by Spain and Portugal.
Any change would in any case naturally require another codecision with the European Parliament.
Furthermore this pledge was confirmed by the 1989 referendum, under which national decisions are subordinated to supranational decisions.
Finally, I want to thank honourable Members for having recognized and emphasized, amongst other things, the progress made on former Yugoslavia, EUROPOL, energy and the Intergovernmental Conference, as well as the solution to the political dispute with the United Kingdom affecting European Union business and linked to the BSE crisis.
Madam President, Finland, Sweden and Austria were given the right to maintain certain more stringent environmental standards during a four-year period.
Madam Commissioner, now is the time to live up to your promises and reassure your colleagues that a high standard of environmental protection is important for the entire Union and that a compromise is not adequate for this purpose.
By the beginning of April next year the Commission and the Council will give a detailed report on the progress of this matter.
Madam President, the first time I spoke in this Parliament at the beginning of January 1995 I put a question to the Commissioner.
So we have put this oral question out of our concern for our common environment, for the health of the people of the European Union, and also on behalf of the citizens, in their interest, because we have to let them know that their interests take precedence over economic interests, which are certainly only short term and short-lived, and that in the end the sustained development of our European Union also demands the appropriate environmental legislation.
Various proposals that have already been put before Parliament, such as the directives on fuel qualities and on motor vehicle emissions, could in fact already contain elements of these higher environmental standards.
And I would also have expected, during the review of the fifth framework programme, mention to be made of the three new Member States, for reviews should take account of new circumstances and the enlargement of the Union to include such major and in environmental terms very sensitive areas is certainly a new factor to be taken into account.
We will be holding elections on 13 October and they will be another measure of whether there is as much efficiency at European level as imagined.
As a representative of the business world in the European Parliament I lay the utmost value on ensuring that the higher environmental standards apply throughout the European Community.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, the citizens of the European Union Member States expect firm evidence that the European Union really is working in the interest of their safety and their future.
We have trusted the Commission to fulfil its promises to develop Community legislation during the four-year transitional period so that it is in harmony with the more stringent environmental standards of the new Member States.
Madam President, in the negotiations leading to EU membership, Sweden, Austria and Finland were given a four-year transitional period for parts of their environmental legislation.
In Sweden this agreement with the EU was publicly proclaimed as a guarantee that Sweden would not have to lower its environmental standards.
For this reason I would like to present four pertinent questions to Commissioner Bjerregaard. 1.This question is about the legislation on chemicals.
Madam President, the Commission's work in connection with the review clause contained in the Act of Accession for Austria, Finland and Sweden is progressing well, despite some of the comments which have been made here this evening.
At the same time, I must of course also say that the result depends not only on the efforts made by the Commission, but also on those which the Member States are willing to make, especially the new ones.
In order to step up the dialogue between the new Member States and the Commission on this issue, I convened an initial coordination meeting at the highest level on 20 June 1996, involving the Commission and representatives of Austria, Finland and Sweden.
Firstly, there is Directive 67/548 on dangerous substances.
As regards the differing classification and labelling requirements for some 100 substances where Austria and Sweden have a different system for one reason or another, the Commission is seeking to ensure that all the substances are included on the agenda for the meetings of experts at the European chemicals office in Ispra.
If the new Member States can supply the necessary scientific data in time, the prospects are good for concluding the process before the end of 1998.
Both the Commission and Sweden will play an active role in this process, to ensure that an acceptable outcome is achieved before the expiry of the transitional period.
Further discussions will take place on the basis of this study and Austria's proposals for measures in case of accidents.
Then there is Directive 88/379 on dangerous preparations.
With regard to preparations which are not dangerous, it is proposed to solve the problems in the planned review of Directive 88/739.
The adoption of a Commission proposal for a new European Parliament and Council directive is scheduled for July 1996.
The classification, packaging and labelling of pesticides will be included in the scope of the revised directive on dangerous preparations.
It is hoped that the proposal for a new European Parliament and Council directive will be adopted by the Commission in July 1996.
A draft proposal covering the classification, packaging and labelling of plant protection products, where Austria and Finland have different requirements, will be produced alongside the Commission's proposal for the amendment of Directive 78/631 on pesticides.
There is also Directive 76/769 on limiting the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
The new Member States have stricter legislation, as has been emphasized here today, on the marketing and use of PCPs, cadmium, organic tin compounds and arsenic.
The substances in question will therefore be included in the third list of priorities under Council Regulation No 793/93 on the assessment and control of risks associated with existing substances, provided that the precise chemical identity of these substances is established and the producers and importers of the substances are known.
The last directive to which I shall refer is Directive 76/116 on fertilizers.
On the basis of a risk assessment and an economic study of the cadmium content of fertilizers, which represents a problem for all the new Member States, it will be possible to bring a proposal before the committee.
I am sorry to have spoken at some length, Madam President, but I felt it my duty to give Parliament a thorough account of the situation.
According to the Commissioner a proposal for the amendment of the classification, packing and marking of pesticides should already have been put forward in July 1996.
In this context it is also important to make sure that Member States, both old and new, can maintain and create new, more stringent regulations on environmental issues, whenever this is required for environmental reasons.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues; during membership negotiations Sweden was granted transitional regulations for a period of four years for sections of the environmental legislation.
The responsibility for organizing and structuring this work in fact lies with the Commission.
Madam President, what the Commissioner said was most interesting.
That is a relevant question for those who want to know whether Austria, Finland or Sweden can retain their national provisions in the field of environmental protection and the working environment.
I would like you to tell me how things are to go on if no agreement can be reached?
Those are relevant questions, which have remained unanswered.
If the Commission wanted to show that it really is serious about tightening environmental standards to meet the level of the new Member States, it should therefore have proposed a benzene content in petrol of one percent maximum.
Madam President, having heard the Commissioner's reply, we should seriously ask ourselves what will happen at the beginning of 1999 if this re-assessment fails.
If we want to prevent a succession of court decisions weakening environmental protection in the new Member States, the relation between free movement of goods and environmental protection should be revised at the intergovernmental conference, as has been pointed out today.
The undertaking given by Commissioner Bjerregaard that no new Member State should have to lower their standard involves considerable measures.
I think that everyone here in the House understands that no country was given guarantees in advance.
The prospect was held out to all the countries that we would seek to achieve as high a level as possible, and I have said that this is also my political aim and what I am working for.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Madam President, the Molitor Group did not produce a good report.
It is a shame that the Molitor Group did not accept these challenges and it is a shame that we are debating Molitor so late this evening when the debate and much of the activity have moved on to bigger and better things.
Third point: the report contains no objective analysis of the effects of Community and national law on competitiveness and employment.
Fourth point: the Molitor Group has looked at Community legislative proposals purely from economic viewpoints.
Fifth point: the Molitor Group did not pay enough attention to the link between legislative simplification at Community level and legislative simplification at Member-State level.
The report is a reaction to the Molitor Group's proposal.
But this does not always mean deregulation.
Regarding for example the health, safety and labour law I maintain that since there is a deregulation in the goods and service market, it may be, and I believe it to be the case, that we need further regulation regarding health and safety in the working environment as well as regarding labour law.
Regarding health, safety and labour law we have a very limited legislation at Community level, but a very extensive legislation in individual countries.
Although, as I said earlier, we do not have very extensive legislation at Community level, a major part of the legislation regarding health and safety has not been implemented in Member States.
According to the Molitor Group Article 100a is sufficient.
Article 118a on the other hand protects the individual.
Madam President, our committee supports the idea of simplifying and clarifying European legislation but we want to stress that there can be no question of lowering environmental, public health or consumer protection standards in Europe.
We deplore the lack of a firm statement in favour of environmental protection in the Molitor Group.
We remind the Commission that Parliament must consent to any repeal of legislation and that any repealed laws must be replaced.
First, current environmental standards and existing levels of consumer protection must not be lowered.
Second, European Union legislation must be clear, coherent and transparent.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the Molitor report are disappointing.
The report by the working group asserts that there is a correlation between legislative simplification and increased growth and job creation.
The EPP Group agrees with the report in all points and we do not doubt that tomorrow it will receive the Assembly's majority support.
So, Madam President, perhaps I may focus on the actual basis of the report, on the mandate given by the Commission to the group of experts, charging them, in the actual words of the mandate, to 'assess the impact of Community and national legislation on employment and competitiveness with a view to finding ways of reducing and simplifying such legislation' .
We are speaking of rules, Madam President, that is of legislative provisions.
But rules or provisions are enforceable and derive their capacity for social integration from the fact that they are the law.
And there is something in this mandate which is deeply repellant to anyone who knows the law, because it cannot be measured, be examined, in terms of employment and competitiveness, important as they both are.
But the law is not there to serve employment and competition or even the values which represent the cement of our civilization, since the law is the very incarnation of those values of society.
To conclude, Madam President, I shall take the liberty, in tribute to the rapporteur, of quoting the sentence with which Koschaker begins his seminal treatise on Roman Law, and I shall quote it in Spanish as my German is very poor.
We are waiting hopefully for the results of the Commission's SLIM project so that, if they are positive, SLIM can also be applied to more projects.
But the Commission ought to realize that not everyone, certainly in the agriculture sector, has problem-free access to the CELEX network.
The Commission has sent me an answer but we see very little result.
My group will therefore vote against some passages but support the report as a whole.
Madam President, the report of the Molitor Group is on first impression a pessimistic one.
If the aim is to make Community law which is in force accessible to the citizens by means of legislative and administrative simplification it is hard to see how that object can be achieved without going exhaustively into the question of what bearing the simplification of legislation on a Community scale has on the simplification of legislation in the Member States.
On the one hand there are specific fields which the Molitor Group did not deal with and which affect citizens, such as legislation on the environment.
Thus proposals ostensibly devised to simplify legislation lead only to deregulation in social matters and to reducing workers' protection at European level without beginning to analyse the repercussions of Community legislation and of national laws on competitiveness and employment.
The points drawn up by the rapporteur are very pertinent and so are her recommendations.
But when one reads the unanimous criticism that all the committees asked for their opinion have directed at the result of the Molitor Group's activities one has to ask oneself whether this result is not also attributable to the general nature of their mandate.
Madam President, simplification can be a very complicated business.
I would like to add two comments.
It is true that there is a need for consultation in the legislative process, but one cannot help wondering whether the Commission, which does a lot of consulting, does not perhaps tend, if I may say so, to internalize the debate, leaving very little material over for the parliamentary debate.
Madam President, my group is in favour of simplifying European legislation.
But we regard the Molitor report only as a start.
Like the Florence Council we are expecting that this year the Commission will send the Council and, let me stress, also to Parliament, the first results of the SLIM project, that is, the Simple Legislation for the Internal Market.
And both must check how and whether this legislation is observed.
So I should like to see a joint action programme by the Commission and the Member States to achieve an improvement in the quality of transposition at national level.
Simplifying the legislative and administrative procedures to which businesses are subject is an important part of the general strategy for growth, competitiveness and employment.
The Commission felt that it was necessary to obtain the opinion of a group of independent experts in this area.
I put a very definite and direct question to the Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The date of the debate, in early July 1996, could not be more propitious.
In Trieste, the EU and Mediterranean countries' energy ministers have just created a forum for renewable energy sources.
Commissioner, it must therefore be decided what the Union should do and what the Member States should do.
Madam President, I should first like to congratulate Mr Mombaur.
It has shown that in its resolutions but more practically it has shown it in enhancing the budget for those energies.
If we look at the current situation then, it is disappointing: nowhere near 15 %, more like 5 %.
We could be using the structural funds to have regional projects for renewable energy.
We could be using PHARE and TACIS.
The Council of Ministers has shown time after time an attitude of obstructiveness and the saga of THERMIE II is testimony to the way in which it has not seized the opportunity to enhance renewable power.
It is essential that in the IGC discussions there are movements towards giving us a Treaty competence for renewable energy alongside that which we have, somewhat anachronistically, for nuclear power through the Euratom Treaty.
It matters because of the potential in our own European Union and in the whole of central and eastern Europe.
We say that our No 1 priority is the creation of jobs.
We should follow up progress on that action plan at least every six months.
The European Union has a budget it could use.
The Commission could coordinate very much better than it does the actions of all the different directorates-general involved with renewable energy.
Five different types of renewable energy have come together in one export council and that is an excellent step forward.
It was necessary to hit upon a procedure for that, because the Commission, which had sponsored the Madrid Conference with great magnanimity and understanding, had to find a way of sending officially to Parliament for consideration a document which was not its own.
I should like to add two things.
Not only that, but that it may, as was said in the two Athens conferences, send a message and give most effective help to the countries around us, and I am referring in particular to the countries to the south and east of the Mediterranean.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the Mombaur report reflects the need for the European Union to step up and boost its environment and energy policy worldwide, something becoming more and more urgent given the very serious problems jeopardising the planet's climate and equilibrium.
That is why we must make swift progress towards using renewable energy forms which, alongside a serious energy saving policy and an increase in energyrelated efficiency, is the main way of overcoming these problems.
First it was THERMIE as long ago as 1994 and now we can add SAVE II.
It is also striking that in particular the big Member States with a major interest in the nuclear energy sector such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom are blocking SAVE II in the Council.
Instead of new technologies they are exporting obsolescent nuclear technology they have no more use for in their own countries to Central and Eastern Europe such as the Ukraine.
Countries in Western Europe, including the Netherlands, have an enormous over-capacity in electricity.
The power-stations which supply this energy are proportionally much cleaner than power-stations in countries such as the Ukraine.
It is a really practical way for moving forward on renewable energies.
They are the oldest of all energy sources but nowadays modern technology permits us to use them efficiently and enables a new potential to be realized.
It is particularly important that the more than 50 % of the world's population which is deprived of infrastructure, electricity and energy for development should be provided with decentralized infrastructures in a proper and concrete way.
The local production of photovoltaic energy on buildings makes renewable energy very competitive.
It secures jobs and ensures cooperation with the third world and the Mediterranean in particular.
In this context, I should like to see more renewable energy used in public buildings in Brussels and other places in the European Union.
I know that the rapporteur has endeavoured to be realistic with his target of 15 %.
I say that we can exceed this target and go for 20 % if we really try.
The market in technology for the use of renewable energy sources is a much contested future market precisely because of these circumstances.
The objective must be to raise the share of renewable energy sources in primary energy consumption from the present 5.2 % to 15 % by the year 2010, and I believe that this ambitious aim can be a realistic one.
Because the SAVE II programme, for which appropriations of ECU 150 m were proposed, was cut to ECU 45 m by the Council.
Just imagine: Germany is referring to its subsidiarity, Austria was actually in favour of it being cut to ECU 35 m.
We want to support good programmes that help us to save energy and that is why the SAVE II programme should be allocated at least ECU 150 m if it is to be at all competitive.
Finally, because it proposes a global policy for the sector of renewable energy sources, at a time that is critical for the future development of those energy sources.
However, let me remind you that in the Commission's White Paper on energy policy, it is stated that world demand for energy is forecast to increase in the coming years, the coming decades.
The promotion of renewable energy sources must be a fundamental ingredient of these alternative solutions.
As we have already stated in the White Paper, and we agree with your own views, the Commission will prepare an overall strategy and a plan of action to promote renewable energy sources.
In that context, we will of course analyse the action already taken by the Commission in this specific area.
The research and demonstration activities promoted by the Commission have played a very important part in improving the quality of the energy services provided by renewable energy sources, and in reducing the cost of constituents and systems.
In addition, we have made substantial efforts to give out information within the scope of this action.
Towards the end of November, the Commission will organize a conference in Spain for all contributors to and participants in the programme.
In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction that this report proposes to develop renewable energy sources in the Mediterranean area.
I have personally undertaken the commitment to promote cooperation in the sector of energy in the Mediterranean area.
I hope my counterparts in the other Mediterranean countries will also lay due stress upon renewable energy sources.
In the aftermath of the Barcelona Conference, the European Union's Ministers for Energy and the Ministers responsible for issues of cooperation between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries met in Trieste between 7 and 9 June, and officially declared the start of cooperation initiatives in the energy sector, among which the promotion of renewable energy sources is included.
His report is one which largely strengthens and supplements the Commission's efforts in a sector which is vitally important for the future.
At the same time, it is a report which gives us much food for thought concerning the preparation of a new Community strategy to promote renewable energy sources in the European Union, which we will in any case have the opportunity to debate again, both within the framework of Parliament's Committee on Energy and of course during Parliament's Plenary.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Despite a few positive facts that have emerged since my report, the stocktake suggests that no significant progress has been made since Cairo and that the main indicators are at red.
It is true that family planning is progressing, but there are still three hundred million women today with no access to contraceptives, and five hundred thousand throughout the world are dying as a consequence of pregnancy.
One hundred and fifty million remain handicapped for life as a result, 94 % of them in the developing countries.
But infection with the HIV virus is rampant among women and adolescent girls because of their sexual and economic subordination and lack of information.
It is true that the gap in life expectancy as between rich and poor countries is generally narrowing, but alarming declines are apparent in Russia and in black Africa.
As regards education, the entitlement to education and the progress made, it is true that primary education for women is the key factor behind demographic change, but two-thirds of illiterate adults are women, and threequarters of children with no access to primary teaching are girls.
In the United States, which formally provided 17 % of world aid to family planning in the developing countries, Congress has just reduced this budget by 35 %.
In Germany, too, Parliament has resolved that the first follow-up meeting to Cairo should be held in Hanover in 1999, at the same time as the world exhibition.
The European Union, for its part, has indeed unfrozen the funds which it committed in 1995: ECU 50 million.
The European Union, as the world's leading commercial power and the principal donor of aid to the developing countries, must do more to respect its commitments by demonstrating a genuine political will, urge the Member States to keep their financial promises, galvanize the creation of networks and new forms of partnership between NGOs, governments, Members of Parliament and the affected populations, integrate 'gender mainstreaming' into development cooperation, and promote equality between men and women.
They are the beating heart of a triple dynamic, no aspect of which can be isolated from the other two.
Demography, development and democratization are their three burdens, and our three opportunities.
I think it is of great importance too for the Commissioner to tell us how he would like to change this organization to give shape to projects of this kind in the future.
Naturally it is very important to coordinate the budgets.
A demographic policy can only be effective if it is part of a broader whole of measures to combat poverty and environmental threats.
May I, in conclusion, bring something to the Commissioner's attention in this respect.
I read this morning in a Dutch newspaper that AIDS will really affect the demographic prospects of 20 or 30 African countries.
The ICPD action programme reflects a worldwide and far-reaching vision while at the same time achieving agreement on the key questions, on highly sensitive questions which, after all, affect people in the most personal way.
The message of Cairo - that women are the key to development - also dominated the action plan and made it incontrovertibly clear that equality for women in all areas must be a requirement of all policies and programmes.
My country, the federal government, spends less than 0.3 % on this important task, although it has agreed to made greater efforts and increase the expenditure.
I ask all Members not to fail to support the well-balanced motion for a resolution in the Fouque report.
I should like to remind you briefly that the report tackles the world demographic problem from the point of view not only of economics but of ethics.
It deals with the problems related to population, poverty, means of production and consumption, the interrelation between development and environment and how all those subjects are related to women, above all in the sphere of health and education.
Follow-up for this Conference consists in: international political support for all aspects concerning population and development, mobilization of the necessary resources, coordination of actions, diffusion of information and a permanent quest for solutions.
Everyone knows what hopes the world places on the European Union for its pioneering role in encouraging democratic freedoms, the rights of women and equality of opportunity.
Our free dialogue with the developing countries and the Union's economic contribution to cooperation have placed us ahead of the United States.
But we must remember that in Cairo the European Union promised to give considerable economic aid and, seeing that Community action in the field of cooperation has a good legal foundation in the Treaty and that in many of the Member States there is a political will to apply it, we ask the Commission and the foot-dragging Member States once and for all to apply all those programmes intended to ensure the dignity, the equality of women in political, economic and family life in accordance with the promises made in Beijing and covered by the Fourth Programme for equality approved by this Assembly last December.
We men and women of Europe must be capable of innovation and flexibility in our approach.
To conclude, Madam President, I should like to mention that, through the ironies of history, we have the paradox that whilst the demographic situation in Europe is alarming because of the ageing of its population and the very low birth rate in some member countries, in other parts of the world, basically in Asia, Africa and Latin America the problems of the demographic explosion give rise to an enormous increase in poverty and much environmental damage.
On behalf of my group I therefore ask the Commission to increase its efforts and to evaluate the plans and actions designed to further the development policies and programmes in demographic matters, in health and education, above all of women, in the developing countries so that we may reach the year 2015 having achieved the objectives of reducing infant and maternal mortality, and making genetic health, family planning and primary education available to all.
Madam President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent in-depth report on the present situation on the follow-up to the Cairo Conference.
Many of these countries have limited resources and are incapable of dealing with the demands of their growing populations.
As the rapporteur has already said, women are among the main victims of debt in the developing countries.
In my view the World Bank could help resolve this problem by selling some of its assets, including gold, but the World Bank, being the World Bank, seems to be deaf to the plight of millions of people suffering from indebtedness.
Far from meeting the goal of devoting 0.7 % of GNP to development aid, the donor countries' global contributions to development programmes fell in 1992 and 1994 from 0.34 % to 0.29 % of GNP.
It is an appalling indictment of international policies that 70 % of the 1.4 billion people living below the poverty threshold are women.
Furthermore, 150 million women are left with long-term illness or disability as a result of pregnancy.
Some 9 million women are HIV-positive.
I would call on the Commission to examine this situation as a matter of urgency.
This is generally evident from the fact that of 960 million illiterate adults in the world, two-thirds are women.
Furthermore of the 130 million illiterate children in the world, 90 million do not have access to primary education.
I look forward to the first assessment of Cairo which will be held in Hanover in 1999.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the action programme set out by the Cairo Conference combined effective demographic policies with human dignity and emphasized the central role of women in the development of peoples, in demographic stability and in promoting peace.
It is therefore necessary to guarantee and to promote women's education, their access to employment, their health training, information on their rights as regards voluntary parenthood and access to methods of birth control.
The European Parliament expressed its views before and after the Cairo Conference and now we ask the Commission to send us, two years later, a document or a report explaining what it has done to put the policies decided in Cairo into effect and we also ask it to accept this resolution.
I will however take the liberty of saying, Mrs Fouque, that I am aware of a certain inconsistency between that statement and the continuation of your report.
All world economic development must be geared to satisfying the fundamental and basic needs of food, shelter and health care in these various countries.
Because these evils are linked: our 18 million unemployed, the 50 million citizens of the Union afflicted by poverty and exclusion, and the difficulties experienced by the developing countries.
From this point of view I have insufficient time, but I believe there could be enough of us prepared to decide to change our international economic analysis.
And I believe that, from this point of view, both in our own countries and in the developing countries, the crisis of the family - whatever it may be - is not beneficial either to children or to women, who find themselves responsible for the children they have brought into the world.
The need for access to education and information is now essential, and I would say, even urgent.
On the threshold of the new millennium, 2000, while the countries of the European Union and others in the developed world are organizing information campaigns and establishing the free issue of condoms for protection from AIDS, in other countries the use of the condom is still disputed.
Most illiterates are women, because they are not recognized as having the right of access to education.
The European Union's role, then, must be a catalytic one but not only in approaching the issue from an economic standpoint.
I applaud the aim of increasing the amount available from the European Union to 300 million ECU by 2000.
The European Union should also encourage information campaigns for the citizens concerning their rights, training and information programmes, and programmes relating to the health of women and children.
I thank Mrs Fouque for her excellent work and hope the Commission will respond to our appeal.
The Commission of course shares her opinion that the follow-up to the Cairo Conference must not only respect the action plan agreed in Cairo, but also the status of women and must ensure that the contribution which that makes to solving the problems of development, poverty and population is fully recognized.
The Commission finds that the policy emerging since the Cairo Conference represents a real advance in concrete terms, even though by now I acknowledge that our policy was a modest one.
Honourable Members will remember that on the basis of the Cairo action plan and taking account both of the European Parliament's resolutions and the Council's observations, the Commission in 1995 presented its proposal for a Council regulation on aid for population policies and programmes in the developing countries.
That new regulation is specifically linked to a modest budget heading - ECU 7 million in 1996 - although its real significance is much more important in political terms, as I shall try to show later.
The regulation will give priority to innovative pilot projects, catalyst programmes and operational research work.
The main priorities put forward by the Commission in its proposal - I am speaking of the regulation - are very clear: to allow women and men to choose freely how many children they have; to help to create a socio-cultural, economic and educative environment which will make possible to full exercise of that right; to help to develop health systems which, where reproduction is concerned, will significantly reduce the risks for mother and child.
To pursue these priorities the Commission proposes to concentrate Community aid on: the development of family planning services in accordance with the policies pursued by governments, international organizations and non-government organizations, in particular in favour of marginalized sectors of the population; -the education of women and health education, particularly the preparation, realization and financing of specific policies in the sector; -the improvement of reproductive health services; -help for information, education and public awareness campaigns; -the development of basic organizations and south/south cooperation between the underdeveloped countries themselves.These guidelines, in conjunction with the guidelines on selection of projects in the demographic cooperation sector, constitute a sufficiently precise framework to enable the Commission to plan its activities consistently.
On the other hand the setting up of the group of experts supported by the Council and the revision of important cooperation projects by the Council's committees themselves must in principle help to ensure that there is an acceptable level of coordination between the Commission's programmes and those of the Member States.
As regards the European Union's undertaking at Cairo to increase its allocation of funds to population programmes, the news is in principle favourable, naturally within modest limits.
The average for budgetary appropriations for commitment from 1991 to 1994 - and I mean financial commitments under the Community budget - has gone up to ECU 20 million a year.
Total commitments for 1995 have gone up to some ECU 45 million.
To put it another way, from 1994 to 1995 the Community budget for implementing the Cairo Conference has doubled.
As regards 1996, the present financial year, we are hoping - this is the Commission's proposal - to be able to increase our commitments for these policies on demography and women to some ECU 90 million.
Naturally it is debatable whether any budget is enough.
And to answer the questions raised by most honourable Members, I have to remind you again that in the European Union there are two budgetary authorities: one is the Council and the other is you, the European Parliament.
Consequently I invite you, if you think the figure proposed by the Commission - some ECU 90 million - is not enough, or if, as some speakers have said, you think the number of officials working on these matters is not enough either, I would encourage you, when the budget is being discussed in Parliament in October, to use your budgetary authority and increase the appropriations for these programmes and, moreover, give us increased appropriations so we may appoint more officials.
It is by no means correct, as her report states, that only ECU 2.8 million have been spent in the context of the Lomé Convention.
ECU 20 million have been spent this year on projects located in Kenya, Malawi and above all in the Caribbean.
In any event the Commission is making an effort to include in all its population programmes the objectives which you set out in your report.
The Commission believes that the motion for a resolution is clear about what line should be followed.
However, we think that recognition of the role which women must play is expressed even more clearly in the amended proposal for a regulation which the Commission will shortly be sending to the Council and which will have to be dealt with by the joint procedure with the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I have telephoned the Olympic Committee in Lausanne and in Atlanta today and they could not give me any absolute certainty because there are still two days before the final list of participants in the Olympic Games in Atlanta is known, which means that all those countries which until now were minded not to send any women there still have two days' time, or by now I should say one and a half days' time, to change their list of participants and still to allow women to qualify.
The responsibility naturally lies with the Olympic Committee, which of course should refuse to allow these countries to take part in the Games, but it does not lie solely with them.
There has already been mention of Barcelona where it became very clear, where one country refused to follow a female standardbearer.
The second question is actually whether the Commission should and could declare that teams which quite deliberately do not include women must not be admitted to the Olympic Games.
But I think that you have to draw a limit perhaps with teams which have more than three or four members.
So, taking account of the authority which the European Parliament has in such matters, perhaps you could invite the International Olympic Committee to come here to the European Parliament to explain to why some countries discriminate against women by not allowing them to take part in the Olympic Games, which is in fact contrary to the Olympic Charter, the United Nations Convention and the Convention on Human Rights, which states that there shall be no discrimination on grounds of race, religion or sex.
Perhaps the International Olympic Committee will be able to explain to you much better than I can why, within the international Olympic movement this type of situation is permitted.
In the field of top-class sport there have in fact always been discussions about human rights, which is a good thing.
Atlanta Plus, this campaign, has now become a movement supported by many sports personalities and politicians, yet the International Olympic Committee is hesitating and the European governments are remaining silent.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some countries cannot be persuaded by means of exclusion or condemnation to allow their women the freedom to take part or not in the Olympic Games.
Perhaps also a new policy should be adopted in the sector of sport, a policy better suited to the spirit of these games, whose organization often depends too much on clearly economic choices, a fact that has led us today to celebrate the centenary of the Olympic Games far from the country where they first saw the light, the country of their birth, and the country that first kindled their flame.
Madam President, in South Africa we have seen what effect a sports boycott may have on a country itself.
In practice sport plays an important part in promoting human rights.
And now, when the Atlanta Games start on 19 July 35 countries, primarily Islamic countries, Mrs Van Dijk, have systematically and deliberately not included women.
The eyes of the whole world are on Atlanta.
Women athletes have an important function as a symbol and an example, certainly in traditional societies, but also with us and so we want to give a clear political sign in a constructive way.
I understand that the Commission has no authority, but we call upon the Council to ask for a boycott, at future Olympic Games, of countries which breach human rights by systematically preventing women from taking part.
I also press for us to apply the human rights clause clearly ourselves when we conclude EU cooperation agreements with third countries.
The nucleus of the problem is naturally general undervaluing of women in certain countries such as Turkey, Yemen, Iraq, Saudi-Arabia, but there too we can play a part by encouraging the role of women in EU agreements and projects.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed.
As in the days of Barcelona there are now probably some 35 states that will send all-male teams to the USA.
A whole 500 days before Atlanta, at the beginning of January 1995, committed women in Paris founded the Atlanta Plus Committee and contacted national sport authorities, sportsmen and sportswomen, with some success.
The exclusion of women from the Olympic movement merits only one answer: sanctions.
What South Africa felt the brunt of for decades, its exclusion from the Olympic movement because of its policy of apartheid, must also apply to the national Olympic committees of those states that trample women's rights underfoot.
The resolution submitted by our Committee on Women's Rights deserves the support of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
I am of course in agreement with what all my colleagues have just said, the more so since it was I who tabled the first motion for a resolution.
One point seems to me to have been overlooked: sport is a factor in improving health for men, and more particularly for women, and those countries which prohibit women from participating in the Olympic Games are those which have the highest maternal and child mortality rates and the highest levels of underdevelopment and discrimination against women.
The debate is closed.
