I should like to thank all those who are staying on here today, the so-called Friday club, which is indeed a very alert and active club which will see things through here to the end.
Applause Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
Thank you, Mrs van Bladel.
Thank you, Mrs Lulling.
We have gradually moved from sectoral directives regulating various activities to a horizontal approach based on the principle of mutual recognition and two key directives from 1989 and 1992.
The last committee report for this parliamentary term confirms the old adage of 'last but not least'.
Potato starch The next item is the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1868/94 establishing a quota system for the production of potato starch (COM(99)0173 - C4-0214/99-99/0088(CNS)).
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, when the House discussed Expo 2000 in 1990, Venice was still being mooted as a possibility.
This was because the Lisbon World Exhibition was also important for the European Union and the Commission was very much taken up with it.
If we can look forward to a total budget of some EUR 15 million, including the 2000 budget, then it is all thanks to the efforts of our colleagues.
As the 2005 Expo is, I am delighted to say, to be held in Nagoya in Japan, I would point out that the exhibition in Osaka led to a number of scandalous bureaucratic blunders, when they built the Europe pavilion but refused to put up the Coudenhove-Kalergi statue.
We should think of our own roots, and when we go to Japan in particular - and 2005 is not so far away - we should focus on the links we have with these countries.
Applause Madam President, Mr von Habsburg looked ahead in his speech and said that we must look forward to future universal exhibitions.
The theme for the exhibition is mankind, nature and technology.
It is the Commission's intention to ensure the participation of the European Union and its institutions at this important event.
This was also outlined in our communication of 18 March.
We are pleased to see that all EU Member States will participate in this event.
The aim of Union participation at Expo 2000 is to present the crucial role the European Union is playing, through its institutions, as a forward-looking, dynamic actor on the world stage at the dawn of the 21st century.
The companies involved in the competition have also been informed directly.
The Commission is responsible for the official coordination of all EU institutions to ensure they participate in a coherent manner in Expo.
With regard to the budget, an estimated amount of EUR 14 m is proposed for the year 1999-2000 on budget line B3-309, Special Annual Events.
It will be recalled that a total of EUR 10 m was earmarked on budget line B3-309/99 in order to finance two activities: Expo 2000 and a European campaign to combat violence against women.
In addition to this it is strongly recommended that a further EUR 6.5 m is voted for in the budget for the next year, the year 2000, to complete the Expo 2000 action.
The Commission looks forward to continuing cooperation with the European Parliament and its services to ensure that the Union's participation at Expo 2000 will be an important event in bringing the European Union and its institutions closer to its citizens.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer.
I am concluding my participation in this final part-session of the European Parliament on the same subject, more convinced than ever of the need to defend this sector and more confident about its future.
In my own country, where this sector accounts for 25 % of jobs in processing industries and 30 % of exports, where there are regions that are almost entirely dependent on it, with a consequent impact on the life of most families, thousands of workers and employers are viewing the future with hope and anticipation, but also with many doubts and fears.
The European industry believes that recent imports from a number of third countries, especially from Asia, were made at very low prices.
At the meeting of 3 May Sir Leon Brittan assured the European industry that if there was evidence of such unfair trade practices the Commission would examine very seriously any complaint made by the industry.
Firstly, for WTO members, the agreement on textiles and clothing (the ATC) already provides for quantitative restrictions on imports from a number of third countries, including countries in South-east Asia.
Some developing countries which are WTO members would indeed be interested in amending the agreement on textiles and clothing in order to speed-up the liberalisation of all quantitative restrictions, presently due to be completed on 1 January 2005.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
A country which had the right to import shirts but not piece-good textiles got round the rules by importing shirts with tails 15 metres long - and they got away with it.
When sectors are in crisis, we must always ensure that we take the right measures in good time.
We have more than 16 million SMEs in the European Union, and they need to be given greater help and consideration here in the House in future.
And, ladies and gentlemen, if you will let me make the most of this list, I will contact you all every autumn from the year 2000 onwards so that, wherever we may be, we can try to meet on a Friday here in Strasbourg.
I hope that your and our example will be carried through to the next term to include Friday as a day when we can count on the presence of 620 Members.
Furthermore, I should like to point out that for 40 years, Spanish parliamentarians were starved of democracy, and for us the parliamentary institution is extremely important.
I cannot, much as I would like to, speak Catalan, but nonetheless I would like to thank you and also all the Vice-Presidents who are not here and have done such sterling work, as well as President Gil-Robles.
Mr Gutiérrez Díaz, I would first like to say that I believe your profession as a paediatrician has been a great help to you in understanding many of the issues discussed here in Parliament.
Thank you very much and I wish you every success in your profession.
Thank you, Mr Bertens.
That is a very short time but it is enough for me to have appreciated your work as President and your work in chairing this sitting.
Therefore, whether or not you are on the list, whether or not you are in the party, or whether or not you are in this House, I know that both of you, like many of us here today, are in favour of freedom, justice and solidarity.
Mr President, as someone who has been in Parliament for 20 years, I should also like to congratulate you, together with my colleague Ursula Schleicher, who has also often been a member of the Friday club.
It was always a great pleasure to round off a long and difficult sitting - and I was often there at the end, though not always - with a joke, and I hope that the spirit which you have stood for and which several people have reflected in their speeches will continue in the next Parliament.
This has inspired me to thank you for being a vice-president who has always stood up for the rights of individual Members.
Mr President, I too would like to thank you.
Thank you, Mrs Gröner.
I should like to thank you and all the Members of this House who have spoken.
Thank you very much, Mr Posselt.
Therefore, because they have survived, and because they have helped us so much, we thank them.
I should also like to pass on our thanks to them for their work on selecting the right aspects.
We should also like to thank them.
