I therefore wanted to tell you that I inadvertently voted "yes' in the vote on the Cornelissen report on the first part of recital 0, when I intended to vote "no' .
Mr President, yesterday I raised a point of order, which is on page 16 of the English version of the Minutes.
It would seem that some people were either preoccupied doing something else or we were not able to hear what was going on.
Mr President, the full report on Tuesday night's sitting, which I only received yesterday, included my speech on the oral question on Alzheimer's disease.
It will be corrected. (The Minutes were approved) European voluntary service action programme The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0077/98) on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council Decision establishing the Community action programme "European Voluntary Service for Young People' (C4-0007/98-96/0318(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mrs Fontaine) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the Conference of Heads of State and Government which met in Corfu in June 1994, the Commission was set the task of mobilizing its citizens in favour of Europe.
Its originality consists of giving young Europeans aged between 18 and 29 the opportunity to become involved in social, environmental and cultural projects or projects promoting democracy either in neighbouring Member States or in third countries.
It is extremely interesting to note that at the end of the pilot phase of the European Voluntary Service programme many young people have returned to their studies, found a job or decided to stay on in their host country because of the programme.
We have highlighted that this European experience requires follow-up and we are delighted to note that the Council has adopted all of Parliament's amendments in this respect which were voted for at first reading.
With the same concerns in mind, we had also emphasized that the European Voluntary Service should reach a certain standard of quality.
It proposes ECU 35 million over two years, a laughable amount which would not enable more than 5 000 young people to benefit over two years, given the fixed amounts put aside for information and accompaniment purposes.
We are proposing an increase in this amount to ECU 80 million, which would triple the number of young people who can benefit from the programme and which would ensure that by the end of the first phase each of our Member States will have a sample group large enough to evaluate the impact of the programme and, of course, to plan for its future development.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has chosen to target the second reading amendments on these three fundamental issues, to which it has added, as you might expect, the information required by the European Parliament throughout the implementation of the programme.
We thank the Commission for its support and we hope that, after due consideration of our legitimate expectations and those of our young people, the European Voluntary Service will be able to embark on its most active phase, thus optimizing the possibilities and hopes that we want to offer the youth of Europe.
In the last few months, while in the Council several governments of Member States were vehemently opposed to decent financing of the programme, thousands of young people in their countries were asking for information, getting enthusiastic and submitting their applications to do voluntary work in another European country.
At first reading of the European Parliament, we amended the draft programme submitted by the Commission, while essentially sharing its approach.
The European citizens should know that some of their governments do not intend to specifically apply the principle of freedom of movement of citizens within the Union.
Secondly, we need to explain clearly the possibility of developing relations, cooperation and, where possible, integration between the European Voluntary Service and the national civil services.
The action programme is a fine example of a practical project in the construction of a citizens' Europe.
The fund of ECU 35 million, born of the common position the Council has taken on this matter, is not enough to ensure that the programmes will remain operational.
I would also like to thank the Council, which has accepted the extension of the age limit, which now covers young people aged 18 to 29, which gives us the possibility of operating in a vast field, as young people really need to have a special interest, whether in the social, environmental or cultural world.
Our political group is supporting this programme with great interest and, obviously together with all of Parliament, believes that the financial allocation should be increased to 80 ECU million.
An effort should also be made by the Commission which, in turn, wished to increase that allocation to 60 ECU million.
We also believe that the Member States should adopt the necessary measures to ensure coordination between the European Voluntary Service and the civil services existing at national level, facilitating the access of young European volunteers to the national infrastructures and contributing actively towards the essential synergy between transnational activities and national voluntary measures.
Naturally you can say that there is always a need for more money, but we are not asking for the impossible when we insist on a figure of ECU 80 million.
We must support the mobility of young people and motivate their efforts of solidarity, while always maintaining respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
The information provided on the programme in the various countries should, in particular, focus the attention of all young on the planned work experience which is at the centre of our priorities: environmental protection and cultural wealth.
Moreover, we believe it necessary to increase the financial allocation from ECU 35 to 80 million for the first two years of the programme, otherwise we risk frustrating the entire project owing to a lack of financial means.
Mr President, the European Voluntary Service is a part of the process of integrating young people into the bigger process of integrating Europe.
Mr President, exchange programmes are the most effective means of letting young people experience how enriching it can be to participate in other people's cultures at a personal and even political level.
This programme is attracting an extraordinary amount of interest from young people.
Parliament's renewed call for the programme to be funded to the tune of ECU 80 million in the period 1998-1999 takes this view into account.
This was mentioned a short while ago: ECU 35 million for the two-year period is verging on the ridiculous, particularly since it concerns a series of programmes that, according to all Members - and many other people -, needs to provide young people with importance, belief in themselves and belief in cultural programmes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the idea of a transnational European Volunteer Service is to be welcomed - and I should like to express to the rapporteur my appreciation of all the work she has done -, I fear that the objective set out in the report will not be achieved due to a lack of funds.
Everyone has been so unanimous on these points that I should perhaps concentrate on points that have not yet been addressed, as it is seldom that there is such unanimity in this House and such a positive attitude.
Long before the Cannes Summit people said that one of the EU's absolute priorities was to create good conditions for increased employment.
Mr President, this debate is at risk of becoming boring but I will operate on the principle that if you say something often enough and clearly enough you might get the same message through.
You run out of noughts to get to the 0.1 decimal percentage point to work out how much goes on young people, 40 % of the population of Europe.
I am very proud that we were able to bring the Council and Commission on board at that time.
Of course, the right conditions for this have still not been created, even now.
Firstly, a programme addressing the situation of young people should be designed to radiate outwards in such a way as to reach all young people, without exception, in the shortest possible period of time.
This support varies from one state to another, because the degree of information varies and because the media in some countries willingly publicize the issue whilst others are more reticent to do so.
On the other hand, the organizations responsible for this programme are more or less efficient.
The Commission is happy to note that the European Parliament shares its general analysis of the Council's common position.
It is in this spirit that it has studied the amendments adopted by the appropriate Parliamentary committee and I am happy to inform you that we can take some of your concerns into account in the amended text that will be submitted to the Council for adoption of a final decision.
Why should a young unemployed person have more difficulty in participating in a European Voluntary Service activity than anybody else?
Nevertheless, the Member States have been able to find solutions within the framework of the pilot phase, if on a small scale.
Lessons consequently need to be drawn from this experience in order to find larger scale solutions within the framework of the new programme.
I was able to draw this to the attention of the relevant ministers during the Youth Council in Luxembourg on 28 October last year.
Respect for the jurisdiction of Member States does not permit the Commission to accept Amendments Nos 1 and 5, in particular the introduction of a European status of young volunteer.
I would like to emphasize that in Article 7, subparagraph 1, the common position of the Council does encompass the spirit of the European Parliament's amendments.
With regard to the composition of the programme committee, the Commission is able to accept Amendment No 7, in accordance with committee procedure.
Concerning the amendments which have been rejected for legal reasons, apart from the ones already mentioned, Amendments Nos 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 cannot be accepted by the Commission for strictly legal reasons.
I am sure you are aware how sympathetic I am to Amendment No 3 with regard to the two year budget for the programme.
However, the Commission has settled on an amount of ECU 60 million, which represents the minimum amount required to cover the necessary number of people and to achieve the objectives of the programme in the light of the experience of the pilot phase.
We still have a final battle to fight, but I am confident in this respect because the basic idea of a European Voluntary Service is now fully accepted by the Member States.
The common and shared objective is now to enable the development of a Community action which will contribute to the construction of Europe from the roots up, calling on the personal initiative of our youth regardless of their social, cultural or educational situation.
The Commission hopes that this programme will come into line with its proposal as soon as possible and that it will be possible to take a final decision in time to enable its rapid and adequate implementation on behalf of young people, who are the primary beneficiaries of this programme.
It is a booklet of around four or more pages; it is extremely simple and not very glossy, I have to say, in comparison with the Commission's other publications, but this is deliberate.
I would like to add that I have available, in typed form only, a number of case studies taken from the different Member States on how the young people tackled their period of voluntary service and how they benefited from it.
Thus, in qualitative terms, the results are extremely good, but we cannot yet tell in terms of quantitative results as we have not yet reached this point.
There has only been a 2 % failure rate, which relates to young people who do not finish their period of stay, or who do not adapt well and decide to go home.
Mr Morris, this question has already been raised and has been given a response.
Thus, although conscientious objection is a frame of mind which I respect in itself, I cannot subscribe to the point of view which consists of immediately saying, "I do not want to learn to use arms to defend my country' .
Conscientious objectors undertake civil service in place of military, for a longer period.
It is clear that in countries where military service exists it must be imposed on all young people.
Let us consequently leave the military authorities to deal with their conscientious objectors and let us avoid taking sides in countries where military service exists.
This is the Commission's point of view.
Thank you very much, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
These include cases where the Council adopts sanctions against a third country, where resolutions passed by the UN Security Council must be complied with, where agreements are suspended or where regulations introduce an embargo.
Today, Parliament is discussing a similar problem with regard to the development of relations with the countries of central and eastern Europe.
It is therefore a series of problems relating to the role of Parliament and the balance between the institutions on highly sensitive points on the development and future physiognomy of the European Union.
In our case, it relates to Article 3 of the MEDA Regulation which states that the programme is based on respect for democratic principles and the rule of law, and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms that are an essential aspect of them, violation of which justifies the adoption of appropriate measures.
The proposed regulation sets out the means for adopting a decision where such an eventuality is confirmed.
The new Commission proposal, drawn up in accordance with Article 16 of the MEDA Regulation, reintroduces the qualified majority decision-making procedure for the adoption of appropriate measures when an essential element for the continuation of support measures for a Mediterranean Partner is lacking.
My proposal is very simple: the Commission's text should be adopted with the addition that the Council may establish appropriate measures, deciding by a qualified majority on the Commission's proposal or on the basis of a recommendation made by the European Parliament, adopted in accordance with Article J.7 of the Treaty on European Union and, at all events, after hearing Parliament's opinion.
I believe that this then totally protects the Council's prerogative to decide and enables Parliament to intervene in a matter in which the judgment of possible measures to be made is an overall political judgment, relating to the consideration of many aspects of the matter in one country or another in one of the most complex and difficult contexts in the world, as I mentioned at the beginning.
Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party supports the Colajanni report.
This essential improvement towards a more general strengthening of the common foreign and defence policy, which the Commission omits in its proposal, is introduced by the amendment tabled by Mr Colajanni.
It has had the opposite effect of what was intended; it has meant unfortunately that the serious achievements of the Barcelona process have been entirely undermined.
The Colajanni report has arrived far too late, but better late than never.
Consequently, in these circumstances the European Parliament has both the right and the obligation to intervene in the process.
Those three points therefore seem completely acceptable to us.
However, the reality is that there was not even consensus amongst the Council on whether voting could take place by qualified majority.
This amendment is aimed at ensuring that the European Parliament's voice is heard when that forum considers that an essential element is lacking in order to continue with the support measures for a Mediterranean partner.
The MEDA programme, which has received ECU 3 500 million for this five-year period, is the most ambitious initiative ever adopted by the European Union to promote security and political stability in the Mediterranean.
To ensure that it has its desired effect, it is essential that the European Union's cooperation with the countries involved in the MEDA programme is based on total respect for democratic liberties and human rights.
But there is an enormous political, cultural, social and economic abyss between the societies on the two sides of the mare nostrum .
We certainly do not believe it is necessary to standardize cultures and social traditions, but it is important and essential to ensure that all of the countries which hope to have close relations with the European Union show permanent respect for democratic liberties and human rights.
The tense situation in Algeria and in Israel's Occupied Territories, not to mention the tensions in the Aegean Sea, sufficiently prove how necessary it is to encourage the countries to move towards a greater respect of liberties.
When the regulation on the MEDA programme was drawn up, Article 16 did not determine the definitive procedure to be followed in adopting measures regarding a Mediterranean Partner and one essential element is lacking.
When the Council can give an opinion by a qualified majority and when Parliament can state its thoughts on the nonobservance of human rights, freedoms and democratic principles, then, and only then, will we finally be able to open a serious debate on a country such as Syria which, with European economic backing, accepts an inappropriate blessing for a political system that is totally undemocratic.
The talks will only fail when Parliament and the other European institutions give their tacit consent to the non-observance of fundamental democratic rights.
In fact, this Parliament truly wishes to resume talks on decentralized cooperation with the countries bordering the southern Mediterranean as soon as possible.
Luckily, this process is already being implemented and, during a recent public hearing, the Commission provided us with a whole series of information.
Mr President, this is an opportunity to make a further assessment of the validity of several rules on social and civilian protection present in the MEDA Regulation, that lay down different procedures for the application of the programmes and the possible suspension of cooperation for countries failing to observe the democratic principles and the rule of law.
The violations of human rights and democratic rights in some regions of the Mediterranean are not a cause for concern but, unfortunately, a dramatic reality.
The European Parliament has not only confirmed its necessary commitment to the rights of freedom and democracy, but also, and more specifically, emphasized, at first and at second reading, the requirement of a specific direct role in the penalizing procedure for any non-observance of the principles of democracy and freedom in some Mediterranean countries.
The launch of the MEDA programme should presuppose the EU's strong commitment to southern Europe.
In fact, a full development of the Mediterranean European community may be the true vehicle for a partnership policy with third countries.
I therefore intend to confirm the need for infrastructural intervention to create new entrepreneurial measures and, above all, to provide employment, so as to avoid the serious economic and social repercussions in the European areas of the Mediterranean that really give rise to delays in the difficult path of the MEDA programme.
Mr President, the proposal for a regulation which Mr Colajanni's report deals with is aimed at supplementing the MEDA Regulation which entered into force just under two years ago.
This additional regulation concerns how the MEDA Regulation should be applied to human rights.
Under the MEDA Regulation, the Commission should present proposals for a decision-making procedure which would make it possible to adopt measures when violations of human rights or other fundamental rights occur.
The partnership between the EU and the Mediterranean countries began at the Barcelona Conference in November 1995 when the foreign ministers of the EU's Member States and the twelve countries in the southern Mediterranean met.
The proposal was then adopted by the Council of Ministers in July 1996.
The aim of the MEDA Regulation is to supplement the measures which the partners themselves adopt to increase competitiveness, prosperity and social stability.
The regulation clearly points out that respect for these fundamental principles must form the basis of the MEDA programme.
The Commission has proposed that decisions should be taken by qualified majority, and this has also been approved by the Council of Ministers.
The idea is to convey in a powerful way the message that, when necessary, Europe will not hesitate to adopt measures to protect human rights and other fundamental principles.
The rapporteur also proposes that it should be possible to adopt these measures on the basis of a recommendation from the European Parliament.
Unfortunately, the Commission cannot accept the rapporteur's amendments.
However, on the basis of Article 138b of the Treaty of Rome, Parliament can always call on the Commission to put forward proposals in this area.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report submitted this morning for the Chamber's attention includes in its principal objectives that of dealing fundamentally with a problem that has existed for some time: the problem of the weakness of judicial cooperation in the international fight against organized crime.
This situation should therefore be changed, and the report proposes to define an operating attitude for the Union.
I would like to point out this aspect: the Parliament is not stating just the principles, not indicating just the problems, but pointing out a very specific path through two types of objectives: one medium- and long-term and the other with shortterm or even immediate measures, that can only be adopted with the political desire of the national governments and parliaments.
With regard to the medium- and long-term measures, I would like to recall here the points that are also offered by the new Treaty of Amsterdam.
We are therefore making positive but also critical assessments which we are renewing with force because the democratic and control aspects are absolutely essential in such delicate and sensitive matters.
Finally, perhaps the most significant part of the proposals relates to the agreements we are proposing.
In fact, this is a problem that occurs a great deal in Italy, for example, but I think it applies to all countries, judging by the alarming figures.
In terms of administrative law it has now been possible to get some protective measures off the ground but, as always, it will take a long time to create a legal framework to protect the Community budget under criminal law, although the need for action is urgent as surveys have shown that 70 % of Europe's taxpayers are much more critical of the fraudulent and improper use of tax money than tax evasion as such.
Among the many obstacles in the way of protecting financial interests effectively is one in particular: the blatant lack of cooperation between the judicial authorities in individual countries, who are faced by an increasingly well-equipped criminal underworld.
Parliament has already adopted proposals aimed at protecting financial interests in a few special fields, for example in the final report of the committee investigating transit procedures, in its resolution on the Mediterranean programmes or its resolution on the combating of fraud.
In all three reports there is a clear demand for a judicial authority at European level to coordinate and cooperate with individual countries' investigative and criminal prosecution authorities and procedures.
Its primary objective must be to define its most likely tasks and competences in order to make up for current deficiencies, such as investigations that last years, technical and diplomatic procedures or conflicts of jurisdiction, which put a stop to cooperation.
First, a European liaison office could be created to cross-match information and advice, conduct investigations and pass on the results to courts in the individual countries.
Mr President, this report deals with a very important political task for the future and I should like to thank the rapporteur for all his work.
Firstly we wanted to stress that we have a major political opportunity for integration and an instrument that is much better than the previous agreements, as is demonstrated very clearly in the report.
The second point is that we need specific democratic legitimation in the area of criminal law where civil rights are involved.
We are therefore also in favour of a change in the preliminary ruling procedure, which can now only produce results if the Member States expressly submit themselves to it.
This means that, on resuming the debate, some of us will not be able to speak after the vote, which means that the Commissioner will speak without hearing the position of the various political groups.
Effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters is an essential instrument in the fight against organized crime.
I am often asked questions by individuals about why we do not do more to combat international crime.
The Amsterdam Treaty means that we will get a new decision-making instrument in the area of criminal matters and the police.
Another change is that, in future, conventions will be able to come into effect when they have been ratified by a majority of Member States.
Mr Bontempi points out that there are even question marks about the roles of Parliament and the Court of Justice in judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the Amsterdam Treaty.
My starting point is that both institutions must be given as strong a position as possible.
I am therefore going to ensure that my Commission recommendations are delivered to Parliament immediately after decisions have been taken.
The rapporteur also deals with a number of problems connected with the exchange of information between courts in one and the same case.
I have long argued for the simplification of direct cooperation between courts and other judicial authorities in the Member States.
Another limitation in the cooperation between courts and other judicial authorities is the demand for dual criminality.
Together we must create a high level of protection in the Member States.
We should also examine whether this experience can help facilitate judicial cooperation in criminal matters in areas which come under EU policy.
I have therefore taken the initiative to create a special unit within UCLAF which will work on these questions.
We cannot discuss judicial cooperation without also discussing cooperation with countries outside the Union.
The action plan on organized crime could be an important element, and we could, of course, also include the Grotius and Falcone programmes.
The Amsterdam Treaty will mean that judicial cooperation is raised to a new level, which is important.
Mr President, I wish to protest strongly at the way in which this debate is being conducted.
Secondly, there is no way of conducting a debate under these circumstances, with 150 Members coming into the Chamber without having a serious debate on an important point.
Mr Brinkhorst, you are right.
But at this time it is difficult for the debate to continue.
This must be prevented from happening in future, not just to you, Mrs Gradin, but in general.
Furthermore, I am sorry that the debate has been suspended as many colleagues will quite possibly not be present this evening if there is further discussion.
I hope that a similar problem will not arise again and I am glad that what was said in this House reflects the present concern that the sitting will continue.
Firstly, in protest, I am abandoning my speech this afternoon because, at this point, I believe it totally useless, as I believe this afternoon's debate to be totally useless, as it is constantly being interrupted, which is absolutely wrong.
Mr Caccavale, the debate has begun.
Mr Falconer, we will verify what you have said.
Mr Brinkhorst, you have studied the Rules of Procedure.
Rule 131 states very simply: " At the start of a debate on an item on the agenda, a political group or at least twenty-nine Members may move that the debate be adjourned to a specific date and time.
Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, if the motion has yet to be tabled it can still be tabled before the vote.
The Bontempi report is an important report.
We have heard the Commission's opinion.
Mr President, since a topical and urgent debate on crime in Brussels is not possible and there is a petition here with 100 signatures on it, I would inform you that there is now also a petition in my office which can be signed by everybody, all assistants, staff members and interpreters, and I will pass on this petition to the petitions committee of the Belgian parliament.
Mr Rübig, the Presidency is always willing to listen to Members' comments on the Rules of Procedure, but such comments need to be based on an actual Rule from the Rules of Procedures!
Mr President, would you be prepared to clarify the voting procedure on the Bontempi report because we do have a voting session this evening and I question why you said it would be taken tomorrow?
Mr President, there was some misunderstanding yesterday on the Commission's cooperation on this point, but it has been cleared up, and the report is now ready to be voted on. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, I would like to ask this House's permission for a very simple oral amendment.
Mr President, before the vote I found a list at my seat.
Thanks to these new measures we are going to vote for, a victim living in another country will now be able to defend his interests through his own consumer organization.
I therefore support the Verde I Aldea report, which is a big step forward in consumer protection.
Recommendation for second reading (A4-0077/98) Mrs Fontaine Mr President, I should like to make two very brief oral statements.
In this context, "significant' means at least enough money to allow young people from all fifteen Member States and, hopefully, in the near future, the associated countries as well, to take part in the programme.
ECU 35 million would enable, at the most, five thousand young people to do so.
The room for manoeuvre in Article 3 allows for this increase.
In supporting this recommendation, I am not just defending minimum conditions of viability for the programme and of equality of opportunity for participants by increasing funding from ECU 35 to 80 million for the 1998-99 period.
My intention is primarily to express my support for the potentially powerful instrument of the European voluntary service for young people in creating a European civic awareness, through the formative experience of rendering services to society in a transnational context.
Over and above the free movement of people and the human and cultural exchange that may be offered by the programme, one of its central elements lies in working together with young people from other European countries in the voluntary pursuit of a shared civic objective.
It is also important to breath life into the European Voluntary Service and I cannot accept this minimalist desire on the part of the Council with regard to the budget.
I would like to add that our Commissioners and Ministers always have ambitions to do more than the funds will allow, in all areas!
To ignore this reality is to weaken the idea of a European Voluntary Service before it is even implemented.
The 'business' is that we know young people have a great interest in working in the areas to which the action programme relates, especially environmental and social issues, while at the same time we know that a lot needs to be done in these areas.
Yesterday the European Parliament adopted a report on how to prevent suicide among the Union's citizens.
In this context, voluntary service can make a small, but important contribution.
It does not solve the problem, but it can be taken as something positive.
Mr President, given the British government's commitment to helping our young people through the New Deal programme at home, I am glad to see this kind of work finding an echo at European level.
The governments of the EU are right to put forward the idea of a European Voluntary Service for 18 to 25 year olds.
However, this report makes some valid suggestions on how to ensure that such a programme could work successfully in practice.
I hope that Parliament will give this report the backing both it and our young people deserve if we are to encourage the community spirit and enterprise of future generations.
Boogerd-Quaak report (A4-0032/98) The amendment to the regulation on the European Training Foundation is justified and necessary.
Otherwise, the importance of education and training as a tool for integration and regional development will not have been adequately addressed.
Our partner countries need the competent support and expertise of the Training Foundation in the planning and implementation of training, which is essential for the growth of market economies and democracy.
Staff development programmes, based on the work of the Foundation, for the decision-makers in the EU and the partner countries are an important part of this work.
Motion for a resolution on Kosovo Mr President, I have now been able to vote for this compromise resolution as it has been considerably improved by the Liberal motions.
We did not even manage to open an EU office in Kosovo and now we want to take the political measures that should have been taken at that time.
Mr Posselt, I must congratulate you, not on the content of your speech, which the Presidency has no right to comment on, but on your regular presence in the House.
I wish to abstain in the vote on the joint motion for a resolution regarding Kosovo.
In conclusion, I believe that we must put greater confidence in the Serbian political forces, whether they be the Belgrade authorities or the Democratic League of Kosovo, and encourage them to renew dialogue with a view to finding an institutional solution which respects the rights of the different communities living in Serbia.
At the same time as public speeches emphasize respect for democracy and human rights, the practical reality is dominated by short-term commercial interests.
The European Parliament's resolution contains a number of our objectives.
Nevertheless, I have abstained from voting in the final vote because paragraph 6 shows that the EU's underlying, extremely liberal free trade principles have been allowed to have the upper hand over other principles which are important for social development, such as democracy, human rights and environmentally and socially sustainable development.
I applaud the fact that the city of Nuremberg has applied to be the location for this court; being fully aware of its tragic history when it was mistreated by one of the greatest criminals in human history, Adolf Hitler, it is putting itself in a position to make a contribution towards the restitution of morality.
Thank you, Mr Posselt.
Cabezón Alonso report (A4-0056/98) Mr President, we have voted in favour of the Cabezón Alonso report, but its approach to demographic issues remains far too limited.
For you cannot imagine economic growth without a growth in consumption, especially that of the young.
At the same time they are an irreplaceable training organization.
It is therefore very much in our interests to rediscover these realities, as well as to take into consideration the important work carried out by a mother within the home, as was mentioned at Copenhagen.
This desire for children exists and, in view of the serious question which I raised a moment ago, the events of last summer in Paris during the World Youth Days truly give hope to us all, to all the countries of Europe, indeed not only to Europe but to the rest of the world as well, in terms of what Europe can offer it.
In this context, the 1997 demographic report is an important occasion for a thorough examination and analysis of the statistics, to find the most appropriate solutions to deal with future social scenarios in the best possible way.
The priority is to prevent the rights of the elderly, in terms of both social security and welfare, from discriminating to the detriment of young people and women: the former because, being the future active minority population, they will have to bear the cost of providing social security for the majority elderly population; and the latter because the cost of providing social security for the elderly, and sometimes the sick and handicapped as well, is already borne by them to a greater extent.
All the counties in Sweden, apart from four, have declining populations, which means that there is a great risk of depopulation in large parts of the country.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of a report on the demographic trends in the EU.
We believe the Commission's report points to some very important problems.
If the current population trends continue, there will be 50 % more people over 60 in 30 years' time.
The Commission should remember that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure' .
With his departure, however, political decisions have once more been taken in Slovakia which give us cause for concern.
Yet it is precisely in such a situation that principles such as the rule of law and democracy must continue to be adhered to and, above all, taken seriously.
We are once again confronted with the situation where a handful of people in the Slovakian government are placing the conditions in the country in a questionable light and interpreting the will of the Slovak people, the political culture and the political rules of play in a very one-sided way and are possibly shelving accession to the European Union.
In particular, we support the efforts being made to push through the referendum on the presidency as planned, a referendum which was judged to be permissible and constitutional by Slovakia's constitutional court.
All we can hope for is that Slovakia will be accepted as a candidate for accession as speedily as possible, as soon as the democratic situation in that country has moved in a satisfactory direction.
Slovakia has always been a part of Central Europe and we trust that our support here is also strong enough in future to underpin the partnership.
Mr President, in the explanatory statement to his report, which was accepted yesterday, Mr Oostlander talks amongst other things about the criteria Slovakia must meet if it wants to participate in the talks on accession to the European Union.
The objective of today's resolutions is to call on the Slovak Prime Minister Meciar, as well as the entire Slovak parliament, to put serious effort into resolving the political problems dividing the country.
The political opposition in Slovakia's parliament - and until recently also its President - is systematically being marginalised.
It is precisely today, when a new stage in the integration and overcoming of past obstacles in Europe is being introduced at the European Conference in London, that we should be reminding the Slovak Republic that this House was largely responsible for the fact that the Slovak Republic, in the person of its acting President, is able to sit at that table in London at all.
We did this out of a sense of responsibility because we thought we understood perhaps a little better the difficulties that a new sovereign state has to overcome.
Obviously this Slovak government did not seek consensus but attempted - probably in the run-up to pending national elections - to achieve the objective of polarizing opinion.
One has to say in their defence that if they have operated by the constitution, that is correct.
That might apply to the British government, or many other governments under that system, it does not apply when the HZDS is part of a coalition which has a majority.
At the same time we have to look for some guarantees of goodwill so that Vladimir Meciar may be legally entitled to exercise the powers of the presidency.
It is true, the country has lost its place in the leading group of applicants, but it is allowed to join the European Conference.
Mr President, two resolutions criticizing Slovakia was clearly too much of a good thing.
Regrettably, the motion for a resolution on the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros dam did not make it onto the agenda.
The Hungarian population's massive protests against this dam thankfully achieved results even without the support of the European Parliament.
Prime Minister Horn will not sign the agreement with Slovakia, it was announced this week.
Mr President, President Meciar is playing with fire.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Slovak Republic's request for accession to the European Union gives us the right to remind our Slovak friends, as often as necessary, of the political and economic criteria that were set at the Copenhagen Summit for the accession of central and eastern European countries to the Union.
This does not, however, give us the right to interfere in the internal political affairs of this country.
Of course, the concentration of power in the hands of one man is a potentially dangerous situation, but it is for the Slovak citizens alone to find solutions enabling this political and constitutional crisis to be resolved.
To ask them to organize a referendum which envisages the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage, as the paragraph in the compromise resolution proposes, is clearly interference on the part of the European Parliament in Slovak internal affairs.
The head of the Slovak government is also criticized for having undertaken a significant diplomatic shake up, but no-one has mentioned that the nomination of ambassadors is normally the role of any government and that the difficult "cohabitation' between Prime Minister Meciar and President Kovac had blocked all ambassadorial nominations for two years, with the exception of a few posts such as Paris.
I fear that this inappropriate interference in Slovak life on the part of the European Parliament may only cause to exacerbate the conflict between government and opposition instead of placating it, which would have been the most desirable.
In these circumstances, the Union for Europe Group cannot support the joint motion for a resolution, nor the resolutions tabled by the various groups.
We passionately wish the recommendations to be effectively followed up so that the Slovak Republic may join the European Union as quickly as possible, which is what its people and leaders, both government and opposition, desire.
Mr President, may I say that this discussion once again shows that we have a strong responsibility for the situation in Slovakia.
The fate of the Slovakian nation and its way to the European Union depend on the decisions that the people are taking.
The Slovak government must show that it is truly committed to a pluralist democracy.
The people of Slovakia have every right to choose their own government.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares Parliament's concerns regarding the development of the political situation in the Slovak Republic, particularly those voiced by today's speakers.
These are worrying decisions.
The Commission supports the Slovak people's aspirations to advance along the path of integration into the Community, but the Commission will remain particularly vigilant with regard to the need to respect fundamental rights.
We cannot remain silent over the fact that this is our taxpayers' money and that, on that account, we, as their representatives, have not only the right but also the duty to ensure that this money is well spent.
The donation of this amount should therefore be strictly subject to compliance with the many conditions listed in paragraph 3 of the draft joint resolution.
Otherwise, there would be no reason for allocating money to achieve aims, such as, for example, the training of independent local journalists and observers which, in view of the current situation in Cambodia, would be difficult to achieve.
Today we have learned that the Cambodian government led by Hun Sen has also decided to do more to exclude the smaller parties from the election.
This is the situation we currently have in Cambodia and it is, unfortunately, in the very sad tradition of this country.
We should be trying to get the Commission to reconsider the allocation of this money or to write a report on Cambodia in the course of the next one or two months to see whether it is sensible to actually pay this money.
Mr President, it is now two years since Parliament's delegation visited Phnom Penh during a rare period of political stability in Cambodia.
We can only hope this new initiative succeeds, especially because the EU will be providing ECU 9.5 million to help prepare for the proposed elections in Cambodia later this year.
It is more important to ensure that these elections are meaningful than to hold deformed elections which ratify the Hun Sen coup.
We can only hope that the Manila peace plan can be made to work.
Mr President, on the eve of the negotiations for a cooperation agreement with Cambodia two years ago, I expressed the hope here that our support would take on a kind of conflict preventative role in the country.
But, as you know, Mr President, the international efforts were of no avail.
The Group of the European Radical Alliance considers that the European Union must demand the return, or the unconditional liberation, of opponents, the organization of free and fair elections and the strict respect of agreements concluded in Paris in 1991.
Mr President, as stated, Cambodia is experiencing an extremely worrying time in its history.
After the violence of recent months, that has led to the replacement of Prince Ranariddh in the government of Phnom Penh, the country is currently committed to an electoral process in which the international community holds great hopes.
The 26 July elections should be the real test for the political desires of Hu Sen to allow room for democracy in his country.
The work carried out by the Commission in Cambodia has been positive, as has been the support plan for the elections.
The Phnom Penh authorities should be reminded that the full inclusion of Cambodia in the international community and the approval of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Cambodia for which I am the rapporteur, an approval which was rightly suspended while awaiting further developments in the situation, depends on the organization of the legislative elections of 26 July.
I also believe that the Japanese peace plan for Cambodia, adopted in Manila, should be supported, particularly with regard to the military truce that would restore a certain amount of peace to the country and thereby favour the elections.
The Commission has set aside ECU 9.5 million by way of aid.
I think we all hoped that these elections would become democratic elections.
In my opinion, we should link it to political conditions to the effect that the political leaders of all parties can return, their return is permitted, free elections are held, there is freedom of assembly, independence of the judiciary is guaranteed and a debate is held at the ASEM summit among the ASEAN countries and between ASEM members and the governments of the European Union on the future of Cambodia and these elections or the pace of democratization.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union firmly condemns the Prime Minister's forced expulsion of Prince Ranariddh, along with the violence perpetrated in July 1997.
That is why the Commission and Member States have anticipated a one-off action of support for an amount of ECU 9.5 million.
These funds are aimed at enabling the Cambodian authorities to bring the elections planned for 26 July to a successful conclusion.
Furthermore, may I remind you, Mr Telkämper, that the European Union is already working in cooperation with the group of friends of Cambodia, the ASEAN troika and the United Nations in order to set up a system for monitoring the pluralist nature of these elections.
Finally, particular attention will be given to Prince Ranariddh's second trial, which starts on 17 March.
Colombia Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again Colombia is on the agenda and once again this is very painful for us in Parliament given our good relations with Latin America and Latin American politicians, including those in Colombia's.
Let me make two brief remarks on yet another tragic case of a human rights worker being murdered, this time even in his own office.
A short time ago, Colombia elected a new government - senate and parliament.
I do not know all the individual results but I do not think there are any significant changes.
All we can say is that the government must be called upon again and again to take action against these murders, as whoever is committing them must know that violence only begets more violence, particularly in a country where violence is a daily event.
The murder of the chairman of the permanent commission on human rights, Valle Jaramillo, whom I knew personally, is of course, terrible.
Mr President, on 27 February three people claiming to be members of the Brigade broke into the Medellín office of human rights lawyer Jesús María Valle Jaramillo.
Dr Jaramillo was then shot in the head and killed.
But we ask it to note that Dr Jaramillo had been denounced by the Governor of Antioquia for his criticisms of the military and that no local politicians have publicly lamented his death; that the human rights groups recorded 796 cases of extrajudicial executions in just nine months last year and that, despite the welcome bringing forward of the military penal code reform bill and the setting up of the Bloque de Bósqueda to combat paramilitary groups, military courts continue to acquit members of the security forces implicated in crimes against humanity.
It is only by rigorous, free and independent monitoring on all sides in Colombia, to which human rights groups provide a courageous and unique contribution, that impunity will be challenged and that a climate of respect for peace and for human rights will be created.
Mr President, as the last speaker said, the brutal killing of this human rights activist is unacceptable, and the fact that the government there seems totally unwilling to do anything to protect the lives of its citizens is appalling.
The strategy of the government is completely unacceptable.
Parliament also has to insist that the Council and Commission must do more than just send recommendations: they have to state clearly that the Colombian government puts into danger the relations between the EU and Colombia.
As there is a human rights violation suspension clause in cooperation agreements, we should think about sanctions.
The EU Member States present at the Human Rights Commission in Geneva this month should take a clear position in order to undermine the material profits of those who help to undermine the lives of defenders of human rights, trade union groups and environmentalists.
We really have to do something more than just adopting resolutions.
Mr President, we have received petitions from non-governmental organizations who work on the spot in Colombia and they tell us that 1 900 people were killed between October 1996 and March 1997.
Moreover, there is no doubt - according to our friends in the NGOs who work there, in farmers' organizations and in human rights organizations among others - that there is total impunity, and that the paramilitary groups are responsible for 76 % of the murders there.
We have also received a note from the Colombian Embassy informing us of the creation of a peace council in Colombia.
The fact is that Nicaragua cannot possibly meet the interest of capital repayments on its debt in the long term, and its commitments are almost double the 20 % of export earnings set as a ceiling by the World Bank in its highly-indebted countries initiative.
Earlier this year I wrote to the British Foreign Office to ask that Nicaragua should be included in the heavily-indebted poor countries initiative, particularly in view of Nicaragua's success in meeting structural adjustment targets, and to ask that this should be pressed at the Consultative Group meeting in April this year.
Our resolution states that 38 % of development cooperation is used to pay the external debt.
Nicaragua is one of the poorest countries and it has the highest per capita debt in the world.
Nevertheless, we believe, when discussing democracies with such energy and Latin American democracies in particular, that democracy will not be possible if, as both the leaders of the government and the opposition told us, 70 % of the population in Nicaragua lives in absolute poverty and there is 50 % unemployment, without any aid or subsidies.
As long as 50 % of the population is unemployed and does not receive any assistance, and as long as 70 % of the population experiences such extreme poverty and the country has such a high level of external debt, democracy there will be purely nominal.
Anyone who has been there knows that there is massive potential there; anyone who has been there knows that the people there are precious and we should do everything in our power to help the Nicaraguans out of this situation, especially under the leadership of its current president.
I am not saying that it should be written off completely as that would be wrong but we should do all we can to give the Nicaraguans the opportunity to actually build up their country, to develop the great resources that exist there - and these are first and foremost human resources - and, above all, to pursue policies that are consistent with this country's great cultural Spanish tradition.
Mr President, capitalist, oligarchic families and romantic, revolutionary Marxist elites have impoverished Nicaragua.
There are over 500 political prisoners in Cuba, and yet this Parliament continues to flirt with the líder maximo from a completely misplaced feeling of solidarity.
If Havana puts it a little bit more effort into it, it will actually manage to join the Lomé Convention with the 500 prisoners still behind bars.
Small wonder the voters have no confidence in this Parliament, which is highly selective in its judgement of human rights violations.
North Korea Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think we simply have to recognize that a massive human tragedy is taking place in North Korea.
It is simply a tragedy beyond understanding that at a time when there are food surpluses throughout the world, a people, and in particular small children and elderly people, have to suffer a famine which need not have arisen in the first place if the regime had simply been open about its internal problems.
The North Korean government will eventually have to allow a delegation to enter the country to investigate the extent of the famine and find the best way of helping the people in the country, not only in the large cities but also in the countryside and in the remote regions, as the emergency may be even worse there than in the showpiece regions which the North Korean government is always inviting us to visit.
I also believe that the Commission - and I hope, Commissioner, that the Commission sees this as we do - along with the Member States should provide additional food aid for North Korea and increase assistance for medical care for children and elderly people.
Mr President, we are going to help North Korea.
At the end of February the North Korean News Agency announced that, even with the daily cereal ration cut to a starvation ration of 100 grammes per person per day, cereals would be completely exhausted by the middle of this month.
Already prior to this the UN figures suggested that 17 % of the children in North Korea were suffering from malnutrition.
Fertilizer production is down by 60 %, which means that less food is produced and round the vicious circle goes again.
The Foreign Affairs, Energy and Budgets Committees are currently in the process of preparing a joint report on the KEDO project, in which the European Union is participating with Japan, South Korea and the Americans in helping provide two nuclear reactors to generate power for North Korea.
Mr President, once again we are discussing North Korea here in the European Parliament.
The situation is more than serious.
The North Korean committee for the restoration of food losses has said that current stocks of cereals are going to be exhausted in the middle of March, in other words, this weekend.
The Green group wants the construction of new nuclear power stations through KEDO to be stopped, or at least suspended temporarily until it has been possible to relieve the acute human catastrophe in North Korea.
The Green group supports the text of the joint resolution.
The floods of 1995 and 1996 certainly worsened the structural shortages being caused by the political, economic and social regime of North Korea.
I would like the Commission to keep us informed with regard to the initiatives it is taking both to help the United Nations intervene rapidly on behalf of the civil population affected and to break with this logic of collective suicide to which the sinister North Korean regime has committed its people.
The Commission therefore needs to block any aid to Congo not intended for humanitarian aid or the development of the weaker sectors of society until the situation changes in that country.
It is the case in Congo-Brazzaville, it was and is the case in Luanda, in Angola, it is the case in the former autonomous region of Kabinda.
Although a peace process in Angola is taking place for the outside world to see, insiders know - as the Portuguese Member of another political persuasion assured me only two hours ago - that the government leader is preparing for a large-scale offensive to destroy the official opposition for good.
As far as I know a Lomé country is only eligible for EU assistance if no more than 2 % of its budget is allocated to arms.
Commissioner, could you check scrupulously whether a country like Angola, which is buying so many weapons, is complying with the Lomé Convention, and could you check whether the EU money is benefiting all people of Angola, not merely the elite.
Let us hope that, whilst the authoritarian regime in Brazzaville is still in power, the European Commission is prepared to stop all humanitarian aid, except for the aid which goes to the very poorest.
Jamaica This is a very interesting situation, Mr President.
If a protocol is optional, the Jamaican government must have thought, then we can leave it voluntarily.
Mr President, thank God that Parliament debates the death penalty time and again, in most cases even unanimously, but not always, I am sorry to say.
I am convinced that we should be consistent in our opposition to the death penalty here in Parliament but we should not be too quick to condemn when we should actually be putting our own house in order.
Syria Mr President, about a month ago I received a delegation of Lebanese men and women in my office in Brussels who were clearly in a distressed state.
They were men and women with relatives who had been abducted from their homes or offices and taken, apparently, to Syria where they had disappeared without trace.
In one or two cases the families knew more or less the whereabouts of those who had been abducted.
It is one of the characteristics perhaps of the European Parliament that we are able to highlight or raise the profile of cases of this sort and that is the main purpose of this resolution which has been tabled in my name and also on behalf of the European People's Party.
The Commission strongly condemns this act and notes the decision to set up a special committee within the Fiscalía general de la Nación in order to investigate this murder.
It also formally calls on the Colombian government to put all the necessary means in place to identify those responsible for this intolerable crime and to refer them to the courts for punishment.
The Commission fully shares Parliament's concerns, Mrs Lenz, regarding the development of the situation within Colombia which, as you said, has continued to deteriorate over the last few months.
Human rights in Colombia must be tackled not only with words but also with actions, Mrs González Álvarez.
The Commission is also convinced that any initiative aimed at isolating the country would only have the consequence of increasing the violence.
This is why the Commission is providing significant support to the strengthening of the rule of law and its efforts are three-fold in this respect.
Secondly, the Commission supports the work of NGOs.
Colombia is considered a priority for resource allocation within the budget line "Democratization and human rights in Latin America' .
Many initiatives are currently being carried out, in cooperation with local NGOs.
Thirdly and finally, the Commission is also currently studying the possibility of providing special aid to the Colombian government with the aim of improving the way in which its legal institutions operate.
Let me turn now to Nicaragua, whose difficulties seem to be of a more economic nature rather than relating to human rights in the strict sense.
Nicaragua's problems therefore fall more within my own sphere of competence.
In three years, Nicaragua's foreign debt has fallen from ECU 10 billion to 5.5 billion.
The Commission shares the concerns of the House regarding the effects of such indebtedness on economic activity.
Nicaragua could thus continue along its rediscovered path of growth, which has occurred only in the last three years, after fifteen years of decline due to the armed conflict.
With regard to North Korea, the Commission shares Parliament's concerns regarding the gravity of the humanitarian and food situation in North Korea and this, Mr Hory, is of course independent of the judgement which can and must be made on the way in which the country is governed.
I can assure you that the Commission is doing its utmost to encourage the North Korean authorities to move in this direction.
A declaration by the Presidency of the European Union on 3 November 1997 set out the Union's position regarding the bloody conflict which has engulfed Congo and regarding the resulting new political regime.
The Commission's action falls within this framework, following developments in the situation closely and paying particular attention to respect for the directions which were set by the National Forum for Unity, Democracy and Reconstruction.
The search for lasting peace and national reconciliation assumes, Mrs Aelvoet, the return of a regime legitimized by free, fair and transparent elections.
This precedent could also cause similar action on the part of other states in the region who are current signatories of the said protocol.
The European Union has followed the issue of Lebanese prisoners detained in Syria closely.
The relevant working group within the Council had been asking for a report on the subject from the European Union's Head of Mission in Beirut since 1997.
A settlement of the issue of Lebanese prisoners occurred on 3 March this year, with an unofficial declaration of the forthcoming liberation of the prisoners in the Beirut daily newspaper "El Nahar' .
On 5 March, after a telephone conversation between Presidents Hraoui and Hafez el Assad, 121 prisoners were freed at Masna, on the Syrian-Lebanese border.
This leaves - depending on your source - between 25 and 33 people suspected of breaches of national security.
Although accused of collaboration with Israel, Major Ketel Hayeck benefited from this liberation but remains charged in Lebanon, in connection with the trial regarding the assassination of the Prime Minister, Rachid Karamé.
The Commission will continue to follow this issue with the utmost attention and, of course, will take it into account within the framework of the impending negotiations of the cooperation or association agreement that was earlier mentioned.
The President is occupying his post, his seat.
Meanwhile we have seen that the military action, in particular that of a number of neighbouring countries and especially Nigeria's, was not without bloodshed.
The missionaries' statement was very simple: they said that they had suffered for a few days, but that the people of Sierra Leone were still suffering and were suffering much more.
President Kabbah has an extremely difficult task ahead of him.
Mr President, I am sure I am the only Member of this Parliament who was once an officer in the armed forces of Sierra Leone.
That of Major Johnny Paul Koroma is only the latest.
So we welcome the return of President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah.
General Abacha made a speech in Freetown this week.
The European Parliament should use its best endeavours to see that Abacha's troops are withdrawn and that both humanitarian and military aid are given to enable President Kabbah to re-establish Sierra Leone's independence.
Humanitarian aid is now moving toward Bo and Kenema as well as towards the capital.
What we are now seeing, though, is another example of the new wave of re-democratization, which is something close to all our hearts in Parliament.
Mr President, President Kabbah's return to Sierra Leone is a positive fact of great importance.
Firstly, we need to resume political negotiations for national reconciliation, which were suddenly interrupted by General Koroma's coup, and we need to do this on the basis of the Conakry and Abidjan Agreements, because the military tension of today certainly cannot form the basis for a political reconstruction of the country.
Mr President, the political situation in Sierra Leone is becoming more favourable with the return of President Kabbah.
Throughout the conflict, the Commission has continued to support humanitarian aid programmes for health and nutrition through its partners on the ground, by targeting its action towards the most vulnerable groups.
The volume of aid provided by ECHO now stands at ECU 3.8 million in one year.
It was not physically possible to do more than this because, given the conditions noted by some of you, it was completely impossible to send the necessary staff to distribute the aid.
The Commission and its humanitarian partners have now reoriented part of their current action in order to respond to the most urgent needs.
In other words, Mr Whitehead, it is reviewing its rehabilitation programmes following the military intervention which took place on 8 February, which put an end to the embargo on entry into Sierra Leone and which enabled the resumption of movement of equipment, provision of staple foods and medical products.
On 10 February, the Commission allocated ECU 1.9 million to the financing of "seeds and tools' programmes in order to ensure that the local population are able to harvest sufficient agricultural produce over the coming months.
Existing programmes have enabled the flow of refugees into neighbouring countries to be absorbed without too much difficulty.
Finally, Mr Pettinari, let me clarify for you that cooperation with Nigeria has been suspended since 1995 and you know as well as I that many people have said loud and clear that Nigeria has exceeded its role and should not have intervened with military force in this conflict.
Mr President, I would like to make a similar request in view of the fact that the Commissioner considered it extremely important to be present during the debate.
The Members' requests and the points of order they have raised are more what might be expected in a statement by the Commission.
However, in general this concerned the way in which the organizers had chosen the tour operators who would sell the tickets, or the granting of a monopoly to a certain vendor, as in Italy in 1990.
The Commission therefore intervened with regard to the sale of tickets in respect of the choice of stockists, in this instance the tour operators.
It was soon noted, even by the national associations and leagues, that the number of tickets was extremely limited.
Following this, the Commission contacted the organizers in January to ask them for an explanation.
Approximately 21 % will go to national associations and 5.4 % to tour operators.
You then have to take into account other ventures - for example, sporting movements, youth groups and others who are also participating in the organization - which will receive 4.3 %.
Within the framework of the action the Commission has undertaken, we have had discussions with the organizing committee to see to what extent the tickets that are still available, about 160 000 in all, could be made available to buyers who have not up to now had access due to the limits imposed - the need for a telephone number and address in France - so that they may obtain a minimum of compensation.
We have therefore asked that these 160 000 tickets be used as compensation.
Firstly, I dare to hope that organizers of this kind of sporting event will in future agree to consider, jointly with the Commission and well before the sale of tickets commences, not only the strictly commercial aspects as on previous occasions such as the issue of tour operators, but also aspects concerned with a fair and non-discriminatory allocation of the tickets.
My second observation is that I hope the organizers and sports organizations will in the future more willingly accept that it is better to discuss these problems with the relevant Community authorities than to challenge continually the authority of the European Commission and to continue to refer back to a particular government or minister to deal with problems of competition.
Allow me one last thought, on a completely personal level.
For my part, I have no problem in obtaining tickets.
Mr President, this really is a very sorry tale, though I want to thank you and the Commissioner for at least allowing us to have that statement before we had the debate.
I certainly note the Commissioner's words very carefully, namely that this system is not fair and has been discriminatory.
I am sorry to have to say to the Commissioner that I do not think the Commission can entirely wash its hands of responsibility for the way this situation has developed.
The Commission has responsibility to exercise those powers which it has quite clearly and lamentably failed to exercise up to now.
The world championship is of interest to people all over the world and certainly throughout Europe, and the number of seats that has been made available to European football fans is derisory.
The suggestion that to get tickets they have to give an address in France makes one seriously wonder who was awake when that proposal was going through.
The Commission cannot simply come to us this afternoon an say it is a sorry tale but it is taking no further action.
Mr President, I wish to say to the Commissioner that Liberals in this House are deeply disappointed with his statement today.
The organizers have put national restrictions on ticket sales in breach of Article 85 of the Treaties.
They are abusing a dominant market position in breach of Article 86.
The Commission was warned of this in June of last year in a letter from Professor Weatherill at Oxford University.
You, Commissioner, as the person responsible on behalf of Europe, have often compared your role with that of a referee, who has to take decisions, often in difficult areas, and who is therefore, depending on the circumstances, sympathetic or unsympathetic.
This is not Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom or Italy against France.
This is a question of elementary respect for European rules.
The future is, amongst other things, the European Nations' Cup in 2000, organized by Belgium and the Netherlands.
I have been a member of the Scotland Travel Club for eight years.
Mr President, there have certainly been delays in the Commission's initiative on this problem.
Nevertheless, I want to give my full support to the action being taken by the Commission and the Commissioner at this stage, because they are actually trying to remedy an unacceptable situation.
It would appear that solution has now disappeared and that the French authorities are now longer prepared to offer extra tickets in compensation to those people who have been disadvantaged by what is a clear breach of European Community law, namely Articles 85 and 86.
I do not believe that the French authorities have sold the 22.3 % of those tickets available for direct sales.
Madam President, it is clear that the Commission has lacked vigilance in this matter.
The 50 000 tickets that you mentioned, Commissioner, these are a drop in the ocean.
There are 166 federations, which is the equivalent of only around ten tickets per federation.
Madam President, we believe the concern over having to ensure the sacred principles of free competition and having to ensure the compatibility of initiatives with the rules of the internal market is the main reason for the spiralling increase in prices and offers in relation to the sale of tickets for the forthcoming 1998 World Cup to be held in France.
In our opinion, however, irrespective of the real or merely alleged price increases, the multiplication, times 15, of the prices applied by the travel agencies, the only agencies authorized to sell the World Cup package, are the direct consequence of the persistence of the Commission which is opposed to the establishment of a single retailer in each Member State.
Ensuring the principles of free competition, together with the fact of being able to overcome the accusation of abuse of a dominant position, should not be an obstacle to granting authorization to a single retailer in each Member State, specifically to prevent the emergence of the black market and, in particular, to prevent the monopolization of sales by the tourist agencies, thus giving all Community citizens the possibility of enjoying a sports event that is becoming increasingly more popular.
This week two tickets for the World Cup sold for £19 000 in Glasgow.
As other members have said, it is up to the Commission to take strong action.
Madam President, the cultural, the social and indeed the commercial importance of sport is, I believe, beyond dispute.
I therefore find it completely incomprehensible that the organizing committee for such an event uses a discriminatory ticket distribution system that gives preference to the citizens of its own country.
At the same time, sport, which already leads a rather modest existence in relation to its importance within the European Union, is being done a great disservice and a wedge is being driven between citizens of the Union.
In short, I can only regret that, if I have understood the Commissioner correctly, there is no possibility of straightening out the situation pro praeterito .
I read yesterday in the papers that a minister - also in charge of sport - was going to come and see President Santer, my colleague Pádraig Flynn and myself to tell us that the Commission was no longer respecting the Bosman ruling of the Court.
When it comes to tackling the black market, Mr Monfils, please be assured that we will do all we can!
In principle, national organizations can also be contacted.
You have told us you could not take on the World Sports Federation but you did not tell us whether you would take it on if you were allowed to!
Just as well, after listening to Hughie McMahon.
Mr Killilea, the debate is now closed.
Before the vote on Nicaragua: Madam President, I wish to make a point of order.
Yesterday we voted on the composition of the debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that Mr Posselt breaks into spontaneous applause at the very mention of my name, which shows that contrary to all expectations he is a clever Member.
The whole thing was made worse - we shall have to reflect on this in general in the part-session - by the fact that Commissioner Gradin had to make her speech in an atmosphere which - with respect, Madam President - was more reminiscent of a cattle market than the dignified proceedings of the European Parliament.
I have three basic comments on Mr Bontempi's report.
On the one hand, we are confronted by a supranational body, the European Union, while on the other hand, the nation states realize that they are losing national sovereignty as the European Union gains in importance.
However, the national governments have a certain defence mechanism which is expressed in the strongest terms where the nation states can best demonstrate their sovereignty, namely in their monopoly of power, particularly in terms of the police and the justice.
In this respect, Mr Bontempi's report is a major step forward in the debate.
In the interests of improving cooperation, in the interests of combating organized crime efficiently, we have to have a debate about where national sovereignty should be set aside.
In any event we have to abandon it where the means to combat organized crime are lacking, where citizens - and not only in Brussels - are no longer protected and the Union's interests are harmed.
The EU must take steps towards judicial cooperation more quickly than before, not just to protect the Union's financial interests but, more importantly, in the interest of our citizens' safety.
The intergovernmentalist approach for the last 50 years was exemplified by the Council of Europe.
This morning Mrs Gradin, in her initial response, made it quite clear that framework decisions should be the priority instrument in future for making progress.
I say this with great emphasis because it is the only way finally to involve also the countries of central and eastern Europe.
If this Europe, the Europe which we have been building for the last 40 years, cannot make more progress in justice and police cooperation how can we expect countries which, for 40 years, have been suffering from dictatorship, lack of protection of human rights and lack of institution-building to really come in with us and make the progress which we jointly want?
There is no way forward except for the national parliaments and the European Parliament to make more efforts to work jointly in this area.
The political will which is so often lacking in making progress should be made clear, both on the national side and on the parliamentary side, in this House.
The European Court of Justice, which has been the pearl of the institutions, still has an inadequate role in this whole process.
The Court can only give preliminary rulings if members so choose and even then it cannot really give an interpretation of the Treaty.
Madam President, let me begin by saying that a majority in the Green group supports Mr Bontempi's report apart from three points.
The second point concerns the request to the governments of the Member States to refrain from derogations and to comply with the conventions.
The third point concerns the proposal to abolish the principle that a crime should be indictable in two countries.
Madam President, I would first of all like to say that I fully support Mr Schulz' preliminary comments.
And with regard to judicial cooperation this is precisely the case.
In order to fight transnational crime, it is clear that we need greater cooperation, albeit simplified, in the legal sphere, particularly in order to facilitate the work of the judicial authorities in the different Member States.
It is very important that judicial authorities should be able to relate directly to each other, and that the Rules of Procedure are simplified in terms of the exchange of information, documents and so on.
Madam President, the increasing levels of international crime make it necessary to consider ways of putting a stop to this trend.
There is increasingly a European single market for the free movement of stolen goods: cars, for example; illegal services - prostitution; dirty capital waiting to be laundered in other Member States; illegal immigrants smuggled in by organized criminal gangs.
Europol has been a success, but at a very small scale.
What distresses people in the European Union is that in spite of the single market, in spite of the European Union, cross-border crime and cross-border criminals continue to escape their punishment.
What irritates European Union citizens are cases like that of Keith Cottingham, in the United Kingdom, a suspected letter-bomb murderer - accused of murdering a housewife, Barbara Holmes - who, for the last 14 years has been living in Spain.
European Union citizens will not take seriously a single market or a single judicial area while that sort of thing continues to happen.
I refer in this case to the transnational abduction of children by their parents and also the increasing problem of transnational abduction of children by criminal means.
The fact that we are dealing here very often with delicate family matters is very often used by local police forces as an excuse not to become involved in these cases - that these are family matters and should be left to the lawyers to sort out.
For that reason I would like to take this opportunity, even though I know the subject is probably more appropriately dealt with in the report on marital cooperation in legal issues which we will be dealing with at the next part-session.
The creation of a single market for the free movement of goods, services, capital and people turn out to have a darker side: increased transnational crime.
It is a pleasant experience to find in Mr Bontempi's report a realistic, clear tone.
The judicial area touches the heart of the Member States' sovereignty.
Individual criminal justice systems, and how punishment is imposed and enforced, have over the centuries developed individually in each Member State.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
It can of course continue to use, depending on the topic, either secret or open votes, but we believe that the European members, to whom we are directing this, should urge their colleagues in the ACP countries to implement this change in regulation.
This in turn gives us the opportunity to discuss its decisions here in Parliament as well and to draw the appropriate conclusions from them.
I should like to refer to the general report which occupied us in two sittings last year.
All of this can also be seen as part of the subject that likewise kept us busy last year and will continue to do so, namely the future of the Lomé Convention.
Mr Robles Piquer's report also contains proposals which should be welcomed so that some constructive work can be done.
There is now great unanimity on this point but the practical activities leave a lot to be desired.
We can convince ourselves of this on a regular basis when we spend some time in ACP countries and take a look around.
We have included this in all the areas that have been discussed, ranging from environmental issues, via issues of preventive health care and economic development to human rights.
In the meantime some very intensive consultation is taking place to find ways of applying human rights as women's rights, of understanding democratic rights in such a way that the equal participation of women is carried through in all of society's decision-making processes - in our ACP partner countries as well.
We are often criticized by the media for these Joint Assembly meetings in developing countries but I would strongly suggest you can learn more in a week on the ground looking at projects than you can learn in a year in a committee in Brussels.
It stresses the importance of our ACP partners having a real input into any future organization post-2000.
The report highlights one area of the Joint Assembly meetings that does need improving and that is Question Time to the Council and the Commission.
The report also looks at the location of our last Assembly.
The future of the Joint Assembly is vital to the linkage between the European Union and the ACP developing nations.
This is an excellent report and deserves unanimous support.
I have to stress several points made in the report, particularly the fact that it confirms that the enhancement of women's rights and their adequate participation in all decision-making and political processes form an essential premise for making progress in the field of development, which implies, among other things, literacy measures and access to training and basic health services.
The recommendation made to the Commission to urgently bring forward the project studying the creation of a service responsible for coordinating aid for third countries, mainly comprising the ACP countries, is of particular importance.
The working party has submitted a draft resolution, approved unanimously by the Joint Assembly which met in Lomé on 30 October 1997, on the ACP-European Union cooperation, in view of the Conference of the Parties to the UN framework agreement on climate changes held in Kyoto in December 1997.
The working party is still endeavouring to assess the effects and social and economic implications of the climate changes and the rise in sea level on the small ACP island states and propose a strategy to increase the knowledge at international level of the dangers such changes may involve.
The climatic variability and the rise in sea level cause the erosion of the coasts and the small ACP island states are particularly concerned because they are far more vulnerable than the others at economic, social and cultural level.
That is why this working party has dedicated particular attention to this.
That is why I admire the courage of the rapporteur to offer criticism, difficult criticism in a Joint Assembly.
We should get rid of block voting in the Joint Assembly.
This practice has meant that we have not been able to accept the rather sharp and appropriate resolutions on Nigeria, Congo, and Togo.
I hope, Madam President, that the Joint Assembly can be strengthened through procedural modifications, and I can also see that, with the growing significance political dialogue will be accorded in the ACP over the coming years, strengthening the Joint Assembly will become an issue for discussion, and that this will be achieved.
There is a danger that the one thing which keeps some of the ACP countries involved with the Assembly might be seen by them as a threat to their participation.
It is rarely used and with the secret ballot which we have introduced, perhaps we should leave things as they are.
We had a very useful meeting in Ghana with the Speaker of the parliament and the Clerk to the House.
They asked what the European Parliament could do to help the Clerk - the Secretary-General of the parliament - and the members to become more expert in the procedures, which had rather fallen away.
Madam President, the most striking point in this motion for a resolution is the difference of opinion in the Joint Assembly between the Members of the European Union and those of the ACP on human rights.
In order to prevent a small minority in the ACP group from vetoing the condemnation of a country, the rapporteur calls for a study to be conducted into possible alternatives to the current voting system in the joint Assembly.
The decision taken by the Council, backing the initiatives agreed by the Monetary Fund and by the Development and Cooperation Committees of the European Bank, clearly shows the obvious desire of the international financial community to bring the debt of the ACP countries to an economically more acceptable level.
The meetings held by the Joint Assembly last year, in Brussels and in Lomé, emphasized that only a consolidation of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and a responsible use of resources will finally lead to the success of the development policy pursued within the scope of the ACP-EU cooperation.
Madam President, I wish to thank Mr Robles Piquer for emphasizing, yet again, the concept of partnership and how this is central to all our work in the Joint Assembly and, in particular, drawing attention in a very highprofile way to the system of voting that is in practice.
Mr Blokland has made a very important point that we should not in any way give the impression that we want to impose views that are very specific European views.
There was a 97 % turnout in that election.
Let us be very clear to maintain this partnership when we talk about human rights, democracy and self-determination.
The more we make that clear in our work in the Assembly, the more we will achieve a real partnership.
I can assure you that the Commission has taken this dimension into account in the direction of relations between the European Union and ACP countries in the future.
I am, of course, thinking of the Junker report.
This demand must rightly be considered and supported.
In future relations between the ACP countries and the European Union, the Commission, as you know, is emphasizing the need to strengthen the political dimension of this partnership, by highlighting the importance of developing a true political dialogue between the two parties.
This political dialogue will consolidate respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law.
For the Commission, the framework for this dialogue must be the ACP-EU Joint Assembly sessions.
Proof of this is in the active participation of ACP representatives during the debates on particular countries at the last Joint Assembly in Lomé in October 1997.
The content of the debates was strengthened by this, whether it was a discussion on the situation in Togo or Nigeria.
It is a question of confirming that this institution, unique in its kind, represents both the people of the European Union and of the ACP countries.
Similarly, the Commission understands the European Parliament's reservations regarding the voting system of two separate electoral colleges used by the Joint Assembly for sensitive issues.
The Commission will thus support all efforts to ensure that the results of votes from this Assembly truly reflect the conclusions of a joint, open and constructive debate between European and ACP members.
The Economic and Social Council is currently considering ways of intensifying contacts between the Joint Assembly and the economic, social and cultural players within the ACP countries.
We do not want to challenge the principle of holding two plenary sessions per year, but we should strengthen the role of national parliaments in relation to their public opinion.
My colleague Joâo de Deus Pinheiro often says that democracy is a process.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Let me explain the problem we now have to deal with in this report with regard to the Czech steel industry.
About 12 % of all steel imports into the European Union come from the Czech Republic.
On the other hand, the conditions imposed by the European Union on its own steel production call for compliance with strict emission standards.
These differences in environmental legislation between the European Union on the one hand, and the Czech Republic and other countries in central and eastern Europe on the other, as well as the granting of national subsidies can therefore bring about a widespread undercutting of existing steel prices in the European Union and result in an unfair competitive advantage for Czech steel which would inevitably lead to further anti-dumping measures by the European Union.
Therefore, at the Essen Summit in 1994 and again at the Cannes European Council in June 1995, it was proposed in the White Paper on preparation of the associated countries of central and eastern Europe for integration into the Internal Market of the Union to put an end to this conflict simply by implementing in these countries parts of the Community legislation relating to concentrations, anti-trust legislation, state monopolies and the state aids we are discussing here when their laws are being approximated to those of the European Union.
In the Commission's proposal for a regulation before us today, residual customs duties applicable to the Czech Republic being now practically non-existent, state aids will only be acceptable to the European Union if they comply with their own rules as provided in Articles 92 to 94 of the EC Treaty on the prohibition of state aid.
In other words, the Czech framework legislation in this area must be adapted and to all intents and purposes converted to that of the European Union.
The European Union's state aid monitoring authority, the Commission, and the Czech Republic's monitoring authority, the Czech Ministry of Finance, are to work together in close consultation.
Parliament's approval will enable their final adoption by the European Union-Czech Republic Association Council and I am delighted with your report.
I must clarify, however, that for strictly legal reasons, as far as the Commission is concerned Article 113, remains the appropriate basis.
These implementing rules are a precondition for the harmonious development of exchanges between the Czech Republic and the Community.
That is why the Commission is insisting on the importance of a rapid adoption of these rules by the Association Council.
As the Commission's opinions on the eastern and central European countries' requests for accession show, there remains a great deal to be done in these Associated Countries in order to improve the monitoring of state aid.
In its Agenda 2000 proposal, the Commission also highlights the importance of competition policy in the Associated Countries throughout the pre-accession stage.
The Commission will ensure that the PHARE programme for 1998 and 1999 includes aid enabling the Czech authorities to monitor state aid and to come into line completely with European standards within a few years.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Silguy.
