Resumption of session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 February 1997.
At times such as these, when unemployment figures have reached record levels in some Member States, those principles need to be reiterated; we need to take a stand against exclusion and avoid any backsliding in the timid progress achieved.
The proposals contained in the text which the Irish Presidency prepared are a very important step in this direction.
The proposal for a Council Directive on the burden of proof in sex-discrimination cases is the cornerstone of the new system of legal protection.
Although the European Parliament is the institution with the highest percentage of women in its higher administrative grades, the figure is barely 20 %.
Efficient administration cannot allow this inequality.
Everyone in this Chamber knows that Parliament aroused the anger of the French authorities by the resolution it adopted on 20 February against racism and xenophobia.
In fact, however, the French Government compounded its error with a more serious one when the French Minister for Foreign Affairs saw fit to say that our Parliament was unworthy of the name of Parliament.
After all, the incident in itself was nothing.
I can only endorse your words, Mr President, and say, on behalf of my group, that we are in full agreement with you on that.
Thank you very much, Mr Roth.
That, Mr President, is the kind of question, a troubling one in every way, which must be asked in the wake of this incident, and I should be very grateful if you would refer the matter to the Bureau and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, so that we can have a procedure for topical and urgent debates which will not give rise to this kind of controversy and will not involve you in another incident of this kind.
Thank you very much, Mr Nordmann, but I would remind you that any Group is entitled to raise this question with the Conference of Presidents if it thinks that is what is needed.
To send a letter to 626 Members by courier, when we all have fax machines at our offices in both Brussels and Strasbourg, is a bit of a waste of money, surely.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I am very pleased to answer your question.
Nevertheless, I would remind all those who make ringing declarations on the importance of Parliament's activities that this famous - and umpteenth - resolution on racism and xenophobia was adopted on that memorable Thursday afternoon by 106 votes to 101, and that in actual fact, by expressing its opinion as it does on Thursday afternoons about a more and more varied and less and less carefully considered range of subjects, the European Parliament undermines its own credibility.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I am not going to comment on the substance of your speech, which I respect as I would any other.
I must, however, call your attention to the fact that there is no provision in our Rules of Procedure authorizing Parliament, or anyone else, to declare texts inadmissible in substance.
Mr President, I should like to speak on Item 16 of the Minutes, ' Genetically modified maize' .
During our last part-session, the various oral questions relating to this subject were put back to a later date, specifically the present part-session, according to the Members present, at any event.
I therefore believe it to be essential, Mr President, for the Minutes to show why a postponement of this debate was requested.
The final version of the agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed; the following amendments have been proposed or incorporated: Monday: I suggest, in agreement with the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, that we reverse the order of the two reports by that Committee.
Are there any comments? (The order of business was adopted) Tuesday: The Green Group has asked for the joint debate on the six oral questions to the Commission on geneticallymodified maize, which was postponed last Friday, 21 February, to be added to the agenda either for Tuesday evening or for Thursday afternoon.
I would mention that the Conference of Presidents has decided to include this topic in the April part-session.
So I would ask you once again to arrange for a roll-call vote on our request, so that this extremely important matter can be debated during the present week.
Mr President, I want to say that we agree to the request made by the spokesman for the Socialist Group.
I put to the vote the Socialist Group's request to postpone until April the debate on the oral question on the crisis in the rice sector. (Parliament agreed to the request) Mr President, I should like to take advantage of this unanimous vote, which has altered Friday's agenda in a sensible way, to ask you and the Conference of Presidents to review a situation that has remained unchanged at the last three or four part-sessions, whereby agricultural topics have regularly been taken on Fridays, often as the last item on the agenda.
Thank you very much, Mr Santini.
The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in the absence of a European consensus the Schengen countries are putting in place their own measures to guarantee the right of the free movement of persons and the right of security of their residents is, in my view, a good thing.
In practice, the governments are imposing more and more conditions on the free movement of persons.
According to the Schengen annual report, the Schengen information system has been used principally as a database on undesirable aliens.
Secondly, this Parliament has frequently complained about the lack of parliamentary and judicial control.
It is clear that the Irish proposals on Schengen matters, and still less the Dutch proposals, do not match our requirements.
Thank you very much, Mrs Van Lanker.
Mr President, Mr President of the Schengen ministerial committee, ladies and gentlemen, first a clarification to remove a misunderstanding: Schengen is not part of the European Union, however much we may deplore the fact.
Secondly, Schengen is aimed towards the abolition of checks on persons at the internal borders and at the strengthening of checks on persons at the external frontiers - at bringing freedom and security into balance.
Schengen has an important role to play in paving the way to the free movement of persons and the abolition of the internal borders.
In the committee we voted against the Van Lancker report.
When, on 14 June 1985, the founding countries of the Schengen area signed the agreement that bears that name, they certainly had in mind Montesquieu's words 'political freedom for a citizen is that peace of mind that comes from the opinion each man has of his own safety' .
France, in turn, invoked the safeguard clause contained in Article 2 of the Convention, partly because of the failings of the Schengen Information System and the slackness regarding migration flows, and partly because of the weakness or even recklessness of certain Member States with regard to drugs.
That is why my group will be unable to vote for this report, without certain amendments, although I do share some of the rapporteur's concerns.
Mr President, first I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report she is presenting here today.
It was concerned with the high density of controls at the outer borders and with the so-called compensatory measures at the internal borders.
Do we want a Europe of governments or a Europe of citizens?
With Schengen, we're getting bogged down in intergovernmental matters, we are ratifying an inequality, a form of discrimination as between the citizens of the Union and, even more so, towards citizens of third countries.
First, because the Schengen Agreements are external to the Union.
So what we have here is one of those cases of interference by the European Parliament which, if anything, are harmful to its image, the more so in that the arguments put forward in the motion for a resolution seem to us to be very far removed from the feelings of the public and of most of the governments involved in the Intergovernmental Conference.
One might legitimately wonder whether the Schengen Agreements, which have often been described as an experimental laboratory, can be extended to the whole of the Union.
Well, there are at least two inescapable lessons which the European Parliament is failing to learn, though fortunately the governments of the Member States seem rather more aware of them.
These accompanying measures should be reinforced, Mr President.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all this criticism I am going to take up the cudgels on behalf of the Schengen Agreements.
Apart from the abolition of the internal borders, Schengen also of course includes improving the security of the external borders - and not just as a defence against crime, especially organized crime, but also as a defence against a second problem which weighs heavy on many European States, the problem of illegal immigration.
Overall, therefore, we are in favour of this process and we want to see it continue.
The report emphasises how well this Union operates.
The report is rather critical of the flanking measures which, as far as the Council is concerned, are prerequisites for the free movement of persons within the Schengen framework.
However, the Van Lancker report is an entirely different kettle of fish, and the future vision of Schengen that it presents is something that I cannot possibly support.
Evidently, as has been mentioned here, Schengen is a step forward towards freedom of movement and we are not going to deny that.
The report therefore seems to me to be opportune and I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the content.
We might discuss that, but in principle we should be in agreement.
I think we need to move towards greater democracy, more rights, more freedoms and, above all, without agreements between the Governments placing too much emphasis on certain problems, for example immigration.
Mr President, Mr Fischbach, making Europe into one large single market with no internal borders, simply from the commercial and economic standpoint, is a grave error.
So I see Schengen as a positive initiative, which is certainly not being used to bully the citizen, as the van Lancker report implies, but is in fact offering him a guarantee of his personal safety.
Attention is drawn to this point both in your assessment of the present functioning of the Schengen Agreements and your comments on the future.
As a result of what I said, the Executive Committee decided to send the European Parliament the first annual report on the implementation of the Schengen Agreements.
I believe that a similar initiative to inform our citizens should be undertaken on Schengen, for example to tell citizens of third countries who are resident in the Schengen states what rights the Agreements give them, in particular the right to travel - carrying their residence permits and under certain conditions - without the need for a visa.
It would seem logical, however, since Schengen is one means of ensuring the entry into force of Article 7a, for the European institutions - especially the European Parliament and the Court of Justice - to be able to operate in this field.
We must therefore continue our efforts to gain approval for the proposals we have presented to the Council on this subject.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
If we picture the information society, without any advance preparation, impacting on our present hour-glass society, where insecurity and the downward differentiation of wages are affecting more and more groups in society, then we get the effect of a huge new proletariat which has to be entertained by 'tititainment' , as they say nowadays, a petit bourgeoisie of passive users and a new nomenklatura who hold the power and are the masters of the game.
The report by the high-level group of experts suggests that the possibility exists of a more comprehensive approach.
A second central requirement of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is that the information society should be provided with a stable legal framework and that a higher degree of legal security should be guaranteed for all participants.
There is therefore a danger of a gulf appearing between the generations.
Not just the vocational aspects but also the social aspects of redeployment should be considered.
From the cultural point of view, the Green Paper does not consider the increasing use of the new technologies in national libraries, museums or photo libraries, and therefore fails to do justice to their beneficial effects on knowledge.
But we must indeed move forward in order to avoid the most negative of the possible consequences: precarious nature of new jobs, greater inequality, new monopolies, uncontrolled networks, risk of cultural uniformity, more financial speculation, etc.
I feel that in the future the Commission, in its interaction with the Council, and the European Parliament must do much more to coordinate the various policy areas.
We must be prepared also to use our structural funds and action programmes for, among other things, new pricing methodologies and new eventualities.
The Commission's Green Paper, launched at a European colloquium in Dublin at the end of September 1996, generated a debate throughout Europe on the many aspects of the information society, as also identified by the High Level Group and the Information Society Forum.
This communication will complete the Commission's action plan 'Towards a European education initiative: learning in the information society' .
The purpose of this Green Paper is to stimulate a debate, in the context of the social dialogue, on work organization as it affects teleworking.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the Commission should be congratulated for initiating a debate on the need to create a learning society in the European Union.
The White Paper provides an analysis of the challenges we face in the global economy where new technologies are radically changing the nature of work and requiring a workforce that is highly-skilled, flexible and qualified.
However, the challenges we face in Europe are even greater and we must plan to create a learning society which recognizes the modern and difficult problems and provides opportunities for all our citizens to contribute to economic and social progress.
In my report attention is given to three additional challenges: firstly, the ageing of the population of Europe; secondly, the danger of the growth in social exclusion, and, thirdly, the relatively low and, in some cases, declining level of public expenditure on education and training.
Our workforce is ageing: in ten years' time 80 % of the technology we use today will be outdated but 80 % of the workforce will be working on the basis of knowledge at least ten years old.
Yet only 7 % of the unemployed are undergoing training, and this proportion is actually decreasing.
The percentage of total public expenditure on education and training has declined in 11 out of the 15 Member States in the last 10 years.
The benefits of education and training have been well documented.
The motion for a resolution includes a number of concrete proposals in addition to those proposed by the Commission, in particular concerning lifelong learning, combating social exclusion and the development of partnerships for resourcing a learning society.
The significance of education and training, both for work and for democratic life, requires this European Union to take fundamental steps to invest in the future of all our people, young and old, and to ensure that all our programmes and all our resources are devoted towards creating a society in which all individuals have the opportunity to learn to skill and to reskill at all ages.
I say yes to a second chance, but not in a segregated system.
I believe that the European Union has done a good job here with the range of educational and mobility programmes it offers, such as LEONARDO or SOCRATES or all the programmes to be implemented in connection with the Structural Funds, such as LEADER or YOUTH START or NEW and so on.
What we need, therefore, is a package of measures from the Commission to ensure that all these barriers are pulled down as quickly as possible so that these programmes can help us to pursue an active employment market policy in the interests of those concerned.
Mr President, globalization of the economy, liberalization of the labour market and the information society, assuming, in our view, that its consequences are properly handled, are making lifelong learning a central concern for us.
The information society, which we have rightly debated, will, I believe, force the European Union to claim a steadily bigger role for itself in this field.
The European Union has a key part to play in attuning the differing education systems of the various Member States to the situation in order that Europe can be properly equipped for the world market.
This report places the accent on the Commission's giving priority to the subject of education within its agenda and considers that matters such as social exclusion and sexual equality will be greatly improved as a result of education and lifelong learning.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Commission on the quality of the proposals contained in the White Paper.
What is more, Parliament should set an example to the young people of Europe by reorganizing itself on the lines of a truly federal Europe, in which local and regional bodies have more powers, including the right to group together and negotiate agreements with regions in other Member States.
The White Paper tackles this issue both in terms of culture in general - and it is interesting that, alongside technical know-how, not only is a reappraisal and deepening awareness of the humanities taking shape, but creativeness and experimentation are also undergoing a revival - and in terms of preparation for a working life in which there will be an increasing overlap between technical skills and social attitudes, theoretical knowledge and integration in the workplace.
One question which attracted the attention of the Social Affairs Committee was that of a second chance to attend school.
The Commission's intention in publishing its White Paper was to contribute to the debate on the future of our society, especially as regards the role of education and training in the face of current social change, with particular attention being given to ways of halting the tragedy of unemployment.
It is a matter of offering European citizens common values and objectives, in particular the development of lifelong education and training.
It should be pointed out here that the Commission will very soon be submitting to the Council and Parliament the first European report on access to continuing training in the Union, which follows on from the Council's recommendation on this subject in 1993, along with the guidelines to be followed in this key area of vocational training policy in the Community.
The report will take account in particular of the suggestions which emerged from the thematic conferences organized by the Commission on the five objectives of the White Paper, and of the lessons which can be learned from the implementation of the objectives themselves.
This communication will not be limited to drawing general conclusions, but will explain - objective by objective - the difficulties which have been encountered and the lessons learned.
The Commission is to submit an interim evaluation report for each programme in 1997 and, during the first half of 1998, its proposals for the continuation of these programmes beyond their expiry in 1999.
In the evaluation report on the achievement of the White Paper's objectives, the Commission will set out guidelines for a more broadly-based implementation of these objectives.
This report and the interim evaluation reports will enable both the Council and Parliament to hold initial policy debates in late 1997 or early 1998.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Directive 92/14 stipulates that, as from 1 April 2002, the operation of what are known as Chapter 2 aeroplanes from airports in the European Union is prohibited because of their noise emissions.
In addition, the directive prohibits the use of Chapter 2 aeroplanes which are more than 25 years old and fitted with engines having a by-pass ration of less than two.
The Commission's proposal amending this directive is aimed, first and foremost, at increasing the number of exemptions.
However, the Committee on Transport wishes to go a step further and to make it possible for Member States to restrict the access of the noisiest planes.
One of them rightly makes the subleasing of a Chapter 2 aeroplane by a developing country to a company in another country impracticable.
The Committee on Transport has sharpened this stipulation up a bit.
The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote for this report and all the amendments, and hopes that the Commission and Council will accept the amendments because in our view they all conform to the spirit of the Directive - a healthy compromise between environmental protection, or noise abatement in this instance, technological feasibility and economic consequences for genuine developing nations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I speak in this debate principally to mention a problem at a regional airport which is a perfect example of the problems that can arise in connection with this matter.
The directive therefore laid down the conditions under which aeroplanes entered in the registers of developing countries and operated by air carriers in those countries may be exempted from the provisions governing withdrawal from service, until the final deadline of 31 March 2002.
The main purpose of the Commission's current proposal is therefore to update the list of aeroplanes in the annex to the directive, so as to avoid any legal uncertainty regarding the situation of aeroplanes from developing countries.
As far as aeroplanes from developing countries are concerned, it is essential to make the text as rigorous as possible, in order to avoid any abuse of the exemptions for aeroplanes currently operated by air carriers established in certain developing countries.
Mr President, I have listened carefully to the Commissioner but I have not heard a reply to the rapporteur's question about whether airports, casu quo the Member States, have the scope and the right to keep Chapter 2 aeroplanes out if they are finding it difficult to stay within the noise norms.
Three amendments, Nos 1, 2 and 6, seek to allow the Member States to impose limitations on the operation of Chapter 2 aeroplanes in individual airports.
Since the purpose of Directive 92/14/EEC is global harmonization, taking account of the technical, economic and environmental impact, the Member States are not allowed to impose more restrictive measures, for example a total ban on the operation of a Chapter 2 aeroplane before it is 25 years old.
However, without prejudice to Article 9 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 on market access, if serious environmental problems arise, Member States may impose operating restrictions - not a total ban on operation, but operating restrictions - such as a night curfew for Chapter 2 aeroplanes, provided that these do not result in a total ban on the operation of such aeroplanes.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
