Indeed, when I speak as a politician, in a political context, I am no longer dealing with a personal matter which I can resolve in the corridors, but a political question which I cannot resolve with my fists in the corridors.
Mr Rosado Fernandez, I admit that I have trouble deciding whether your speech was for a personal matter, a motion of procedure or a comment on the Minutes, but you have made it so politely that I am very willing to take note of it.
Mr Rack, I will reassure you doubly.
Mr Caccavale, I do believe you when you say that you could not find this report.
The Ulster Unionist Party has received so much support from this House time and time again, and at the same time, in the European Parliament, we have the Referendum Party propping up a single Member with £150, 000 for the general election campaign in Britain.
In any case we will check.
Mr Nicholson, you know very well that when a colleague asks to speak, one never knows if it is really a motion of procedure or not.
Both date from 1966 and have been signed by over 100 states.
These are the human rights of the new, the third generation.
The purpose of social human rights is to ensure freedom, equality and codetermination under the conditions of an industrialized society.
It is far more difficult to admit to shortcomings in one's own country.
In drawing up a report on the human rights situation in the European Union, we must avoid hypocrisy.
This report clearly addresses the situation in the individual EU Member States.
I should like to thank all those Members who have taken part in this highly controversial debate so far.
Madam President, I am speaking about the presence of Commissioner Van den Broek, whom I would like to thank for coming here and following this debate.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be expected that what has happened in previous years here in Parliament will be repeated once again this morning, namely that the debate on the annual report on the human rights situation in the European Union for 1995 will degenerate into a discussion marked on the one hand by fundamental differences of opinion on what a human rights debate should involve and, on the other hand, by self-interested national and group tactics.
Because the fact is that a debate has been gathering force in all the political groups over the last few years which is aimed at preventing precisely that, in other words saying that human rights are indivisible.
Mrs Roth deals with the question of the rights of people in detention.
And, as far as the rights of people in detention are concerned, this report makes it clear that the situation in almost all the Member States leaves a good deal to be desired.
Madam President, this year as in previous years, the Group of the European People's Party has sought rapprochement and consensus in Parliament to make this annual report on human rights in the Union a balanced, structured, legally correct document which impartially reflects the true human rights position in the Union.
But after what Mr Schulz has said it needs to be put on record that the Member States of the Union belong to a group of countries which guarantee full respect for human rights through democratic and pluralist political systems with effective parliamentary institutions and independent legal systems.
Such violations must be denounced before this house, but always clearly and meticulously, after detailed study of each alleged case to establish whether there has been damage to appropriate measures of protection and respect for human rights, or whether the violation has been properly dealt with under the national legal and administrative systems.
Obviously, as a co-legislative body, the European Parliament must ensure that Union law develops in a context of respect for the fundamental rights of the human being, because the main aim of any genuinely democratic social project must be the freedom and dignity of the human being.
But we must stress the need for knowledge of national and international law on human rights in drawing up a report on the human rights position in the Union, as well as an exact idea of the legal concepts and strict application of precise terminology.
It is also important to use legal sources as the basis for the document, not reports without legal foundation based on mere statements of principle or accusations which are sometimes unfounded.
Consequently the report on respect for human rights in the European Union must be circumscribed by our principal guide on the road to European construction: the law originating in the treaty.
The treaty establishes the meaning of the concept of human rights to be respected by the Union and its institutions clearly and unequivocally.
So a report on human rights must be structured on the principles contained in the Treaty of Rome.
I also want to express my hope that the next report by this Parliament on respect for human rights in the Union will be a structured and rigorous document, a consensual report which is not pre-programmed, a report which does not distort reality to turn it into a political issue.
Madam President, firstly I am anxious to thank Mrs Roth for the work she has done and for the time she has devoted to trying to come up with a text on which there is a consensus.
One of the essential criticisms I would make of this report is that it wants to sweep over all aspects of life in society, enumerate all situations, add up all cases of appearance.
Of course, our Europe is not perfect.
But here, in the European Parliament, I, like members from every State in the Union, enjoy one of the greatest rights which exist, that of being able to vote against your report.
The annual report contains a number of good points, but there are three criticisms I would make.
Madam President, our democratic societies must create the necessary conditions to ensure that every person, simply by being a person, enjoys human rights, understood not only as civil and political rights, but also as economic, social and cultural rights.
Poverty is rising in European Union countries.
Increasing numbers of people are victims of this evil for one reason or another and it is essential to promote social assistance and government support to combat it.
There is still discrimination against foreigners in Europe, and the law still regards those citizens as a danger to security and public order - targets for police surveillance, not individuals who enrich our society socially and culturally.
Only foreigners from Union countries are good foreigners in the European Union.
In European Year against Racism Member States have a greater duty than ever to guarantee foreign communities protection against racist violence and all forms of discrimination.
And the Community institutions must give priority to funding projects geared to the fight against racism.
A European society which straightforwardly aspires to democracy, solidarity and a high level of respect for fundamental rights, cannot fail to guarantee social security to all its members.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on human rights in the European Union can and must be an important opportunity to find out facts, to take stock and make proposals.
The rapporteur has said this morning that, in some respects, her report takes sides.
In one sense it does indeed, in that it is not restricted to human rights as defined by the International Covenant, but covers the broader subject of social rights and social security.
Quite apart from the need to respect human dignity, I believe that it is also essential to show respect for the European Parliament and its role, which must not be either passive or unproductive.
All of these rights are as inalienable as the preceding ones.
To make progress, certainly, to make progress with these rights, but really it would not be a bad thing if we could just stop regressing, because, in our countries, the rights of foreigners in particular, are being nibbled at, eaten away little by little, and defending the rights of foreigners in our land is now part of the battle for human rights.
Madam President, in this report, in this interminable inventory which resembles less a poem by Prévert and more a catalogue of a grand raffle, there is everything.
Madam President, for my part I am sorry that, as in previous years, this important report on human rights has given rise to the same interminable shilly-shallying when defining the limit of the subjects to be dealt with: the static conception of human rights as opposed to an evolving and dynamic meaning.
That is why I would like to recall the fact that the United Nations committee responsible for monitoring the application of the international treaty on civil and political rights by the 133 signatory countries made an important decision last November.
It nonsuited the negationist Robert Faurisson, who was claiming that the loi Gayssot attacked his freedom of expression and education.
The committee considers that it does nothing of the sort and that freedom of expression can be subjected to restrictions necessary for the respect of the rights or reputation of others.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the original aim in drawing up this report was to legitimize the European Parliament's condemnation of human rights violations in other parts of the world.
Indeed, it is difficult to see how this report can legitimize Parliament's criticism of human rights abuses in China or Zaire.
The problem with this report is the following: it does not deal with specific human rights violations, but lists political demands.
It sheds more light on the rapporteur's political views than on the human rights situation in Europe.
And that is precisely its weakness.
And that is portrayed as a human rights violation!
Clearly, this is a question open to dispute, but to portray it as a human rights violation is, if you will forgive me for saying so, entirely wrong.
I propose - and here I share the views of Mr Schulz - that we abandon the distinction between human rights in Europe and human rights in the rest of the world.
I therefore propose that we include in the report only human rights violations for which an action can be brought before the Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg.
The concept of human rights is changing because the rights themselves are changing, in particular so-called social rights.
Our rapporteur invites us to do so explicitly by adopting the now classic distinction between human rights of the first generation and those of the second.
She invites us to codify and guarantee a third generation of human rights.
This objection should be taken seriously, but the fact remains that thinking towards an extension of human rights is perfectly legitimate and undoubtedly necessary, if only because it makes us think about the destiny of our society and because it allows us to correct certain developments while there is still time.
This evolutive approach is also justified by the fact that the classic declarations and texts are also the result of an evolution which took place over several centuries before arriving at a legally binding codification.
This is particularly true for legal matters of an international nature, where the time lapse between what had been accepted for a long time at home and a code of good conduct applicable to relations between States is particularly striking.
This right wing has still not assimilated the fact that some rights are debts upon society, positive rights, like in France since 1848 for example; the economic, social, cultural and ecological rights are human rights.
In France, the Pasqua and Debré laws are concrete examples of this.
That is why, seeing that it is greater perfection to know the truth, even if it is to our disadvantage, than not to know it, I confess that it is better to be less joyous and more knowledgeable.' Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the question of human rights in the European Union is on the agenda, national sensitivities suddenly begin to dominate again, and indeed under the banner of non-interference in countries' internal affairs, a concept which I remember well as a cornerstone of the human rights policy of the Communist countries.
But the European Parliament is checked here by the European Convention on Human Rights - the only legal framework for any discussion of the protection or violation of human rights.
Firstly, Article F(2) of the Treaty on European Union requires the Union to respect fundamental rights, not only as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but also as they result from the constitutional traditions common to the Member States, in which the social and cultural basis of human rights is taken into account and amply developed - and certainly not always as restrictively, Mr Nassauer, as in the German Constitution.
The purpose of this report is not to freeze human rights concepts and practices at their 1950 level, but to update them in accordance with the totally different circumstances of our times.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that we are discussing the human rights situation in the European Union today.
Madam President, from this side of the hemicycle, we are following with some amusement the division between right and left on the more or less extendable definition of human rights.
But we think that, before creating new rights, it is first necessary to make sure that the fundamental rights are respected, that is, firstly the right to freedom of expression, including for those who think differently from you, including for those who think differently from the dominant cultural or political power.
Lastly, human rights also mean the right to electoral freedom and trade union freedom.
It is not possible to create new unions, it is not possible to stand freely, in France, in trade union and professional elections and this is obviously a very serious attack upon human rights.
This attack has just be stregthened by the Perben law, which limits the liberties which still existed in the civil service in this area.
This freedom is also limited by a number of court decisions taken by sleeping judges, on the orders of the authorities, which have finished up by prohibiting a number of national unions, in particular the Force national-transports en commun (TGWU), which aimed to enable the representation of free workers in the transport sector.
So, yes, human rights in Europe must be defended, but first we must defend the fundamental liberties: electoral freedom, trade union freedom, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and freedom of association.
Clearly, these things must be discussed; but they must be discussed in the committees responsible, and not under the guise of a debate on human rights.
We in the Group of the European People's Party would like to see Parliament get back to legally enforceable rights, discussing actual human rights abuses and calling for respect for human rights in cases where the path of human rights has been abandoned.
There is justifiable criticism in the report of the use of violence, inhuman, cruel or degrading treatment or punishment inflicted on persons on remand by the security forces or the forces of law and order.
Women imprisoned in jails anywhere in the Community must be treated properly and with dignity.
I wish to thank the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and particularly its chairman, Hedy d'Ancona, for accepting my amendment calling for appropriate facilities to be provided for pregnant women in prisons.
I want to thank the German Government and the German Members of Parliament for their understanding of this particular case and for their support for my campaign for the proper treatment of prisoners in English jails.
Madam President, I would like to give two examples to illustrate that the report is, in my view, unrepresentative and far too general. 1) Denmark is named several times, whereas other countries scarcely appear.
In conclusion, Madam President, I must say that the report does not fulfil its function and appears to be in appropriate.
We support it also because it makes specific mention of the fundamental right to work and to a proper standard of living - a right which is being denied to 25 million unemployed people in the Community, 50 million who are living on the verge of hunger and an equal number of homeless people.
Finally, we will be voting for it because it insists on absolute respect for nature and the environment.
In response to the claim in paragraph 54 that the failure to comply with the commitment to freedom of establishment has caused citizens to lose confidence in the European institutions, I would suggest to the House that the public's impression that those up in Brussels, as it is always called, simply wish to brush aside democratically established laws is leading to a far greater loss of confidence.
Can I, although Mr Nassauer is not here, remind him that the title of this report is in fact human rights in the European Union not human rights in the entire world.
This is greatly to be regretted since only a limited number of states have signed the Schengen Agreement and therefore the individual right of free movement is not guaranteed even collectively.
That is the reason why I endorse paragraphs 53 to 59 and I say that free movement is a human right essential not only for the citizen but for the working of the European Union.
Madam President, Europe wishes to place itself on a pedestal as an international guarantor of democracy around the world, but without having put its own house in order.
The rapporteur mentions a number of sacrosanct rights and principles which the Union cannot overlook, not least because it needs to claim the role of international guarantor of human rights in order to draw a veil over the real, anti-democratic Europe of big business.
Until we recognize these particular rights we do not have the moral authority to criticize others elsewhere in the world.
It does sometimes happen in the international arena that we are accused of criticizing various countries for failing to respect human rights while the situation in our own countries still leaves a good deal to be desired.
Finally, the Commission has stated in its report for the Intergovernmental Conference that the Conference should include provisions in the Treaty banning any form of discrimination and condemning racism and xenophobia.
A further point is that the elements of social security that are specifically designed to prevent poverty and marginalization are naturally to remain the responsibility of the Member States.
Another important subject is the fight against the trade in humans, both adults and children, and the sexual exploitation of children.
On 26 January 1997, the Council approved joint action to criminalize certain types of conduct and to improve judicial cooperation in this field.
I should like to end by thanking Mrs Roth for her report, and in particular for the tremendous efforts she has made to produce a report again this year, even if a consensus has yet to be reached on it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
For the first time we are actually talking about a technical report from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs with an opinion from the Committee on Budgets about a solid proposal to address the issue of racism and xenophobia.
Over a series of four reports that outlined the need for such a centre, having been asked by the European Councils in Cannes and Madrid to do such work, the Council, following the report of the consultative committee, agreed in principle and asked for further elaboration.
However, we have a few reservations and observations.
What we want is an institution capable of drawing up and drawing together local, regional, national and international resources already available all around the European Union and outside, using especially the expertise of the Council of Europe which, very successfully, ran its 'all different, all equal' campaign last year.
We want to draw those together to produce evidence of the best practical means of preventing and combating racism and xenophobia and producing lists of recommendations for local, regional and national governments and also for Parliament, Commission and Council.
Amendment No 14 requests that we have a representative on the management board from the European Parliament, not a Member but someone appointed on behalf of the European Parliament.
We want to avoid the problems of bureaucratic capture.
There are a number of other amendments from the Committee on Budgets.
Mr Tappin, draftsman of the opinion, will explain those in more detail.
Amendment No 18, the last part of 4(c), should go to Amendment No 18, Article 13, new 1(a).
It will be a severe disappointment to the 12 to 14 million third country nationals and the four million black Europeans if this was to be an end.
We believe that our amendments will allow the monitoring of racial harassment, the other problem that Member State has, and my own party believes there will be no fundamental problem in approving such an institution, should there be a change of government on 1 May in the United Kingdom.
Mr President, Parliament has a long history of supporting the fight against racism.
I wish the Commission would accept this argument without our having to go through this same process every time.
We argue that the agency should be set up in line with Article 142 of the Financial Regulation and that own resources should be treated as Community resources and shown as such within the budget itself.
But the Budget Committee supports the establishment of this agency within the general lines and regulations we have set out for all other agencies.
Mr President, the arrival in the House of right-wing extremists in 1984 marked the start of a series of activities designed to combat racism and xenophobia.
There were a good many points in the Commission's proposal to which our committee - and indeed my group - objected, but we worked hard in the Committee on Civil Liberties with the rapporteur and Members from various other parties, and managed to produce an excellent result without any polarization.
It has an enormous budget of ECU 6 million, which has already worried some organizations, such as United.
I do believe that the idea of the observatory is justified in theory, but in practice it still strikes me as somewhat vague.
In short, this observatory seems to me to be superfluous.
When you know the quality of the initiative of the Council of Europe, of which we here are the hosts, and which does a considerable body of work which has been kept under a wraps when it should have been the concern of our entire continent, all of these elements seem rather puzzling to us.
Mr President, this is the umpteenth report on racism or the fight against racism which Mr Ford has thrust under our noses, this time about the setting-up of a European Monitoring Centre for Racism.
On the pretext of fighting racism - which may exist as a marginal phenomenon, but has not reached sociologically or politically relevant proportions in any Member State - the taxpayer is having to foot the bill for a centre which is merely designed to gag freedom of expression, along the lines of those that exist already in various Member States.
The House would do better to draw up a report on that instead.
Mr President, in this European Year against Racism, Xenophobia and Anti-Semitism I believe it would be extremely positive if we could get beyond declarations and create a permanent centre working for those three objectives.
Many people are working on these issues in society, and especially in local and regional government which have prime responsibility for problems of arrival and abode - and I mention arrival because that is what is happening in my country - relating to people from third countries.
So I only hope the pitfalls in the Council will disappear and the observatory will be created during this European Year against Racism and Xenophobia, in line with the objectives we are expressing here today.
Mr President, earlier this morning, we discussed human rights in the European Union and the various kinds of human rights violation.
At a time when social security is being undermined by unemployment, poverty and organized crime, these problems are not being blamed on inadequate economic management or government mistakes, but on the immediate environment, which is more tangible and more accessible.
People in our society are no longer viewed as a whole.
Some people are allowed to be here because of their nationality; and others, whom we call foreigners, are allowed to stay because they have lived here for a long time.
History has taught us that racism and xenophobia destroy people and cause enormous suffering.
I hardly need stress that the Commission and Parliament are completely united in their struggle against the ugly phenomenon of racism and xenophobia and that, on this particular proposal, there are no fundamental differences between us.
The setting-up of this observatory underlines the commitment of the Community to defending human rights and, more particularly, to respecting human rights in its legislation and policies.
In order to do this the Community and the Member States must have at their disposal accurate and objective information concerning all the problems associated with racism and xenophobia.
With regard to the specific amendments which are proposed in the report, I am pleased to say that I can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 9, 10, 15, 16 and 19 in full and Amendments Nos 6 and 14 in part.
Those amendments which the Commission cannot accept fall broadly into two groups: the first group are those which change the nature of the Centre or go beyond the original scope of the proposal, and the second group are those which change standard formulae or raise matters of a general interinstitutional nature which would be better dealt with in a different, more general context.
In this respect, I refer in particular to Amendments Nos 13, 18, 20 and 21 which concern budgetary matters.
Amendment No 8 cannot be accepted since it is unnecessary: the wording proposed by the Commission is a perfectly standard and adequate formula and the conferring of legal personality is not restricted to application of the Financial Regulation.
Amendment No 11 is unnecessarily restrictive of the Management Board's autonomy.
Amendment No 12 is, in the Commission's view, unnecessary.
Here the Commission's original proposal very closely mirrors the texts establishing the other agencies and it would therefore be inappropriate to diverge from these texts in this particular case.
Finally, Amendment No 17, relating to recruitment of staff, is not acceptable.
But you must also try to appreciate that any change would have to go right across the board.
It would not be appropriate I believe to just simply make a change regarding this particular agency without concerning ourselves with its general application right across all of the Union's operations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, economic growth in the European Union is like the current season: spring has arrived, but it is still cold.
However, the annual economic report does not reflect this everyday reality in the European Union.
I would point to the absence - and this is a weakness of European economic policy as a whole - of clear objectives and sound and reliable decisions in European economic and financial policy.
The Member States have been working with the so-called broad guidelines of economic policy for over two years, without managing to develop concerted and coordinated economic policies.
This is another explanation for the weakness of European growth.
It is more important, however, to overcome the weakness of investment, to stimulate domestic demand within the European Union and to boost consumer purchasing power.
Given that up to two thirds of aggregate demand in Europe comes from outside, demand stimuli that are applied only at regional or national level will obviously peter out.
With the introduction of a single currency for a single market covering 90 % of EU production, it will clearly be possible to pursue effective demand management.
Secondly, the Community must have an appropriate and balanced policy mix, since it is increasingly difficult to pursue exclusively national policies successfully within the world economy.
Since the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty, the European Parliament has regarded the broad guidelines of economic policy as a means to implement the provisions of Article 103 and overcome the difficulties of economic and monetary union.
Perhaps this critical analysis of the annual economic report will help to bring about concerted political action and ensure that a market economy underpinned by a socially responsible economic order and job-creating growth finally sees the light of day in the European Union.
Mr President, the European Commission's Annual Economic Report for 1997 comes at a crucial time in the process of integration that has been taking place on the continent since the signing of the Treaty of Rome, and we have just celebrated its fortieth anniversary.
The signatories of that historic treaty could surely never have imagined that 40 years later the problem of unemployment would be the most serious threat to their project for achieving a united, prosperous and mutually supportive Europe.
This new step in the deepening of integration will undoubtedly have positive consequences for resolving the unemployment problem.
For instance, my own country, Spain, which has the highest rate of unemployment in the European Union, hopes to demonstrate that only by adopting strict economic measures - aided by the exemplary social agreement on reform of the labour market which is reaching its culmination - can we be optimistic and confident of a hopeful future for jobseekers.
Investment in infrastructure, coordination between the various departments responsible for unemployment problems, the creation of mechanisms of financial assistance to small and medium-sized businesses, the elimination of administrative and bureaucratic burdens, the exploitation of new sources of employment in sectors like environment, leisure, culture and the third age, the incorporation into the treaty of a new chapter on employment, with a greater involvement of Parliament in the planning and development of employment policy, and the new formulae to combat unemployment proposed in the Commission's report represent many opportunities for action, so we should not resign ourselves.
But we must act with the urgency that the problem demands.
The Commission's Annual Economic Report is a good document on the whole and should help us, all of us who have any responsibility, try to change the scenario it depicts of weak job creation over the next few years.
European integration has achieved the longest period of peace between the countries concerned, but it runs the risk of being held liable for unemployment if we do not succeed in defeating this problem together.
We have an investment rate of only 19 % of GDP in Europe today.
We need an investment rate of 25 % if we are going to boost the growth potential and growth opportunity of the European Union so that we can create jobs.
In the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we were able to see that the realistic optimism which characterizes this report is shared by the majority of members of the committee.
In discussions with economists and investors, I repeatedly observe that confidence in the prospect of clear economic growth is still lacking in many EU countries.
Let me comment on some of the important points raised in this debate.
It must be said, however, that we would have to economize with or without the Maastricht Treaty and monetary union, because total debt in the European Community is far too high and interest charges account for 20 to 30 % of our budgets, on average.
A number of other decisions on these lines have also been taken, and I presume that on 23 April, when the Commission presents its assessment of the figures for 1996, Parliament will have the opportunity - in the debate which I assume will take place before the press conference - to request further clarification on this matter.
It is our duty every year, when discussing it, to stop and reflect on what has been done over the past twelve months to create genuine economic cohesion among the Member States.
If this issue were to be tackled properly, we would in fact see improvements in the Community in terms of the three main areas covered in the report: growth, convergence towards monetary union and unemployment.
However, the citizens of Europe, and in particular industrialists - large and small - still cannot see any significant, practical results in these three areas, which are so crucial to the economic future of Europe.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has tabled a resolution which, while on the one hand commending the Commission's work, calls on the other for direct, immediate action to revitalize the labour market.
Thanks to the euro, the citizens of Europe will discover, as consumers, that they are living in a large internal market where they can purchase, study and travel in fifteen different countries with just one currency.
Thanks to the euro, industrialists - especially in small and medium-sized firms - will be able to offer their products or services to a market of 370 million consumers.
In the process of economic convergence the economies of the European Union are developing extremely well in terms of inflation rates, interest rates and monetary stability.
This aspect seems to us to be all the more important in view of the state of the productive economy and, above all, of the social situation caused by the policies elected as regards supply and by conflict and dissension over working and social conditions, which also often means that forecasts are not met.
In her report, Mrs Randzio-Plath puts forward a number of very interesting and original proposals which our group supports.
Its quality of content above all, when it comes to supporting the process of monetary union while also asking for forceful measures in favour of growth and employment, after recalling the dramatic weakness of demand within the Union.
As far as we are concerned - and we will perhaps be a little less diplomatic - we are even so a little surprised to hear the Committee in its recent report on the beneficial state of strengthened cooperation recall to mind what it calls the 'workforce potential' available to the Union, made up not only of 18 million unemployed, but an additional reserve of at least 9 million people who would enter employment if there were jobs.
The revival of private investment by facilitating the access of small and medium-sized businesses to credit, we have already talked about.
In relation to that we can only be seriously worried by the spirit of stabilisation, even of reduction, of the means of the Union, which is presiding over the preparation of the Union budget for 1998, over financial prospects in the medium term and the reform of the structural fund.
In a more fundamental way, this view runs against the objective of construction of economic , we stress, and monetary Union.
On the contrary, let us demand that the Executive Committee prepare for us the ways and means of action for economic government of the Union.
Mr President, last year we had discovered within these walls that the Commission's Annual Economic Report contained almost nothing on a theme essential for growth and employment, that of investment.
This lacuna has been corrected in the current report, but the passages it devotes to the subject show a worrying situation, as we had feared.
Indeed, with the current rates of investment, the pace of growth of the economy of the Community in the future can only be very slow, which is incompatible with the need to create jobs.
We would certainly see a convergence develop in Europe, but it would be a convergence downwards, towards a situation of major chronic unemployment.
The report seems powerless to explain this situation, and all the more so since, in its view, the return on capital at the end of the day would not be too bad.
Because of the high cost of our workforce, in a context of active competition and the establishment, directly or indirectly, of a sort of global employment market, investment intended to substitute capital for work with the aim of improving competitiveness has been very high.
But as this evolution itself contributes to unemployment, as well as to the development of a psychological climate of depression, demand has remained low and capacity investments, for their part, have not followed.
We would also like to add that it is not enough to say, as the report does, that the return on our investments is the same today as it was yesterday: you also have to show that it is comparable with the situation in other parts of the world, since the market for capital is now also global.
The reconquest and the protection of our internal market should be your priority for producing European goods, in Europe, by Europeans.
Furthermore, the Eurocrats consider imbeciles those who do not think like them and have the cheek to write it, covertly of course, on page 31 of the document.
Is an economy in good health an economy in which public debt is lower than 60 % of GDP, where the budgetary deficit is less than 3 %, or that of full employment?
The policy you are pursuing has only one aim: to reassure markets for the introduction of the single currency, but it is for Europeans that you must construct Europe, and that is what you have forgotten.
Votes , rapporteur, - (FI) Mr President, in my capacity as rapporteur I should like to ask that the vote on my report be held over to tomorrow, Wednesday.
From Parliament's point of view, it is very important that we should have this additional information before voting and that is why, Mr President, I should like the vote to be held over to tomorrow.
Mrs Ojala, you are asking that the vote be adjourned pursuant to Rule 131.
Proceding as you have done, I think that you are going to make us repeat votes which have already taken place.
You should have put the amendment to the vote first, then have taken a separate vote on the rest of the paragraph.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, when I commented at the beginning about confusion being caused in certain votes by various requests from the political groups I also had this point in mind.
On paragraph 39 Mr President, I should like to know if paragraph 39 falls because of the adoption of Amendment No 9.
On Amendment No 3 Mr President, I have the unfortunate feeling that someone is creating confusion here.
If it is adopted, the original text will be changed; if it is rejected, the original text must be put to the vote.
Mr Schulz, allow me to say that you cannot always know what others have requested.
The Green Group has requested a split vote item by item.
On Amendment No 15 Mr President, the Swedish and Danish versions of this amendment have been mistranslated.
These possibilities already exist in Sweden and Denmark.
The amendment should say that Sweden and Denmark provide for these legal possibilities, since they already exist in those countries.
However, this cannot justify reneging on the commitments laid down in the directive.
The directive 93/35/CEE, adopted in June 1993, planned, firstly, for 'prohibition of the marketing of products, ingredients or combinations of cosmetic ingredients tested on animals from 1 January 1998' .
The report by Mrs Dagmar Roth-Behrendt stresses quite rightly that, despite the criticisms made of the 1994 report, the 1995 report still contains no emergency measure on the methods which may be substituted for animal experimentation.
Parliament has a role to play and should lead the Commission to give unrestricted support to the prohibition from 1 January 1998.
Regrettably, it seems that the Commission is giving in to pressure from the industry and is totally unwilling to pursue a policy of promoting alternative testing methods.
This means that more than 15 million animals will also be 'used' in European laboratories in the future.
Rather introduction of the ban in Europe could have a knock-on effect resulting in international recognition of alternative testing methods.
Regarding research into alternative methods, there is need for a programme of priorities.
Therefore the ECVAM approved money (9 million ecus over 3 years) must be used for its intended purpose.
resolution on genetically modified maize Mr President, my explanation of vote concerns the resolution on transgenic maize.
Once again, the Commission has shown itself to be more sensitive to the necessities of commerce and the free circulation of products than to risks to consumers.
Thirdly, as in the mad cow affair, we have seen certain Member States defend their citizens, despite the position of the Commission.
Austria, and even Luxemburg, have prohibited the distribution of genetically modified maize on their respective markets, to protect their populations.
I am anxious to show my keenest support for the resolution on genetically modified maize, voted for by our Assembly.
In this context, it seems to me essential, as far as one can accept the principle of putting genetically manipulated foodstuffs on the market, that the two following conditions be respected: Firstly, the implementation of strict evaluation - based upon the most up-to-date independent scientific data - of the harmlessness of a product to human health, the health of animals and the environment, before it is put on the market; secondly, once this harmlessness has been proved, it is important to ensure that consumers are effectively informed, both by the broadcasting of relevant scientific opinion and by appropriate labelling.
In the case of the request for authorisation to market genetically modified maize by the firm CIBA-GEIGY, the Commission decided on 18 December 1996 to give a favourable response, although none of these conditions was fulfilled.
Indeed, the harmlessness of this product is not the subject of a consensus, the possibility of transmission to humans of resistance to an antibiotic being mentioned in particular; the complete scientific analyses by three scientific committees, upon which the Commission's decision was founded, have not been published; suitable labelling has proved impossible, because of the insufficient provisions of directive 90/220, and the fact that the regulation relating to new foodstuffs is not yet in force.
Consequently, I request that the procedure of authorisation of this product is suspended exceptionally, until firstly, a complete re-evaluation of the consequences for human health, animal health and the environment of its appearance on the market has established without ambiguity that it is harmless; secondly, all scientific opinions of the committees consulted by the Commission for this purpose have been made public; thirdly, the Commission has explained clearly, if necessary, if and in what way it intends to apply and enforce respect of the provisions of the regulation relating to new foodstuffs, as far as the labelling of genetically modified maize by CIBA-GEIGY is concerned.
To conclude, I would like to add three comments: in the first place, it would be a great pleasure for me personally to hear the Commission's position on the precise content of the labelling which will be offered in practice, when this type of maize and its derivatives reach the consumer; then, at the same time, given that large quantities of this imported maize are currently arriving in bulk in Europe, perhaps it is not pointless to envisage the establishment of strict standards, defined by a group of experts within GATT and recognised worldwide; finally, I dare to hope that the Commission will demonstrate, in the process of modification of the directive 90/220, that it has learned some lessons from this sensitive affair, knowing that this type of request to market is apparently likely to develop in the future.
But it is surprising, however, because 13 of the EU's 15 Member States opposed the introduction of this maize onto the market.
The European Parliament's common resolution is good, even if it is not sufficiently critical in some sections and I have no hesitation in voting for this proposal.
We believe that two considerations must be paramount in the consideration of genetically modified food: consumer safety and consumer choice.
On consumer safety, we note that the Commission consulted three expert committees before giving marketing authorization to this product.
On consumer choice, we welcome the fact that the Commission is to propose that all products containing GMOs will have to be labelled, thereby extending the current information requirements.
We believe that with these safeguards Europe's consumers and Europe's farmers will be in the best position to combat competition from the US and to judge for themselves whether they want to choose genetically modified products or not.
We regard the joint motion for a resolution as seriously flawed in its rejection of the authorization that has been given, and out-of-date in that it does not take account of the announcements made by the Commission on 2 April regarding the labelling of all GM products.
It does contain some useful points regarding the need for the European Parliament to be more closely involved in the process of authorization of GM products, and we have supported these elements.
The only honest course open to us in the final vote on the whole text was therefore abstention.
It goes without saying that all genetically modified foods should be labelled so that consumers know what they are buying and eating.
The European Parliament condemns the irresponsibility of the Commission, which has authorised Member States to import and market products based upon genetically modified maize in spite of all of the negative opinions of the European Parliament, and which has done this to the detriment of the principle of precaution concerning the health of consumers and the protection of the environment.
France has, for this reason, seized upon this authorisation to permit American imports while prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified maize, and the inconsistency of such a position can only be condemned.
Its cultivation, which has already been carried out in the United States and Canada, produces better crops and strengthens the competitive edge of a product in a very competitive world market, as we know.
The uncertainty about long term effects, the desire to reassure consumers still traumatised - and quite rightly - by the mad cow crisis, have weighted the French decision, which many observers have judged inconsistent and preelectoral.
But the recent scandals and dramas which we have experienced must make us more cautious.
This law was voted in by the European Parliament in January 1997 and should soon be applied in all 15 countries.
Mr President, despite its deficiencies, I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution, because it condemns the irresponsibility of the Commission which, unilaterally, took the decision to authorise the marketing of genetically modified maize in spite of the negative opinion of the very great majority of the Member States and the European Parliament.
But it should have gone much further than that and demanded that the Commission go back on the decision it made on 18 December 1996, for as long as sufficiently serious independent scientific assurances have not been given on its consequences as regards protection of human health and of the environment.
It was the French government, with its decree of 4 February, which was the first and is still the only government to authorise the marketing of genetically modified maize (30, 000 tons of which, curiously, had already been in French ports for a month), while other European countries like Austria, Switzerland and Luxemburg decided to protect their populations.
Or else, is the vocation of the European Union no longer to defend the interests of Member States, aspiring only to become, in the words of Valéry 'an American Commission' ?
Roth report (A4-0112/97) Mr President, we have voted against the Roth report both because of its aspects which are unrelated to the subject and because of its lacunae and omissions.
Indeed, the Roth report does not speak about the persecution to which the unions are subject in France.
When this union nominated union delegates to the RATP, a major public transport company in the Ile de France, the management took these union members to court.
Antilla, Lindqvist, Ryynänen, Virrankoski and Väyrynen (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm and Lindholm (V), Bonde, Lis Jensen, Krarup and Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) The struggle for human rights is very important everywhere.
I voted against Amendment No 43 on abortion information - as it is worded it is unacceptable.
In Ireland we have a very high level of abortion, disproportionately high in comparison with other EU countries.
We are sorry that the European Parliament has thought it right, despite our negative votes, to adopt the Roth report which contains a whole series of aberrations, like the request to Member States to recognise homosexual couples and to grant them the right to adopt children.
However, on the rights of persons in detention, paragraph 76 'reaffirms the principle that imprisonment should IN MOST CASES take place at a location that is as near as possible to the detainee's family and/or social environment' .
That is why I abstained in the final vote.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of Parliament's annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union (1995) with the exception of point 159.
We believe that the report is satisfactory in general.
Our opposition to point 159 is due solely to the fact that it contains a factual error.
This ban also covers paedophile magazines.
I voted with my Group (the PPE) against the Roth resolution even though I supported over 90 of its paragraphs and appreciated many aspects of the rapporteur's work.
The report does, however, contain inaccuracies and goes beyond the scope of a work of this kind, which ought above all to help to bring to public awareness the problems concerning the fundamental rights of citizens in the European Union who deserve better attention and treatment.
On the other hand it seems to me that social rights and environmental rights not only hold a different significance, but should be studied in greater detail by the relevant Parliamentary committees.
We find it very positive that the European Parliament is making a serious and in-depth analysis of respect for human rights in the European Union, all the more so since there tend to be too many value judgments made about what is happening in this field outside the Union.
There are various significant problems noted within the European Union.
The right to a job, steady employment, adequate social security and finally a dignified standard of living are undeniably essential aspects of human rights; this list should also include the fight against unemployment, poverty, exclusion and marginalization.
We shall for the same reasons be voting against the proposals tabled which run counter to the spirit of this approach.
When it comes to human rights, Europe must defend its good name on the world stage.
I therefore greatly regret the fact that the opposition of some EU Member States to a resolution which critically analysed the human rights situation in China has meant that the Union is not now tabling a human rights resolution before the UN.
Unfortunately, this is not the case in the Roth report.
The report is ideologically biased, and contains many elements which have a great deal to do with economic, social and environmental policies, but absolutely nothing to do with human rights.
Any report on this subject should, in my opinion, deal with excesses against fundamental human rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom of the press, religious freedom and freedom of association.
But that is not the point.
Point 119 of the proposal for the Resolution complains that more and more districts, particularly in France and Germany, outlaw begging.
On pages 77 and 78 of the Annual Economic Report, for example, it claims that a further cut in interest rates and the feel-good factor will compensate for the fall in demand caused by the cutbacks.
Yet stimulating employment by promoting growth should be given at least the same priority throughout the Union as achieving the convergence criteria.
And promoting growth and achieving the convergence criteria are not mutually exclusive, of course.
Mr President, last year I was the rapporteur on the 1996 annual economic report and I am very conscious of the difficulties under which both the Commission and the rapporteur have had to work.
I wish to congratulate the Commission this year on having got its annual economic report together rather more coherently and rather earlier than last year.
There has been a tendency in the two previous years to be a little bit too sanguine about the prospects for the European Community's economy.
That remains the fundamental problem which faces Europe.
I am delighted to see that, although I do not agree with everything the rapporteur says in her report, there is an acknowledgement - in paragraph 8 of the resolution - of the harmful effects of 'high statutory non-wage costs on labour' , which leads to a reluctance to hire people.
But, on the other hand, there is a lack of realism: in an earlier reference in paragraph 5(ix) we have the usual rehearsal of left-wing objections to the activities of speculators.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to concentrate on our amendments, and in particular Amendment No 9 on growth, employment and convergence on the road to EMU.
The situation in Germany, which has a publicsector share of 51 %, is totally different from that in the United Kingdom or Greece, for example.
Paragraph 12 of the annual economic report refers to pension liabilities and the reserves to cover them.
I am very much sympathetic to this view, since this is not a matter for either the Commission or Parliament to tackle, but something that must be handled locally, either between bodies involved in the job market or in the national parliaments, in accordance with the regulations of the individual countries.
The mania for budget consolidation in both the public and private sectors is directed too much towards cutting jobs and too little towards investment.
The example of France makes it clear that competitiveness cannot be improved by reducing labour costs alone: despite the reduction of labour costs in that country, unemployment has not fallen, and there have been further losses of market share.
It will therefore be important in the future to take a critical look at the EU's patterns of expenditure.
We cannot satisfy ourselves with economic policies at national level, when monetary policy will be on a Europe-wide scale.
The first idea is the need to give a European dimension to economic policy.
This shows very well that a country which is pursuing a policy of growth faster than its neighbours above all is supporting the economy of its neighbours.
The second idea is the need for a common policy for growth.
If I may permit myself, Mr President, to paraphrase Jacques Delors, would the European Union, which is borrowing so that it can lend to Bulgaria and Hungary, not do so to invest in its own quality of life or the future of its younger generations?
Mr President, I therefore think indeed that as the rapporteur proposes, we must have an economic policy of European dimensions and, above all, an economic policy for growth.
The reduction in real interest rates, which our rapporteur quite rightly hopes for, will not come as a result of this kind of relaxation.
The second area of work concerns the problem of globalisation and the progress of technology.
The Annual Economic report gives an interesting chapter on the subject.
I would like to stress one thing on this subject, which is that there is no a priori reason why globalisation should not lead to the creation of jobs, even if this poses a number of problems in the short term, as we know.
Mr President, for twenty years there has been mass unemployment in the European Union.
But when you have 18 million unemployed and 9 million people who would enter work if jobs existed, the rather artificial convergences required for the single currency, the small amounts of growth which have no real impact on unemployment, and the proposals which rush towards greater flexibility of work, less social protection and greater liberalism, are no longer enough.
While I approve of some of the Executive Committee's proposals on education and training and on local employment initiatives, I would say, like many others here, that unemployment needs shock treatment, along with effective stimulation of internal demand for goods and services, a reduction in interest rates, an increase in research and development, a less dogmatic and ideological approach to the criteria for convergence, a way of proceeding with restructuring which is undoubtedly gentler, and finally a genuine desire for industrial development.
What it requires therefore - and I am concluding in a general way - is that before any decision is made, all the decision-makers analyse its effects on employment in the short and medium term.
The criticism of Mr de Silguy is unjustified, since ultimately it is the Member States which are responsible for economic and financial policies.
Increased growth alone will not be sufficient to remedy these structural shortcomings.
It is certainly needed to create new jobs, but it is not enough.
Above all, we must promote the flexibility of the labour market and eliminate the problems in the internal market - the remaining barriers to trade, for instance - as soon as possible.
Only then, perhaps, will the European Union draw the conclusions that it should draw.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a note, but it shall not speak from it because I want to dispute some of the things that have been said by Members on the other side of the House.
Commissioner, I wonder if you could tell us where, in the stability pact, ' growth' is described as a proactive objective?
If you do not and my fears become a reality in the Member States, while you continue to insist that only a monetary free market can ensure the future of the people of Europe, it could mean the end of the European ideal as far as the public is concerned, which is the very worst thing that could happen.
Mr President, I would just like to point out that there are a number of serious errors in the description of the economic situation in Sweden in the Commission's report.
For example, it states that interest rates have never been as low as they are now and that the difference between the interest rates in Sweden and Germany has never been so small as now, but this is totally untrue.
It was then that our unemployment went up from 2 to 12 percent.
Swedish development is therefore an excellent example of the fact that a traditional social democratic policy works, a policy which tackles unemployment before fighting inflation.
Mr President, the most salient feature of the Annual Economic Report is the Commission's self-satisfaction in assessing the economic situation in the Union.
As the only explanation, the Commission continues to rely on the vague concept of lack of confidence.
As far as we are concerned, the economic situation in the Union exhibits significant deficiencies in crucial aspects which need to be stressed.
Public investment is becoming the major casualty of the process of achieving healthy public finances in the various Member States.
So we propose that when public deficits are judged excessive a fundamental distinction should be made between current expenditure and capital expenditure, between deficits to finance current spending and deficits to finance investment.
Even more worrying is our lag in research and development, especially in terms of the information society.
In conclusion, we socialists think it is wrong to reduce all economic policy to the objective of ensuring a healthy economic framework.
It is also necessary to commit ourselves to active policies for employment, training, investment, research and development strategy, a more active supply side policy, and management of aggregate demand as well.
We hope these considerations will be taken into account when the broad guidelines for economic policy are drawn up.
That, definitively, is what we wanted to do with the Annual Economic Report, because the report contains all the elements needed for a strategy for an overall economic policy, not only on convergence and economic and monetary Union, but also for growth and employment, which are two themes I would like to tackle now.
I am sorry, Mr Willockx, but public deficits have never created jobs.
First of all, growth must be supported by demand and on this subject I would like to stress this: that the Commission does not dispute the fact that demand must accompany growth and that the current deficiency in internal demand explains in part the caution of the current renewal.
I would remind you that growth was 1.6 % in 1996 and that it will be between 2 1/4 and 2 1/2 % in 1997.
Because gains in productivity are an important driving force of growth and because the reduction in relative prices, in sectors in which productivity is showing a strong increase, makes it possible, indeed, to increase demand for the purchase of goods and services in sectors in which productivity is increasing more slowly and in which, all the same, jobs are being created.
An attempt has been made to demonstrate this on page 34 of the AER.
As your Assembly recommends, this process is facilitated by the suppression of obstacles to innovation and by a policy of research and development which is better directed.
But I would add that demand is picking up again in Europe today, and on a sound footing.
They should now hand over to private consumption, which should grow by 2 % in 1997 and 2.5 % in 1998.
These improved prospects for demand should also stimulate investment.
It is true that, up to now, the renewal in investment worldwide is still timid.
That is what I wanted to say to you very quickly on growth, an essential condition for the creation of jobs.
Now, very briefly, because time is limited, I will say a few words on the second question, that is the creation of jobs: how can we facilitate the creation of jobs in Europe?
I would very quickly like to tackle two problems - the employment market and wages policy - which have been mentioned within these walls, this morning and this afternoon.
Indeed, during the period which followed the first oil crisis, the high level of labour costs, wages and non-wage costs, and in some cases, the existence of rigid regulations regarding job security, reduced the interest in labour as a factor of production.
The Annual Economic Report analyses these problems in relation to the substitution of capital for labour.
But the effects of the employment intensification process of growth are not immediate.
The Commission is convinced that it would be desirable to implement pragmatic solutions to broaden the scale of labour costs, according to qualifications and according to region and, up to a certain point, according to sector.
Well, no, the Commission does not share this point of view.
Allow me, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, in conclusion, to underline, and to recall, the fact that the Annual Economic Report responds to an overall coherent strategy of growth, employment and convergence which is developing in Europe.
I give as proof the short term reduction in real interest rates in Europe, by nearly 500 basis points since 1993, that is a historical reduction of 70 % - I give as proof also a large, and probably more meaningful, reduction in long term interest rates.
The debate we have taken part in today will enable us, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, to refine our analysis for the development of the major orientations of economic policy, which I will come and present to you on 23 April, that is, the very day on which the Commission will adopt them.
Mrs Randzio-Plath, I have only two concerns on this matter: to respect the Treaty and to strengthen the collaboration between your Assembly and the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The important thing with this facility, therefore, is that both the recipient Member State and the Union as a whole benefit from it.
Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs recommends not.
Would not this facility, which operates via the capital market in the form of loans guaranteed by the Community, be a useful one during the third stage of EMU, particularly for countries facing national difficulties?
Mr President, my dear colleagues, will it be necessary to extend the financial support facility for balances of payments beyond the date set for the entry into monetary union?
Indeed, he says, there will still be situations in which Member States suffer shocks which will require that they are helped out.
That is why I am expressing reservations on the final part of his exposé, and I wonder if it is necessary to imagine, on the basis of Article 103, paragraph 2, a facility similar to the current facility, but intended to sort out the problems of budgetary adjustment of Member States.
Now, as regards problems of budgetary balance, it is not a facility intended for the balance of payments which should be used: it is another facility.
And I am quite ready to support the idea that something should perhaps be planned.
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group I want to note the elements of agreement and disagreement with the emphasis placed by Mr Metten in his analysis.
Natural disasters, mismanagement in a particular economic sector or, in more general terms, an economic crisis in a sector which is vital to the Member State concerned.
If we are soon to enter the third stage with some of the Member States in and some out, or out for the time being, then it seems logical that the existing balance of payments support facility should remain in place, if only to help those countries whose balance of payments could, as Mr Katiforis said, come under even greater pressure once the single currency is launched, to show solidarity with them and to help them towards convergence.
The assistance provided makes the markets more confident that a particular country can improve its financial situation.
In both cases, the national governments can concentrate on reviving their economies, without having to worry about sanctions being imposed under the stability pact.
Your rapporteur raises two different questions, which the debate has really brought to light.
The first question relates to the maintenance, for the 'outs' - the Treaty's euphemistic name for those who will not be in the Euro area at 1 January 1999 - anyway, the maintenance, for the 'outs', of the instrument of assistance for balances of payments provided for in Article 109 H after EMU has come into effect; the second question relates to the implementation of financial assistance provided for by Article 103 A, paragraph 2, for a Euro State which is in difficulties.
Now, in accordance with Article 109 K, paragraph 6, of the Treaty on the European Union, the Commission recalls the fact that the 'outs' will continue to benefit from this financial support facility for balances of payments provided for by Article 109 H.
So what the Commission will have to do will be to check whether the regulation currently in force, that of 24 July 1988, still applies, and secondly, whether the line of 14 million Ecus, let us call them Euros, written into the Community budget is still appropriate.
The second problem is that of financial assistance for a State within the EMU.
Firstly, Article 103 A, paragraph 2, pursues a different objective to that of Article 109 H.
Indeed, it institutes an exceptional facility which should permit a Member State which is, I quote the Treaty: ' in difficulties or is seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control' to confront them.
The second comment is that Article 103 A, paragraph 2, was not created to respond to balance of payments crises, but to really exceptional events, for example earthquakes, tidal waves, or comets which might crash into Member States, the list is not exhaustive, of course.
However, on the occasion of next year's review of this loan facility for balances of payments, the Commission, with the Council and Parliament, will look at how to implement the provisions of Article 103 A, paragraph 2.
The second question relates to the definition of instruments covered by Article 103 A, paragraph 2.
The third question concerns the regulation of application of Article 103 A, paragraph 2.
In conclusion, because I do not want to prolong the debate on this point, I am anxious, Mr President, to thank you and thank the Parliament for its suggestion, which opens a first track for the application of Article 103 A, paragraph 2 once the third phase on economic and monetary union has come into effect.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Competitiveness of European industry The next item is the report (A4-0113/97) by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the communication from the Commission (COM(96)0463 - C4-0622/96) on benchmarking the competitiveness of European industry and the Commission Staff Working Paper concerning a European Quality Promotion Policy for Improving European Competitiveness.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the Commission Communication to Parliament and the report I have the honour of presenting to you have an obvious point of departure: European industry is currently less competitive than American industry and Japanese industry.
Benchmarking can be applied at various levels: it can be used to compare systems, framework conditions, and structural factors which are the responsibility of the public authorities; it can be use to test the efficiency of industry as a whole, or some of its sectors or subsectors; and finally some - or all - of the companies that compose them.
Although all these levels of comparison must concern them, it is obvious that this Parliament and the public institutions should concentrate their analysis on the framework conditions, the responsibility of the public authorities.
And to complete what may be called this 'methodological' or 'introductory' stage, I would say that the Commission starts from the sensible position that competitiveness is not an end in itself, but a means of obtaining better living standards and higher levels of welfare.
As regards services, there are three basic findings: the purchase of services absorbs 20 % of the profit and loss account of European industrial companies; European services, which affect competitiveness, are dearer than services in the United States and Japan; thirdly, there are sectors protected from competition and therefore less efficient.
And starting from these statements - which I agree with - two measures are advocated: liberalization of services - acceleration of the processes of liberalization already in progress - and opening up to competition - the opening up of those markets in service sectors that are still protected.
Starting from these findings, the report and the Communication it deals with come out in favour of benchmarking between our levels of investment and American levels of investment, of seeking formulae for cooperation and collaboration between the public sector and the private sector to finance investment in these difficult times and, thirdly, of encouraging all Union institutions to reduce differences in infrastructure between the various regions, making the principles of cohesion and solidarity effective.
There is just one finding about the labour market: our rates of employment and productivity are lower than those of our competitors and this translates into our lesser capacity to create jobs.
And an observation on R+D: our rate is lower than the American rate, the private sector effort is lower here and the American technique of tax incentives achieves better results than the aid we use here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, benchmarking is set in the context of both the drive for competitiveness and the pursuit of a new model of sustainable development which is more in keeping with the times.
It is therefore a question of countries benefiting each other in the long term, and in this sense, the drive for competitiveness without cooperation is misconceived.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and also the Commission for its proposals.
This is a report which is of genuine interest to a lot of the small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Europe and certainly to smaller companies in the area I have the privilege to represent - towns like Wolverhampton, Dudley or Halesowen in the industrial West Midlands.
If we do that then benchmarking can be a real opportunity for us to increase the competitivity of our businesses, increase profits in our businesses and, most of all, increase the job creation potential of our businesses.
We ought to look at our own successes and learn from them and, similarly, learn from the successful cases of countries in Europe which have lower unemployment rates compared to our main competitors, Japan and America.
I hope the Commission would accept that as a positive development.
Finally, in Paragraph 14, Parliament calls for the Commission to look at the quality of our managerial skills in Europe.
The fact remains that even our exports to the OECD countries have fallen since 1985.
The question then is why should employment be growing in the US, whereas here it is not just stagnating but disastrous?
Mr President, my dear colleagues, the report on the promotion of benchmarking - for which I would prefer it if we spoke, in correct French, about location and standardisation of performance - has the support of our group.
We consider that the Commission's document is heading in the right direction when it stresses the three possible levels to the subject, that is, level of performance in relation to framework conditions which should permit the evaluation of the capability of Europe to attract as a production zone because of costs, infrastructure, skills and innovation, that of sectors of activity which should permit the measurement of European industry's capability to adapt to globalisation and, finally, the level of businesses, which comes under their own responsibility but for which Community action could be useful to SMEs and could contribute to harmonisation of the methods employed.
All the same, it is advisedly that the Commission proposes, on the basis of a partnership between industry and the Member States, the establishment of a work programme for 1997 from pilot projects intended to test the validity and the feasibility of the application of benchmarking at the level of the European Union.
Indeed, we would have a few reservations about the benchmarking of framework conditions if the consequence of it was that matters which are essentially matters for subsidiarity were analysed at Community level, that is, the competence of Member States, such as the organisation of public bodies in their relations with industry, as is the case with energy policy for example.
We also think that it is difficult to make a useful comparison of macro-economic factors without taking account of the individual environmental, economic, social and cultural policy of each State.
We also think that it would be more sensible rather to give greater importance to the benchmarking of the industrial sectors, and we think that there is everything to congratulate, in this respect, in the work undertaken by the Dutch President in the electronics sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
Finally, we are also looking forward to having the results of the pilot projects that the Commission has launched, which the Industry Ministers are to examine on 24 April.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to say at the outset that I am in favour of benchmarking and that I shall be voting for the report.
The first thing that I want to say on this matter, Mr President, is that it is essential to make a clear distinction between means and ends.
Mr President, the Commission's communication on the competitiveness of European industry prompts me to make a number of comments.
I welcome the attempt to analyze the parameters for industrial competitiveness in a rational, scientific way, and I agree with the rapporteur on the need to maintain a strong production apparatus in Europe and to eliminate inefficiency and waste, while preserving the essential protection which has been achieved for the weakest members of society.
I believe that more should be done to utilize public research to increase industrial competitiveness, and I wonder whether benchmarking could be taken further in this area.
It seems to me that the fifth framework programme is designed along these lines, but I think that a further appraisal, based on the criteria proposed in this communication, would be useful for studying and evaluating other measures in terms of taxation, job motivation and mobility, with a view to improving the link between technology and industrial competitiveness.
One other thing is also as certain: it is necessary to have the means to measure this competitiveness and to act upon its causes and on any hindrances to it.
So I have nothing against the standardisation of performance as a tool, nor anything against comparisons for the purpose of choosing the best solution.
Of course Commissioner, I do not think so, as you know!
And like many of my colleagues here, I would say that competitiveness is not an end in itself.
Greater solidarity is needed therefore, particularly financial and fiscal solidarity, and if benchmarking has any use as a management tool, it should perhaps also be applied to the comparison and standardisation of the policies of the fifteen Member States in the domain of employment, with the prospect of a genuine partnership of these States.
In conclusion, Mr President, economic science certainly does need tools - and I approve of them - but take care lest the tool replaces the objective: it is the objective which should be reached using the tool, and if that is not the case harmonisation will always be downwards, and with that we return to the previous debate of the economic situation of the Union.
Mr President, I should firstly like to thank the rapporteur and all those Members who have taken part in this debate, since although the word benchmarking may not at first appear to be particularly meaningful, if we succeed in developing a method for determining why certain undertakings are successful in creating jobs and thereby combating unemployment, it will be an important step forward.
That can be a very great help.
Some undertakings have struck better deals than others with their workforce or with the unions, for instance on flexible working hours.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived at the second reading of the directive to define a system of harmonized codes for the particulars to be included in the Community model driving licence issued by the Member States.
We have discussed this proposal and the whole question of the driving licence at great length, perhaps even a little too much so.
Parliament adopted its opinion at first reading on 5 September 1996, calling amongst other things for the extension of mutual recognition by Member States to include provisions governing the suspension and withdrawal of a driving licence following an offence committed in a Member State other than the one which issued it, as well as the creation of an advisory committee to assist the Commission.
Of the eight amendments adopted by an overwhelming majority in the House, only two have been taken up by the Council: Amendment No 1, which adds a reference to subcodes to the text; the part of Amendment No 5 providing for harmonized codes 02 for hearing aids and 03 for mobility aids, so as to clarify these particulars, with the addition to codes 70 and 71 of a reference to the EC/UN symbols for third countries; and the part of Amendment No 5 concerning the addition of a code 79 to govern the equivalence between categories of licences issued before the entry into force of Directive 91/439/EEC on 1 July 1996 and the categories specified in Article 3 of that directive.
I must say that I am not at all satisfied with the conduct of the Commission and the Council, which rejected the bulk of our amendments - very important amendments which had been agreed with the representatives of all the political groups in Parliament, in other words with the clear backing of my colleagues and the other groups as well.
On behalf of the Committee on Transport, I basically decided to retable the two main amendments contained in my report which, as I said a moment ago, had already been approved at first reading in the House, seeking to extend the principle of mutual recognition of driving licences by Member States to include their suspension or withdrawal; indeed, it seems quite natural to me that if someone commits a serious offence against the law or human rights or a country's cultural heritage or anything else in one Member State, then that crime should be recognized in another, and the decision of the competent authority in the Member State where the offence was committed should have legal effect throughout the European Union.
Mr President, obviously we welcome this report because it serves to harmonize driving licences and develop a system of codes which can be easily understood by all authorities throughout the EU.
Therefore, it seems logical that Parliament should support the two amendments which I have retabled from first reading.
Of course it would be a great advantage if we could have the same rules for this in all the EU Member States and by so doing make it possible to recognise a driving licence regardless of which country the driver is in and the language in which the driving licence has been issued.
But we in the PPE group feel that the rapporteur has gone one step too far in wanting to delve into the area of criminal law as well.
If we want EU Member States to have common rules for withdrawing driving licences, a perfectly legitimate point of view, we must work towards putting forward a proposal for this.
The Commission has put forward a proposal to introduce a Community driving licence - which was what my and Commissioner Bangemann's old mentor, the late Cornelis Berkhouwer, always wanted - and now when we have come this far and are ready to introduce it across the Community, there are suddenly objections that if it is a licence from which points are deducted, it cannot be used on a Union-wide basis.
Mr President, the Council decided in September 1996 that Directive 91/439/EEC on driving licences, already amended in 1994 to include a temporary derogation for Finland and Sweden, should be further amended.
It is worth noting that the Committee on Legal Affairs decided in June 1996 not to deliver an opinion.
In my opinion, Mr Farassino has done a good job in achieving part of the intended objective, especially since some of the proposed amendments - though not all of them - have been accepted: at least there is a system of harmonized codes for the particulars to be included in the driving licence, such as the compulsory wearing of spectacles and the adaptation of vehicles for disabled drivers.
It makes sense to me that Parliament should wish to extend mutual recognition by the Member States to include provisions for the suspension and withdrawal of driving licences, a proposal which the Council has taken on board, moreover, in announcing the setting-up of a European committee, to be known as the committee on driving licences, whose task will be to harmonize an approach to safe driving in the various Member States.
Mutual recognition of driving penalties constitutes a vital element if the free movement of persons within the common market is to become a reality.
Mr President, a driving licence entitles the holder to move freely in a motor vehicle within the European Union.
If a citizen of the EU decides to live or work in another Member State, it has hitherto been necessary for him to exchange his driving licence within a certain time limit.
This applies in particular to disabled driving licence holders, since the system of harmonized codes will now set out the conditions for driving a motor vehicle in a clearly non-discriminatory way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Council's common position on the creation of a standard Community model for national driving licences.
In order to achieve these goals, it is necessary for all particulars - all additional information and restrictions that must be recorded in a driving licence - to be presented in a non-linguistic form.
I should like to thank the Council for its common position, in which it takes over the amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading and accepted by the Commission.
Now we are talking about 1 July 1997!
And all we are saying in this report, or at least all the amendments say, is that such a ban should be recognized throughout the European Union.
It could of course be said, simply in terms of human logic, that it can surely make no difference if a person receives a driving ban in an EU country which is not his country of residence.
As you know, the proposal provides that if a person receives a driving ban in his country of residence, the ban is valid throughout the Union.
Not all Member States support these amendments as enthusiastically as Parliament.
That would surely be an unsatisfactory outcome, whereas the proposal represents a first step forward, which may achieve good results if all the Member States find it reasonable in practice.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
One of the objectives of the Regulation governing on the spot controls is to ensure that there is a standardised level of protection for the Community budget in all Member States.
The Commission's annual report on fraud clearly shows the great variety of measures taken and generally speaking - this is something we should remember - there is deception in all of the EU Member States.
However, the Commission seems to be focusing its criticism on the southern countries alone, and that is reflected in the revision of the single market regulation in the case of olive oil.
In the report which is produced every year both for this House and for the public we have clearly and distinctly shown that there are irregularities in both Southern and Northern States within the European Union.
It is worth mentioning here that the Commission's Financial Control has started to draw up agreements with individual Member States.
These agreements are intended to help find a system for following up each project, for evaluating the use of funds in each country and for achieving a general improvement in cooperation which will encourage us to take care that tax payer's money is handled in a responsible way.
The proposed reform of the COM in olive oil does indeed devote particular attention to the situation in the south of Europe.
According to Commissioner Fischler, who is after all responsible for the agricultural sector, there were a number of reasons which made a change in the form of aid to olive producers necessary, as the aid and the existing organisation was inadequate.
As the author is not present, Question No 31 falls.
The enlargement of the internal market with the addition of hundreds of millions of consumers will mean enormous benefits for the existing Member States in terms of greater trade and economic activity.
In addition to the work being carried out by its own services, the Commission is also looking at other scientific research in this field, including research into the anticipated economic benefits.
I hope that this impact study will provide a concise analysis and will attempt to make a quantitative evaluation of the benefits of such a step.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 33 and 34 fall.
The agreement takes the form of a ministerial declaration adopted on 13 December 1996 in Singapore to which there are fourteen parties, including the European Community.
It sets out the general objective of tariff elimination by the year 2000 for a detailed list of information technology products.
These two conditions have now been met.
On 24 March, the Council took a formal decision for the EC to conclude the ITA.
It noted that more than 90 % of world trade was covered and agreed to the staging requests of certain participants.
I am grateful to the Commissioner for that information, but I had hoped he would take the opportunity to clarify what concessions had to be made as regards customs duties on information technology products at that meeting to gain advantages in trade in alcohol, because that was not made clear.
We would like complete transparency about the real weight on each side of the scales, as well as the reaction of the national governments to this agreement, because it is astonishing to promise a three-stage reduction in tariffs on trade in semiconductors up to the year 1999, if we still hope to achieve the planned strong increase in jobs in the European Union through exports, and if greater access is being achieved, as promised, for European industry through better quality of equipment at more competitive prices.
Mr Commissioner, I would just like fuller information on that.
As far as the ITA itself is concerned, I mentioned that there were provisions for special staging by agreement.
Two separate investigations into alleged dumping on the one hand, and alleged subsidization on the other hand, of farmed Atlantic salmon originating in Norway were initiated by the Commission on 31 August 1996.
We now know more about this issue due to what has recently been written in the World Fisheries' Report , where it was stated that there are plans for both duties and special penalty taxes.
For example in our archipelago in Finland we have not asked for a single Mark in investment assistance from the Pesca programme for fish farming because the situation is such that prices have dropped from 25 to 15 Marks per kilo.
The honourable lady is quite right to draw attention to the fact that - by implication - if measures are introduced, these will not be for the benefit of any one country or any one group of fishermen.
Since then, the Commission has maintained regular contacts with the NGOs, which have expressed their specific interest in participating in the project.
The Commission can confirm that the project has been designed in a way which ensures that it will solely benefit the local Tibetan population.
Surely it would make a lot more sense if it were to take place before implementation of the project because that would ensure that anything untoward or any difficulties that might occur could be avoided.
In a sense it will be before the project really gets under way, but of course it cannot be done except as part of the project.
In that sense it is happening at the very beginning in order to make sure that nothing happens during the course of the project which renders the situation worse than it was before anything was done on the ground.
Question No 39 will not be taken as it deals with a subject which is already on the agenda for this part-session.
The instrument is designed to eliminate the trade distortion caused by imports of goods at dumped prices and does not therefore inhibit fair access to the Community market for producers in any country, developed or otherwise.
Furthermore, the scheme provides for additional preferences, that is to say at further reduced preferential rates of duty, to be granted from 1 January next year to beneficiary countries which effectively respect the standards of certain International Labour Organization conventions including Convention 138 relating to child labour.
Wilkinson of Kendal and Stead McAlpine of Carlisle who very much fear that the imposition of such high duties on grey cloth will create unemployment, inflation and irreparable damage to the textile industry, not only in the UK but across the European Union?
If anti-dumping duties are ultimately rejected by the Council of Ministers, is there any question of compensation for those companies who have been adversely affected?
Finally, given that the effect of these anti-dumping duties has been to distort the market in the textile industry and the relationship between spinners, weavers and finishers and that European finishers have been put at a serious disadvantage by these anti-dumping duties, is there not a case for anti-dumping duties to be imposed throughout the textile industry and not in just one part of it?
The Council must decide within one month, by 20 May, if the measures are to be applied.
Therefore I do not think we need to hark back to The Financial Times .
But the substance of the question is an important one.
But remember, working with eleven languages has its obligations.
Question No 41 by Mr Lindqvist (H-0258/97) Subject: Streamlining the Structural Funds The day-to-day management of EU Structural Fund operations is heavily criticized on account of its red tape and delays with payments.
The same goal applies in the relatively affluent Member States with regard to their less-favoured regions.
Given that the Structural Funds are used to cofinance national measures, it is clear from this situation that national structural policy is not, as a rule, any more efficient than its European counterpart.
Another point to bear in mind is that this Community funding is used for additional, strategic projects which would otherwise be implemented only at a later date or not at all.
The Commission will present its proposals for the reform of structural policy as part of the Santer Package in July this year, and will spell them out in detail in its proposals for a review of the Structural Funds regulation in early 1998.
But partnership implies an input from all the partners, and I believe that the experience of the European Union and the Commission has greatly helped the development of regional structural policy in Finland and Sweden in every respect.
I have a very specific question for the Commissioner.
The proposals that the Commission will make will be based firstly on the conclusions of the cohesion report and secondly on the deliberations of the so-called cohesion forum that is to be held at the end of this month, with input from the European Parliament.
We should wait until we have specific proposals before us, which can then be discussed in detail by the House.
Secondly, in deciding the future of Objective 2 regions, will the Commission take into account that Objective 2 regions which have received support have been able to deal with the problem of industrial decline in the past but are still not yet able to show value-added production, and will therefore need to have ongoing support beyond 1999 if they are to regenerate the traditional industrial areas.
We have just voted in the Committee on Regional Policy on my report on the implementation of funds in the UK, and we are very much aware that employment rates are higher in the UK.
Of course, Mrs McCarthy, we shall consider carefully any information that we receive concerning unemployment trends in Member States.
Mrs Wulf-Mathies, we are anxious to know what will be the criteria for the future structural funds in the context of enlargement of the Community to poorer countries, and I applaud the fact that aid to the most needy will be compatible with maintaining internal Union solidarity with those regions where structural problems generate unemployment in countries with advanced economies.
Do the studies you have carried out cover the possibility of putting some kind of limit on aid as a function of gross domestic product, in case major Community aid to recently joined countries in a deep state of poverty cannot be absorbed by their economies?
Because this is probably the challenge of designing the future structural funds as from 1999.
I would point out first of all that we are in the process of discussing with all those affected and involved what we have learned from previous funding periods and the decisions that we shall have to take on future structural support, and I believe that the Commission is right to begin by consulting widely, rather than leaping forward with proposals and taking decisions which could then only be changed with great difficulty.
Indeed, these three elements are essential if our structural policies are to succeed at all, and we shall certainly take that into account - not least in relation to enlargement towards the east - when we put forward our proposals in the Santer Package.
As the time allocated for this part of Question Time to the Commission has run out, Questions Nos 43, 44 and 45 will be answered in writing.
Question No 46 by Mr Teverson (H-0197/97), taken over by Mr Mulder.
Now the United Kingdom has submitted a working document to the Commission which is intended to show that the conditions laid down in Florence have been met.
In answer to the question about other Member States, the Commission has already approved BSE control programmes for France and Portugal.
Although the risk in these countries is substantially less than that in the United Kingdom, stringent measures are being taken to ensure that public health is protected.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for his reply to the question by my colleague, Mr Teverson.
Excuse me, Mr Commissioner, but the interpreters need to finish informing the various Members in the eleven languages.
If there is a simple majority of Member States in favour, the proposal will go back to the Commission, which will then take the final decision.
Question No 47 by Mrs Thors (H-0209/97) Subject: Export aid for live animals for slaughter Despite new provisions on the transport of animals, the cruelty is continuing, especially in connection with the export of live cattle for slaughter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by assuring you that the Commission shares the European Parliament's growing concern for the welfare of animals that are traded between the Union and third countries, and it has already expressed that concern in answers to numerous written and oral questions.
For example, at Question Time in December last year, I promised to consider how export refunds for live cattle might be linked to compliance with the transport directive, even where animals were being transported beyond the borders of the European Union.
For its part, the Commission has already begun discussions with the Member States with a view to cancelling refunds to exporters who have manifestly failed to comply in full with the rules on the welfare of animals in transit.
However, measures to this effect will require an amendment to Regulation No 805/68 on the common organization of the market in beef, and certain amendments to implementing provisions.
Unfortunately the update shows that no improvements have taken place since then.
When we talk about cancelling refunds in respect of live cattle or cattle for slaughter, then as I see it we have to deal with two separate issues.
The issue that I addressed in my answer was that of seeking to cancel refunds in cases where we can prove that a shipper of live cattle has breached Union rules, in particular those of the transport directive.
In the longer term, we might also have a second and possibly more effective sanction in such cases, because as you know, the new transport directive requires anyone trading in or shipping live cattle to hold a licence.
The other issue that you raised is whether all refunds in respect of live cattle ought not to be cancelled.
These problems could be avoided only by halting the live transport of animals for slaughter and slaughtering them in Europe.
Mr President, Mrs Anttila, we need to be clear about something here: when we talk about slaughter capacities, we have to realize that slaughter capacity in one location is not simply equivalent to slaughter capacity in another, because many countries that import beef from the European Union demand very particular slaughtering procedures.
exports to third countries, we depend on cooperation from the Member States.
I would also remind you that two years ago, when the transport directive was being adopted, the Commission asked for three specialist inspectors to be employed exclusively to pursue this matter in third countries.
Finally, I would also point out that we are in the process of drafting rules that would allow us to involve nongovernmental organizations - in particular animal protection organizations - in monitoring shipments of livestock.
Mr Harrison, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is not yet in a position to answer your question conclusively.
However, the Commission can assure you, Mr Harrison, that permission for the use of additives is granted on the basis of a very stringent assessment procedure which puts the safety of consumers first.
The Commission recently took an extremely thorough look at the problem of resistance to antibiotics in animals, the possibility of that resistance being transferred to humans and the loss of effectiveness of certain antibiotics, in connection with a particular antibiotic named Avorparcin, and it decided on 30 January this year, on the basis of its findings, to prohibit Avorparcin.
This is a precautionary measure, and it will be reviewed before 31 December 1998, in the light of new test results.
Nonetheless, the Commission intends to initiate a number of studies on this question, and it has also asked the industry to carry out a programme of surveillance for antibiotic resistance in animals.
Adams of Nantwich, in several respects.
Finally, you talk about the onus being on Sweden to give the scientific evidence as to why it should be allowed to continue to ban the use of antibiotics in pig feed.
As the time allocated for this part of Question Time to the Commission has run out, Questions Nos 49 to 91 will be answered in writing.
Question Time is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this directive is somewhat obscure.
The problem which this directive sets out to address is one that has surfaced repeatedly, namely the possibility of a bankruptcy at one bank and the adverse consequences this could then have for interbank payment systems, affecting in turn the ability of those systems to function and, in a worst-case scenario, dragging down other banks as well - in other words, the possibility of one bankruptcy leading to others.
The proposed directive sets out to avoid such a situation.
But on the other hand, one has to ask how far such measures can go without unduly damaging the concept of creditor protection in possible bankruptcy proceedings.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for which I was the rapporteur, took the view that it made sense in principle to have such a directive.
In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we regarded this as an unsatisfactory solution because, in effect, decisions on the opening of bankruptcy proceedings are often taken in the privacy of a judge's chambers and no one outside knows the precise moment of the decision, so problems of the retrospective settlement of transactions which had already taken place would not be avoided, but would inevitably continue to arise in every case of insolvency.
Finally, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to choose a different point in time, namely the moment when the banks participating in the payment system are informed of the opening of proceedings.
These are the three main elements covered by the amendments that have been tabled here.
The rapporteur had to refer back to an incident that happened in 1974 in order to make any sort of case for the necessity of this directive.
We are in agreement with the rapporteur.
We accept the amendments that have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and the new Amendment No 21.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to take the floor to express the unalloyed support of the Group of the European People's Party for the guidelines established in this report by Mr Lehne, rapporteur for the main committee.
So the Group of the European People's Party will vote for all the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, and for Amendment No 21 which we have tabled.
Indeed, this proposal represents an important step towards the greater liberalization of capital movements in the European Union.
Whereas in principle the free movement of capital is fully guaranteed, in practice a number of obstacles still remain, such as the fact that payment systems and securities settlement systems are still not adequate to ensure true freedom of movement across borders, because of the existence of different legal systems in the various Member States.
We note, turning to the individual amendments, that this is the thrust of Amendments Nos 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16 and 17.
Amendment No 1 seeks to modify the title of the directive: although such a change is acceptable to the Commission, its effect would be to indicate in the title that the directive relates to these systems in cases where institutions participating in them are involved in insolvency proceedings.
Perhaps the following title could be adopted: ' proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the systemic risk inherent in payment systems and securities settlement systems' .
However, the depositing of the agreement on which the system is based with the authorities responsible for supervising the institutions participating in the system, followed by the publication of a notice announcing the fact, strikes us as unnecessarily complicated.
The same applies to the addition of the words 'rules for clearing balances in connection with settlement' in Amendment No 10, since such a wording could detract from the clarity of our definition of a payment system.
For the purposes of the proposal, a system is called an EC system if the law applicable to the agreement on which it is based is the law of a Member State.
Amendment No 11 does nevertheless seek to introduce such a geographical concept by suggesting that a system is located in the Member State where the book entry takes place.
Amendment No 12 expands the original definition of a third country payment system by using the more general term 'third country system' , so as to include securities settlement systems.
In principle we can accept this modification, but we need to complete it by adding the words 'securities settlement systems' .
Since the central banks carry out transactions in financial derivatives, these must indeed be included in the definition of monetary policy operations, as proposed by Amendment No 13.
Amendment No 16 contains three paragraphs, the first of which gives us no cause for concern.
The second replaces the words 'contracts entered into' with the words 'contracts entered in the EC system' .
The effect of paragraph 3 of Amendment No 16 is to delay the opening of insolvency proceedings against an institution participating in the system until the moment when the competent authority formally notifies the other participants that proceedings have been opened.
This seems to be an excessively cumbersome procedure, because news of the bankruptcy of a participant in a system tends to spread very quickly through the financial markets; moreover, such a procedure would extend the preferential regime, as established under the directive, beyond the moment when the participants in the system actually learn of the insolvency in question, which cannot be justified in terms of attempting to avoid systemic risk; we therefore have difficulty in accepting Amendment No 16, and the same applies to No 21.
Amendment No 17 states that payment orders or orders for securities transactions may not be revoked after the opening of insolvency proceedings.
It is clear, in fact, that if this were to happen in respect of a substantial sum, systemic risk could occur: the reference to third parties must therefore be preserved.
Amendment No 18 is acceptable since it helps to clarify the text.
No 19 proposes the deletion of the article whereby, in the event of the insolvency of a participant in the system, the insolvency law applicable is that of the country where the system is located.
That deletion would run counter to the directive's goal of reducing systemic risk, and for two reasons in particular: the need to guarantee legal certainty, and the need to avoid conflicts of legislation.
All of which leads to the conclusion that the directive can achieve its goal of protecting systems from systemic risk only if Amendment No 19 is rejected.
The debate is closed.
The voting will take place tomorrow at noon.
The idea behind the single market was one of dynamic movement in the European Union and in 1985 when the Commission set out its idea in the White Paper for the single market programme, there was a belief that this would all be completed by 1992.
The pilot programme SLIM, simpler legislation for the internal market, came about because of the recognition of the need to ensure that the legislative acts which the Commission, Parliament and the Council adopt and ask the national authorities to transpose into national law should be as effective as possible in tackling the specific issues with which they are concerned.
Secondly, as from now we should start to make our new legislation simpler.
In that regard I would draw the attention of all Members to the length of my report.
We must also ask the national governments to ensure that they have a simpler legislative process where individual citizens can understand the whole process.
Simpler legislation for the internal market, I believe, has key potential to improve the competitiveness, profitability and, most importantly of all, the job creation potential of businesses the length and breadth of the European Union.
But success in this area will only come about if we have an inclusive approach.
I would like briefly to touch on two or three areas which are of key concern.
Firstly, we need to introduce our legislation in such a way that it is impossible for national governments to gold-plate the legislation.
The Commission produced an excellent document in February of last year called 'National Regulations Affecting Products in the Internal Market: a Cause for Concern' .
It was never formally adopted by the Commission, yet it shows clearly how it is national legislation as well as our own legislation that creates problems.
But what strike me on this matter, are the superabundance of means and, somewhere, the modesty of results.
On the subject of construction products - I quote our rapporteur - the situation is not very clear.
On the subject of the recognition of diplomas, you are going to make some proposals.
The rapporteur certainly gave a practical example of that spirit, and it is clear from the Commission's pilot project, which is before the House today, that the spirit of moderation is now to be taken seriously in the process of enacting European legislation.
When we succeeded in simplifying things at National level there were cynics who said that it was like carting away standards in a wheelbarrow - then in comes a lorry from the EU.
We could decide, for example, within this sector and other sectors, that from a particular time onwards a regulation is valid for five years unless it is renewed.
Mr President, my dear colleagues, I hope to congratulate the Commission on the SLIM initiative which can only meet with approval in its principle, even if the pilot project looks, especially in its state, like an operation of aesthetico-legal surgery.
Indeed, I am sorry that the four sectors chosen are so far removed from the daily concerns of European citizens.
What is more, the simplification of legislation relating to the internal market must not in the future at any event, become the Trojan horse of European deregulation, of which you can measure daily the social divisions it creates and the increases in unemployment which it feeds.
Finally, I note with disappointment, as it relates to the future of the SLIM initiative, the total absence of common vision between the Executive Committee, the 'Internal Market' Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs.
Thirdly, we feel that it is extremely important to include simplification and accessibility in the work being done on fiscal harmonization.
Commissioner Bangemann made the point here in the House that 80 % of the 440 new pieces of legislation introduced in 1994 were initiated by the Member States.
I would say not.
On ornamental plants, a large majority of Member States are in favour of simplifying the directive and opposed to an optional directive system.
The Commission intends to present a detailed proposal by May, in keeping with the timetable which has been drawn up.
In the committee responsible for this sector, the Commission came up against vigorous opposition from the Member States to any amendment of the directive.
Here I would make one comment: we are all, in principle, in favour of simplicity and simplification, but what I hope is one of the merits of this procedure is that it demonstrates how difficult simplification is in practice, and how many calls for simplification encounter resistance from those in the Member States who would be affected by simplification.
I should now like to say a few words concerning the second phase and the choice of sectors which Mr Crowley also mentioned.
I have no time to explain why we have pursued this approach or why I intend to propose these particular sectors to the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The voting will take place tomorow at noon.
Parliament, in its first reading, recommended a Type II(b) committee.
The Council, in its wisdom, decided to ignore both the wishes of the Commission and of Parliament and has put in the common position a recommendation for a III(b) committee.
Nor does the common position include a reference to the modus vivendi which was agreed between the three institutions in 1995.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is quite unanimous that this common position is not in the interests of parliamentary democracy or transparency and it is not democratic.
Consequently, the Legal Affairs Committee voted unanimously to restore the original amendments in the first reading and to return to these in the second reading.
The Legal Affairs Committee is quite adamant that the Council should not seek to undermine Parliament in this way and we wish to go to conciliation to sort out these difficulties.
Since the vote in the Legal Affairs Committee, a number of further concerns have come to my attention.
The Declaration 1 runs counter to the modalities set out in Decision 87/373, as it is the Commission which is assisted by the committee and not the chairman as is usual.
The declaration concerning Article 1(6) talks about the practice followed, systematic use and consulting the securities committee when it plans to submit new proposals.
I maintain that the guardian of the people of the European Union is the Parliament.
If the Commission and the Council flout the wishes of this Parliament, then we will have dictatorial bureaucracy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact I hardly need to take the floor here.
The establishment of this committee, to sit alongside the banking advisory committee and the insurance committee, will constitute another step towards the completion of the internal market.
In this context, account will clearly have to be taken of the need to involve Parliament in the process of updating the directives, as was agreed under the modus vivendi of 1994.
Secondly, the new committee will have an advisory role, providing scope for useful exchanges of views between the Member States' representatives and the Commission concerning developments on the securities markets.
Turning to the amendments proposed by Parliament at first reading, the Commission is willing to accept Amendment No 3.
Indeed, in our amended proposal we have already seen fit to add a recital referring to the previously agreed modus vivendi .
In our view, there is no reason to confer on the securities committee the power to take urgent decisions, as exists under the Type II(b) procedure.
For this reason, the Commission is obliged to reject Amendments Nos 2, 6 and 9, all of which relate to the committee procedure.
I hope that Parliament will be prepared to reconsider its original position on this matter and lend its backing to the Commission's draft text.
Amendments Nos 1, 7 and 10 are not acceptable, since they propose to abolish the committee's advisory role, which in the Commission's view is its principal function.
Amendment No 4 seeks to abolish any reference to the requirement for the new securities committee to cooperate with other committees, such as the banking advisory committee.
Finally, I would point out that to accept Amendments Nos 5 and 8 would uncouple the planned system from the directives on investment services and capital adequacy which, pending the establishment of the securities committee, stipulated that certain duties were to be performed by the Council.
The debate is closed.
And for that I want to pay tribute to my colleagues on the Committee on Legal Affairs.
The first point I feel bound to approach as rapporteur is the need and justification for this Community action.
This right was introduced in France in 1920 and has been extremely beneficial.
The legal arrangements of 11 of the 15 Member States, as well as the Berne Convention, currently include resale right amongst author's rights.
As this is a question of intellectual property it comes under article 100A of the Treaty of the European Community, as established by the Court of Justice ruling of 13 July 1995 in the case of Spain versus the Council.
We must protect the legitimate interests of plastic artists because recognition of creation and establishment of authors' rights is one of the essential features of European culture.
In the case of literary, musical or audiovisual works, there is no controversy in the European Union about the recognition of authors and the establishment of certain specific rights for them by reason of their creations, but the same does not apply to plastic artists for various reasons which I cannot go into in this speech.
But we also have a responsibility to protect the interests of dealers as well as artists, because in the end without either the market would not exist, and the essential interests of dealers cannot be affected without negative repercussions on artists.
I now come to the actual justification for Community action in terms of the specific need for harmonization.
In addition to the legal reasons in favour of this initiative, it is hard to sidestep the reality that disparities in national provision on resale right, which does not exist in four Member States, produce distortions in the internal market.
In fact those who hold that the introduction of a resale right would cause a relocation of sales to centres outside the European Union cannot avoid the fact that this same reasoning, applied inside the European Union, results in centres which do not have resale right attracting sales to the detriment of those located in Member States which do regulate this right.
To summarize this general part, the rapporteur's broad focus on the issues raised, which virtually coincides with the solution adopted by 20 votes in favour and 3 abstentions in the Committee on Legal Affairs, after lengthy debates and hearings of the various interest groups, is that the Commission's initiative is legitimate and perfectly grounded in the text of the treaties.
I would like to make one last general comment before briefly dealing with the wording of the proposal for a directive.
This is not only because, after the many debates, I do not think reliable data exist to carry out such a study beyond what the Commission has already done, but also because of consistency with this Parliament's function as co-legislator.
Finally we also agree with the Commission on the threshold of application contemplated in article 3.
The rapporteur proposes the adoption of Amendment No 57, tabled by the European People's Party, or the very similar No 21, originating from the Committee on Legal Affairs, as a reasonable solution which responds to the principles constituting the identity of European culture - that is, the protection of artistic creation - and fulfils the purpose of correcting distortions inside the single market and maintaining the competitiveness of the Union in the external market.
Mr President, I should like to say that our committee approved the principle of the artists' resale rights unanimously.
The arguments of the British Government are well known, but the arguments of the British Government are largely those of Sothebys and Christies.
The key, it seems to me, is that the artists themselves want this; a quarter-of-a-million artists in Europe want this Directive for a number of reasons, not least to get back part of their heritage and to understand the nature of their market.
We, in Parliament, should be on the side of the artists, not on the side of the auction houses.
Mr President, I want to start by congratulating the Commission on this initiative.
I think the twenty-odd amendments passed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and others presented by the Socialist Group, are aimed at improving the text presented by the Commission.
I also want to draw the Commission's attention to Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 18 - as well as part of Amendment No 9 - which define the scope of resale right to exclude manuscripts, but deal with resale right in a work which has a certain originality and is intended to be viewed.
Finally, Mr President, I hope that the amendments from the Committee on Legal Affairs and some of the socialist amendments, which we hope will be approved, can rely on Commission support at the second stage of approval by the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the stamina and patience which she has shown in drawing up her report.
In the light of the closing discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I should like to emphasize in particular once again that resale rights are a matter of copyright in favour of the artist, and not a tax to benefit the Member States.
The discussions revolved around two issues in particular: whether we need to harmonize resale rights at all; and, if so, how these rights should then be expressed in terms of percentages for each band.
We have some Member States where there are no resale rights, and others where there is a right of 5 %.
There are already resale rights in California, and efforts are in fact being made in the USA to introduce them throughout the country.
Turning to the bands and the percentages for resale rights, there are major differences in the Member States.
Mr President, this proposal for a directive aims to eliminate major legal disparities between the States, from the absence of resale rights in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, to the highest rates in Portugal.
The Commission, using this disparity, has attempted an average proposal forgetting that, in certain States, the resale right appears in texts, but has no application in fact, forgetting that in some countries in the Union no true art market exists, or exists any longer.
But the reality of the figures is implacable: less than 10 % of resale rights benefit artists who are still alive.
What is more, far from favouring young artists, the resale right has a perverse effect.
Today, they go to London or Geneva, but once harmonisation has been achieved under the current conditions of the proposal, it could be feared that the market will move to New York, thus eliminating any art market worthy of the name in the Union.
So, the objective of social protection which the European legislator has set itself will not be achieved.
It seems to me equally important to put in place a significant resale right for the works of artists who are starting out or who are little known, as it is to set the resale right for internationally renowned artists close to zero, insignificant, since the cost of relocating the sale is derisory in comparison with the right which may be earned.
In this domain, as in many others, let us refrain from an excess of zeal, the better being the enemy of the good.
Mr President, the lack of legal harmonization in artists' rights to participate in the benefits generated by their work is currently distorting competition and undermining the proper functioning of the internal market.
This proposal for a directive should be understood as an attempt to put an end to this perverse situation, and it is high time to do so.
The first - and here I agree with the previous speakers - is the ending of a market distortion based on legal differences originating from markets which have a privileged position because of national legislation, since they do not have to take account of resale rights.
An area without internal borders must also be a market without privileges.
This proposal on the resale right sends out a very clear political message, and that is quite simply the European Union's insatiable desire for expansion, or to put it in EU speech: the proposal violates both the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality.
But the existing research shows that the resale right has effect firstly on sales in the country of sale when the work of art in question has a sale price of at least 50, 000 ECUs.
In other words, the attempts at harmonization contained in the proposal are targeted at under 5 %, probably only 2-3 %, of combined sales.
For Scandinavian artists, where we have had the resale right - in Denmark's case for several years - the proposal simply means a significant reduction.
Scandinavian artists have, in a joint statement, protested against the proposal and this reduction, which Marianne Eriksson will be addressing in a subsequent speech.
This right exists in certain States; it does not exist in others.
This situation distorts the internal market.
Thirdly, we do not have the right to misjudge the globalisation of the art market and the effects of relocation, today to London, tomorrow to New York, Tokyo or elsewhere.
The socialist group has taken these elements into account, which have led it to propose a wide range of rates, going from 5 % for modest works to ensure the adequate remuneration of young artists or works of art by nature not very commercial, to 1 % for more important works.
I note that there is some difficulty over agreement - including within my group - because of the diversity of traditions and interests.
I hope, for my part, that a substantial majority of you will stand out for the proposals presented.
Otherwise, I am afraid that by letting things go we will see worse relocations, to the detriment of artists as well as to all the intermediaries and other active parties in the art market in Europe.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has undertaken.
The fact that I disagree with her in no way detracts from the hard work she has put in on this report.
My starting point is simply this.
If the objective were to be harmonization then both the Commission directive and the Palacio Vallelersundi report would fail to hit the mark.
In any event, as Mr Krarup has said, these proposals lack proportionality.
I would remind the House that if you look at the market in France alone, 75 % of the droit de suite raised goes to only six families.
I would draw the attention of both the Commission and the House to the fact that three Member State governments are clearly against the application of this directive.
There are several reasons for this: the principle of subsidiarity to which I have already referred; the fact that harmonization in this case is simply not justified; thirdly, there is no convincing evidence that the absence of the right in some Member States and the difference between other Member States creates barriers to trade.
I would also add that the main international copyright convention - the Berne Convention - to which all Member States are party, gives freedom whether or not to apply this right.
If this directive and the amendments tabled to the Palacio Vallelersundi report were adopted, it would result in a net loss to the European Union - a loss of earnings and jobs in the European Union.
So, in the words of Mr Kerr, I conclude by saying: Let the market decide and let the market be.
If this Directive is adopted it will be necessary not only for the three Scandinavian Member countries of Sweden, Finland and Denmark but also for Norway and Iceland to amend their existing legislation.
Moreover, our enthusiastic support for the extension, judicious harmonization and proper application of resale rights stems from a policy line which we have always vociferously advocated.
I believe that everything has already been said, in particular by Mrs Palacio, so I shall confine myself to just one comment.
The idea remains in that form and the owner, the holder of the intellectual property, always remains the same because the idea cannot be sold.
The initial sale of a book involves high production costs, and its author receives a percentage, whereas the creator of a figurative artwork receives almost the entire proceeds of the first sale.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to make a point of thanking the Commission for taking this initiative.
The differences between rules in the EU are obstructing the internal market and the equal treatment of artists in the Union.
It is completely unfair if a British person who sells a work in Germany or Portugal obtains resale rights, but a Portuguese or German person does not obtain such rights in the United Kingdom if they sell a work there.
The market and market conditions are extremely tough for artists.
Half the sale price goes to the gallery owner or art dealer, and it is not asking too much for these dealers or owners to hand over part of the proceeds when they resell these works.
That is why it is so important for us as socialists and social democrats that the 5 % rate for resale rights should apply to the lowest band.
There is another problem with Amendment No 57.
There are in fact only a few works involved here, and the auctioneers in France have worked out for us that all of 120 works are sold for more than ECU 250 000 each year.
I also think that the Commission's proposal is a very good one.
I would therefore call for this generous scheme to be adopted, without too many disadvantages being created for German artists, who are in fact used to always receiving 5 %.
Resale rights are particularly important in relation to artists in the field of the plastic arts, who are the least protected of creative artists in this matter owing to the unique and un-reproducible nature of their works.
The Palacio Vallelersundi report is a serious and balanced piece of work, since it tries to reconcile the various conflicting interests - those of the dealers and those of the artists.
Secondly but no less important, the recognition of the social role of the arts as a force for development which should take the form of the setting up of support mechanisms for artists.
Since the law in Portugal is considerably more severe than the present proposal for a directive, I should like to stress the clear advantage of giving consideration to the following amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture which reflect the unanimous concerns of artists: the lowering of the minimum threshold for the application of the provisions of Article 3; the amending of the sliding scale of percentages provided for in Article 4; the promotion of the joint administration of the right provided for in Article 6.
I should also like to point out, as I have done on so many occasions, that it is again clear that Article 128 should be amended so that it can be used as a basis for any texts with a bearing on culture.
Nor does the Commission mention it in its proposals.
Furthermore, the dealers naturally also make money out of this system, between 10 and 20 % in fact, and that is why they are campaigning so vigorously as well.
To get down to the facts, I should like to give an example of how what the Legal Affairs Committee is proposing would actually have worked out over the last 25 years.
You will ensure that no more works by Picasso or Van Gogh are sold in the European Union, that nothing at all is sold, and that art is no longer talked about in the EU.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to compliment the rapporteur on her report and to offer her my support.
Harmonization of the resale right for the benefit of authors in the European Union seems to me a very good and justifiable initiative.
If the European experience in this field proves positive for the development of the art market generally, and for the promotion of new artists in particular, we must direct our efforts to making this right obligatory in all countries, given that the Berne Convention at present provides only for the possibility of the Member States introducing it into their legislation.
We are concerned that small antique and art shops in tourist areas may have difficulty as a result of this proposal.
My group is not in favour of reducing the threshold to 500 because of the burden on small- and medium-sized businesses, nor are we in favour of increasing the percentages.
My group will be abstaining on the final vote as we are simply not convinced that the Commission has properly made the case for harmonization in this area.
As the many speakers have indicated, the aim of this proposal for a directive is to eliminate distortions of competition by extending and harmonizing resale rights throughout the entire Community, and to put an end to the discriminatory treatment suffered by the authors of modern artworks.
The Commission therefore attaches considerable importance to this initiative, which does not stand alone but is connected with other measures adopted by the Commission to liberalize the art market.
The Commission can accept nearly all the amendments tabled by the Legal Affairs Committee.
The only substantive amendment which, on grounds of principle, it intends to reject at this stage concerns the percentage rates of resale rights laid down in Article 4 of the proposed directive.
Nor can the Commission accept certain other amendments, from various political groups and individual Members, which are designed to modify the minimum threshold for the application of resale rights, reducing or increasing the percentages to be applied and changing the proposed price bands.
To leave such matters to the discretion of the Member States would conflict with the goals of the internal market in the modern art sector.
I would point out that, generally speaking, art galleries should be subject to resale rights in exactly the same way as any other commercial trader in twentieth-century art.
Finally, the Commission has to reject various amendments seeking to insert in a Community act recitals which state that this same act should not be adopted.
With regard to Amendment No 40, which would make the directive's entry into force contingent on a further assessment by the Commission of the impact on the art resale market - an assessment to be validated by the other Community institutions involved in the legislative process - I must point out that this does not accurately reflect the institutional balance established by the Treaty on European Union.
I am convinced that in a second phase we shall be able to reach complete agreement on this proposal, taking account of all the potential risks for the future art market in Europe.
I thank you once again for a discussion which I personally have found very interesting, because it has highlighted both the complexity of this proposal and the gap which the proposal is designed to fill.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner Monti.
The debate is closed.
The voting will take place at noon tomorrow.
Mr President, thank you for that very catchy introduction to this report.
A clear agreement on this item would have completed that process but to this day the final stage eludes us.
We make two 'friendly' amendments in the report.
I would remind the Commission and Council of the concerns the European Parliament expressed in this regard at first reading, particularly as regards the use of trailers up to 750 kilogrammes without the need for those same trailers to have braking systems.
I sincerely hope that the Council and Commission can also take on board our constructive amendments in this regard.
The question they raise is will European harmonization jeopardize their right to operate their specialist vehicles?
The simple and short answer from this Parliament is that no such danger exists.
The only restriction is that those vehicles do not have the right to free movement to operate in the rest of Europe.
In conclusion, I hope we can now proceed with this proposal and that citizens will soon get the benefits of a safe single market in vehicles and their trailers.
If the textual changes that you now seem to believe would be necessary can be agreed without activating that procedure, I have no problem.
The debate is closed.
