We support your suggestion, Madam President, that the Commission should make a statement on this in connection with Mr Funk's report.
Let me assure the Members of this House that the decision taken by the British Government overnight concerns a more effective cull to get rid of the BSE problem more quickly and in that way we will all be able to get back to normality as quickly as possible.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss all this when we come to debate Mr Funk's report.
It now transpires, Madam President, that the vote on the report on excise duties was carried by a single vote.
The increase in excise duties on wine was carried by one vote.
In conclusion, the financial aid provided in the nuclear sector must, as a priority, be directed towards nuclear safety.
The Council repeated its request for the urgency procedure on 10 September.
These decisions were confirmed in Parliament by a large majority on 17 September.
The committee and Parliament rejected the Commission's proposals for financing the beef crisis.
These animals are calculated in addition to the upper limit.
You, Commissioner, have written in a major agricultural periodical about a successful programme in Austria, involving suckler cows.
In the current year and next year the European Commission is proposing to spend a total of more than ECU 3 billion in support for beef farmers in this crisis.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us, in this House and elsewhere, are fully familiar with the difficult situation currently prevailing in the beef and veal sector.
The BSE crisis as such has to be seen in the overall context of the beef and veal market, which - as I clearly stated within this House and to the Council at the beginning of this year - was already confronting a difficult situation.
The key proposals to cut beef and veal production are a slaughter programme for calves and the introduction of intervention for feeders and young male animals.
I admit that the proposal on the slaughtering of calves is very contentious, but it is a relatively easy measure to implement, as can be seen in the United Kingdom and Portugal.
I do wonder, though, whether the proposed period of 14 months - and stocks are to be increased only during that period - is too long a period.
I know that my package of proposals designed to remedy the problems in the beef market is the subject of controversy.
If that is the case, what are the implications for the proposals which have been discussed here this morning in Mr Funk's report?
Commissioner, my question is fairly straightforward and I hope the answer will be too.
Madam President, Mr Martens, in my opinion the matter is absolutely clear.
This has nothing to do with the question of whether we need, for example, a new regulation on intervention, where the 400, 000 tonne limit will be exceeded in the course of the coming month.
Otherwise the beef and veal market will collapse throughout Europe.
In the case of beef and veal - no less complex an issue - we got the documents on 5 September and today, 20 September, there are about a hundred of us here, on a Friday, to carry out the reform.
However, in addition, our Group would like to express its disagreement with the Commission's strategy on this subject.
It is unacceptable that, in dealing with a major crisis in the beef and veal sector, we should be presented with a package of proposals in which, simultaneously, there is amendment of the rules concerning support for producers of herbaceous crops and relating to improvements in efficacy of agrarian structures, linking the three sectors in budgetary terms and requiring financial sacrifice in some in order to support others.
But it is also obvious that there were necessary elements in this reform which justified our Group's position: accepting urgency in the case of one sector requiring solutions and rejecting it in others because, in budgetary terms, there is a margin which makes it possible to deal with the more urgent reforms and, in budgetary terms, it is possible, with a degree of imagination, to cover this House's proposals.
I also agree with Mr Fischler that it is essential in the short term to provide for an increase in intervention stocks.
I think it would be a good thing to reduce the carcase weight of calves by a given percentage for all countries of the European Union.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I am sure you realize that we are confronting a completely unexpected situation because of what happened yesterday evening.
That was my reasoning, on the understanding that once we had finished the debate and Commissioner Fischler had had another chance to speak, then other Members would be able to do so including, obviously, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Commissioner Fischler, you said that the measures adopted by the British government would be that government's responsibility.
And that in turn makes it necessary for our amendment to be adopted, in which we say that this premium should be paid only on meat which can be guaranteed and proven to originate from BSE-free stocks.
This is another motion from our group: as with the normal premiums, special premiums must not be paid on all stocks but only on the first 90 animals.
Secondly, relieving the burden on the markets without an excessive increase in intervention meat, by encouraging the early slaughter of calves, reducing premiums for intensive farming and granting additional aid to specialized farmers, because otherwise there will be a risk of a further decline in grassland in favour of arable land, which will then have to be aided or set aside.
The Commission is involving us in a vicious circle from which it will be very difficult to escape.
In this context, the decisions of the British government are clearly catastrophic.
Madam President, in a manner of speaking Mr Funk has attempted the impossible, although our ideas are not the same because our particular interests differ.
Madam President, we are witnessing a cataclysm in both economic and human terms.
Madam President, the Commissioner has made three proposals.
This morning we are dealing only with the first, a proposal to improve the intervention access, changes to the various premium schemes and other changes in the beef sector.
We have refused urgent treatment for the other two proposals.
I do not agree with all the details in the proposals before Parliament this morning.
These changes are needed immediately, otherwise there will be a further collapse in the market for beef.
Commissioner, I know you are doing your very best in a very difficult position, but your remarks about the British Government decision yesterday are far too charitable.
They ignore the damage and destruction caused to the beef industry in neighbouring Member States.
Now it is very clear that John Major is playing for time.
It may be achieved by the attitude of the wiser counsels of Sir Leon Brittan in his discussions with the Commissioner.
I believe that any unilateral decision by the British Government would be a breach of that agreement and a breach of trust.
I salute, as I know the Commissioner does, the Swiss Government's decision announced earlier this week to cull one-eighth of their herd, despite the fact that they have had only 290 cases of BSE.
We will continue to take out 30, 000 cattle a week, and nothing over 30 months will be going into the food chain.
In two Member States, this would result in a price cut of about 3 %, but in all Member States it would attain an order of magnitude of from 10 % to 15 %, which I trust is something no one in the European Union would want.
The Committee on Budgets gave an opinion on the Funk report on Tuesday evening.
After the event, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has tabled a total of six amendments to the Funk report.
These amendments were at no time the subject of discussion in the opinion prepared by the Committee on Budgets for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Thank you, Mr Samland.
Thank you, Mr Fantuzzi.
I shall now put the request for referral to the vote. (Parliament rejected the request for referral back to committee) Madam President, our group voted against the request, because we did not think the argument in favour of it made sense.
The debate is closed.
On Amendment No 22: Madam President, the Green Group's Amendment No 22 is identical, apart from two points, with the Agriculture Committee's Amendment No 16.
Madam President, I ask for the vote on the report to take place.
And Mr Cot can always say that he is not in favour.
Madam President, I am in agreement to the debate on bioethics taking place, but I would simply like to point out that I have a report on the agenda for which the Council has requested urgency, which was granted unanimously.
Madam President, the truth is that a good many Members of this House are involved in this matter.
The report on the subject which bears my name was voted back in July, and now it is being brought back to this House by means of a question.
The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is meeting next week, so it really is essential that we should vote on it this week, in other words as soon as possible.
It is obvious that I think that any effort to improve the living conditions of animals is laudable and, of course, I also know that any effort that does not trigger an even more serious crisis in the beef sector is also laudable.
The truth is that there have been contradictory reports in respect of the wellbeing of calves, in terms of haemoglobin levels, and in terms of the way in which calves are fed.
This is, however, a social problem we are dealing with and one which might make the beef and veal situation in Europe even worse.
We all know that animals will have to be slaughtered at a more tender age than has been the case so far and I have no doubt whatsoever that one way of solving the question of the well-being of calves is to be able to slaughter them at an earlier age and at a smaller weight, so that they are better off and do not have to wait so long.
As for 'socialisation' , I am partly in agreement; taking an approach which I think is one of common sense I have accepted many amendments and am now willing to face the consequences of what I have written.
One plausible reason for this may be the debate on the conditions in which calves are raised in Europe.
As the draftsman for the Environment Committee I propose a number of measures intended to improve the conditions in which calves are raised.
Moreover, calves over eight weeks should be kept in large pens to foster their natural behaviour as herd animals.
Madam President, I am afraid I have to take issue with our rapporteur when he appears to believe that it is more important to have white meat than to raise animals in the most humane way possible.
A young calf is a gregarious animal and it goes with the herd instinct as quickly as possible and I believe that to deny the calf that possibility is creating a hazard for the future.
I also believe that it is appropriate that we do something to try and encourage the future of veal production and that we should do something to encourage the consumer to recognize that veal will be produced in a healthy and wholesome way, without infringing animal welfare issues.
It is this that threatens a properly functioning meat sector in Europe, not the fact that we may no longer keep calves in crates or engage in other cruel methods of raising them.
The calves were happily lined up in the byre with their mothers while others were accommodated in pairs in straw-filled pens measuring about 6 m2 .
A young animal which is suffering will not produce quality meat.
Amendments Nos 1, 4, 9, 10, 11, 23, 24 and 26 cannot be accepted because they would dilute our proposed prohibition on keeping calves in individual pens.
In the view of the Commission, keeping calves in individual pens is detrimental to the wellbeing of the animals and also unnecessary in health terms, except in the case of very young calves or if the veterinary surgeon has decided that an animal must be isolated for health and behavioural reasons so that it can receive appropriate treatment.
Amendment No 4 would restrict the scope of application of the Directive to herds of more than 10 calves.
In our view, however, the Directive is important for all calves and not just for those in herds of more than 10.
Amendments Nos 3, 21, 28 and 33 are not acceptable to the Commission because it is the Council that decides which parts of the Commission's Directive may be amended.
They state that these installations may continue to be used only until 31 December 2010.
Amendment No 13 cannot be accepted because the effects of the Commission's proposal on the costs of keeping calves are acceptable, in our view.
Amendment No 18 cannot be accepted because the proposed article is a standard formulation which is not necessary here.
Amendments Nos 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 32 and 34, which are designed to change the timeframe for implementation, also cannot be accepted.
The debate is closed.
The priority must go to the natural order of things, which does not include keeping calves in concentration camps.
It would thus be unfair to lumber the calf-rearing sector alone with the welfare problems arising in that sector.
The Commission proposes that the minimum size of pens should be set in relation to the size of the calf.
Madam President, not long ago my colleague Jean-Pierre Cot, who had two reasons for being angry, made a very sensible point.
No one knew whether BSE was or was not transmissible to man, but when in doubt it was necessary to assume the worst in order to protect the consumer - in other words to act as if it was transmissible.
The Committee on Agriculture took evidence from, in particular, Heino Diringer, head of the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin, and Heino Diringer said to the Committee on Agriculture last February, ' I must warn Europe's health authorities that there is every reason to think that the virus or virion or prion crosses the human barrier' .
We met yesterday for four hours with the committee of inquiry into BSE, and it was actually during those proceedings that gaps emerged, new concerns justifying continued discussion of the report, given that, of the some 200 zoonoses currently being studied in Europe, I would say the BSE is still by far the least well-understood, not only because of the effects it may have on man and therefore the possibility that it might trigger the notorious Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease but also because of its effects on the animals themselves.
This report therefore constitutes another reason for investigating further at a time of great concern for Europe, in the wake of the information Commissioner Fischler gave us even today.
If that is what has happened in the case of one of the 200 zoonoses at this time, what can we say about the others which have hitherto been studied in part only?
It is said that it is not really certain that BSE or other zoonoses can affect the health of citizens and influence Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
The debate is closed.
By zoonoses we mean infectious diseases in animals which can be directly or indirectly transmitted to man.
The rapporteur also proposes that mad cow disease, BSE, should be added to the list of zoonoses in a new article as a potential zoonosis.
The rapporteur also more or less accuses people in Northern Europe of being hypochondriacs where salmonella is concerned.
The combined pressure of civil society and this House has meant that, with greater or lesser resistance, the Council has gradually come to accept the principle that agreements signed with third countries must simultaneously include a political framework to promote democratic principles and human rights.
For this to happen, policy systematization is fundamental and should be based on the following: as clear as possible a definition of what is meant by democratic principles and human rights which, as far as I am concerned, must be based on the notions of universality, indivisibility and interdependence; promotion and defence of democracy and human rights conducted both through positive measures and through the implementation of the sanction, and, in the decision-making process, maximum limitation of Council's discretion when applying what we might generally term the 'democratic clause' , since success now also lies in actions in this sphere fitting into the framework of a genuine common foreign and security policy involving all players in our society.
The report I am submitting, with the unanimous backing of the Foreign Affairs Committee, is a significant contribution to this question, proposing, as it does, the inclusion in the new European Union Treaty of a clause implying the inclusion of respect for human rights in a statutory and general way, encouraging use of the most progressive clause, requesting that the Council and Commission take account of Parliament's opinion and that the latter be able to make recommendations on the subject, also asking Council to take account, prior to action, of the criteria of the Council of Europe, the UN, ILO and principal NGOs, and, when all is said and done, asking Council to act in this sphere by qualified majority and not on the basis of unanimity.
Madam President, this will take no time at all.
The debate is closed.
In the line of the resolution, I wish to demonstrate my support for the Commission communication, which heads in the right direction of making progress in the system of promoting human rights in the European Union's external activity.
Indeed, the defence of democracy and human rights at international levels cannot be understood - and must not be practised - as a means of imposing a political system which is western or European and alien to sociological realities or local traditions, but instead as a means of promoting universal values and, thereby, guaranteeing peoples and individuals defence against despotic regimes and access to, control of, and influence over power, all of which is vital if everyone is to enjoy the results of development.
Thus, support for the Commission's proposals presupposes a guarantee of respect, by the European Union and its Member States, of fundamental principles: Universality, regardless of geographical, religious, cultural or political differences; -Indivisibility between personal, civic and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights; -The interdependence between human rights, democracy and development.This makes it inadmissible that the European Union or its Member States should, sometimes, appear to be more demanding vis-à-vis the situation in third countries than over what happens in some of our own countries.
European economic interests cannot legitimate the continued support for Suharto's Indonesia or Mobutu's Zaire.
In the end we must strengthen the consultative activity of the European Parliament, both in the European Union's international negotiations and in the monitoring and sanctioning of the rules included in international treaties in the respect of human rights.
The question of human rights must not be made secondary to economic interests.
The incorporation of the international human rights clauses into the Maastricht II Treaty would be another step towards making the economic activities of the EU obligatorily conditional on respect for human rights.
The concept of human rights is the principle which acts as a bulwark to our democracies.
The socialist group would like to make the point here that, because the subject is unfortunately an important one, we very much hope that another debate will be held in this House on this subject, which really does involve the whole of Europe and all its values.
Secondly, I believe that a number of Members have not spoken because they wanted to protest against the fact that, in essence, this is a Friday morning.
However, I would like to make one thing clear: the Commission does not agree with Parliament's inclusion of the human rights clause in all the European Union's international agreements.
We believe that there is a need for it in economic cooperation agreements, financial cooperation agreements and development cooperation agreements.
Where is the sense in including the human rights clause in an agreement on the maritime sector?
There does not seem to be much sense in an agreement on standardization within the internal market including a human rights clause.
As the Council has not yet reached a decision on these networks, the reference to the date of that decision should be deleted from our amendment, in other words the text should end after the word 'telecommunication' .
I do wonder how agendas are determined in this Parliament.
Mrs Lulling, the Commission has noted the modified amendment tabled by yourself and agrees to incorporate this item into its proposal in the new form you have submitted.
The debate is closed.
We would have no reason to return to this matter, the initial proposal of which dates from 1993, if the Council had listened to us, more than two years ago, when we disputed its selection of Article 235 as the legal basis, a selection which also conflicted with the Commission proposal.
In order to prevent any interruption of these activities, steps need to be taken to bring about a new EDICOM decision, on the right legal basis this time, without changing a single comma in the content of EDICOM, which satisfies everyone.
That is the reason why the Commission has rapidly submitted to us an amended proposal for a decision, the reason why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted my report without delay, and the reason why this Parliament agreed to the urgency procedure to allow a vote today and so enable the Council to correct its error.
It seems to me rather curious that a rapporteur for a topic such as this, which is rightly considered to be urgent and important and for which my group expresses its full support, should fail to present a point that concerns such an important issue - the trans-European networks - in which the House, as we all know, has a very keen interest.
I wish also to take the floor to protest at the way in which, as a result of inefficient working of this House, we have found ourselves in the Chamber discussing such an important issue.
I therefore wish to be included in the minutes, along with my explanation of vote, this protest on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, because it was made impossible for the draftsman of an opinion to do his job.
I would have explained this if I had had the time. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, I wish to congratulate you for taking the vote on the Lulling report after the explanations of vote, as should happen at every sitting and not just on Fridays.
As you will be aware, the report considers the difficult situation of the market for the shipbuilding industry.
I am thinking not only of Belgium but also of countries like Germany - I believe all our German colleagues are certainly interested in the future of the north and the shipyards - as well as France and Italy.
Secondly, we call for a major research effort in this sector.
Other countries still provide state aid of 9 % of tender prices.
By accepting such an agreement, the Commission imposed restrictions on productive public investment, influenced the concentration of this industry in the hands of a few private groups and decisively contributed to the virtual elimination of this sector in certain Member States, including Portugal.
The Commission cannot implement this amendment for two reasons: firstly because this type of legal provision is always established with reference to a limited period of time and, secondly, and more importantly, because the adoption of an extension for an indefinite period could be interpreted as a weakening of our commitment to reach an agreement, thereby sending out an incorrect message at a time when both we and our partners are stepping up the pressure on the United States to ratify the agreements as soon as possible.
In addition, by extending the life of the directive up to 31 December 1998, as the Commission proposes, the European Union would keep all its options open, including the possibility of re-extending the directive from that date if this were necessary.
In proposing an extension to the directive which covers a relatively long period of time, the Commission was of the view that, in the event of a continued delay in the entry into force of the OECD Agreement or of a complication relating to it, it will be necessary and appropriate to carry out an in-depth review of Union policy in this sector.
However, the Commission cannot accept the form in which the amendment has been proposed, with the inclusion of a new Article 1a.
If it should be necessary for the Council to adopt a decision prior to 1 October - we have to be realistic - there simply is no time for this between now and 1 October, should the Commission agree to submit a revised proposal to the Council.
As for Amendment No 3, its objective is to define the area of study in respect of policy review and, on this matter, I can assure you that the Commission will be embarking on an in-depth review which might include the position of State aid in Member States.
However, the Commission is also producing an annual report on this subject whose scope is even wider than that proposed by Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I am also giving this explanation of vote, on behalf of my group, in order to have recorded in the minutes my protest that an issue as important as this should be debated with so few Members present.
And, secondly, it can only be put by a group or by at least 29 other Members.
It is an important question and must be dealt with now because it refers to the Conference of the International Labour Organization, which opens on 8 October.
I have asked you to check whether there were 29 Members willing to support my request.
I say again, this request can only be made by a group or by 29 individuals.
In accordance with Rule 126, I have one minute to speak against the motion.
The request was made on the basis of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, and not on the basis you mentioned.
My explanation of vote against related to the fact that we had decided - and Mr Martens was present - to include this issue on the agenda.
I therefore propose that we move straight to the vote, without debate, but I am opposed to suppressing a report which deals with Palestine, another priority of the socialist group, and I would call upon all Members to pay attention to any important subject.
Madam President, I know the atmosphere this morning is not very calm, but I would like to inform the House that the Commission requires a decision on this report today , given that a decision has to be reached before 21 September.
I therefore had the right to speak in favour of or against the motion tabled by my colleague in the Christian-Democrat group.
Once again, I should like to propose that this item be adjourned, or perhaps dealt with as rapidly as possible without debate.
On behalf of my group, I ask that this item be dealt with as quickly as possible without debate.
I also know why you want to vote on your own motion for a resolution today, but try to show a little consideration for the other groups' interests.
I am thus in favour of Mr Liese's proposal, Madam President.
so I ask you, Madam President, are the interpreters now staying until 1.30 p.m., yes or no?
If so, then please let us vote on the Kouchner report and the Hughes question and then talk about bioethics.
Madam President, we agree to vote immediately on the UNRWA report, and, as my colleague said, we are happy for things to take their normal course with the Hughes question and the oral question on bioethics.
I should simply like to conclude by saying that my group deeply regrets the vote which has just taken place on the Kouchner report.
I think this is all part of the madness currently afflicting our proceedings.
Please do not ask me to perform miracles when the situation here is changing every 30 seconds.
We will now vote on these seven motions for resolutions on bioethics.
I therefore ask that the debate should take place.
At any event, the socialist group cannot lend itself to such a charade.
Madam President, those who have attended are here in the expectation that this debate will take place.
We have said that we will vote on this request now and then we will vote on the Kouchner report.
I wish to point out that Parliament considered the Council of Europe's Draft Bioethics Convention from 26 June 1995 to 17 July 1996.
The resolution which the committee adopted in a vote was too conservative, and was rejected by Parliament.
The ELDR Group naturally cannot cooperate in such a manoeuvre.
I want it entered in the minutes that not only the Socialist Group but also the Group of the European Radical Alliance vigorously protests against this way of proceeding and considers this vote to have been taken unlawfully.
Then let us move on to the vote on the Kouchner report.
Because if you give Mr Dell'Alba the floor again after every single vote, we shall still be here next Wednesday.
I observe that the House agrees with you. (Parliament adopted the joint resolution) Ninth EC-UNRWA Convention (continuation) I am now going to take a vote as to whether we should still put the Kouchner report to the vote. (Parliament decided to move immediately to the vote on this item) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, forgive me for returning to the vote on bioethics but, especially in the presence of Mr Martens, I should like once again to protest on behalf of my group against the conditions under which that vote was taken.
