Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 12 March 1999.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 12 March 1999 have been distributed.
The Minutes were approved Order of business The draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Pursuant to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, and in view of the events which took place last week, I propose the following amendments to the agenda for the sittings to be held today and tomorrow.
The President read out the amendments to the agenda Mr President, you have just mentioned as an item on the agenda, incorporating the corrigendum that we have received, the statement by the Council following the resignation of the Commission.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I do not think there is any problem about saying in the agenda 'the resignation of all the members of the Commission'.
It is not just one or two members who have resigned, but all of them.
I cannot see any problem in leaving this item as it stands.
For that reason, my group is naturally in favour of referring the report back to committee.
The President cut the speaker off Mr Ephremidis, this is not the time to hold a debate on Kosovo.
The order of business was thus established Statement by the Commission Mr Santer, you have the floor to make your statement.
It was a very painful decision, but it was necessary to preserve the institution of the Commission and the European Union as a whole.
We must now ensure that the right lessons are learnt from this crisis, which must be the catalyst for deep-rooted and permanent reform in the European institutions.
I hope that it will pave the way for a more transparent, responsible and democratic Europe, a Europe that applies the most rigorous ethical standards.
As for the report by the independent experts, I said at the outset that their work had our support and that we would act on their conclusions.
As many Members of this House have recognised, we have done more than any Commission before us to try to improve the Commission's working methods.
Through its applause, the House has shown how much it has appreciated the dignity with which you have acted throughout this period.
Mixed reactions Council statement following the resignation of the Commission The next item is the Council statement following the resignation of the Commission, followed by a debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, coming at a time when Europe faces difficult decisions concerning its future development, the resignation of the European Commission is a severe test of our resilience, but it is also perhaps a salutary shock.
The people of our Member States rightly expect the institutions of the European Union to use the revenue from their taxes in a responsible manner.
They deserve respect for having accepted political responsibility for the circumstances described in the independent experts' report; and the Commission and its staff also deserve our thanks for the work they have done over the last few years to deepen and broaden European union.
Strategic decisions were taken during their tenure, such as the introduction of the euro and the start of the present enlargement process, decisions in which the Commission played a vital part.
The Commission must complete the work it has started on this initiative while it is still in office, which I hope will be done within a few days.
The MAP 2000 programme for better organisation and personnel management and the SEM 2000 programme, designed to improve financial control, are steps in the right direction.
As far as the special meeting of the European Council in Berlin is concerned, this means that the German Presidency must do everything it can to broker a political deal on the Agenda 2000 package.
The accumulation of these three crises also shows how much we in Europe - our nations, the Commission, the European Council and Parliament - have to do at the present time; we have a huge burden of responsibility to shoulder if we are to overcome these crises together.
I am confident that Berlin will be a success and that Agenda 2000 can be formally adopted before the end of the present legislative term.
The European Council in Berlin will also have to deal, of course, with the consequences of the Commission's resignation.
According to that proposal, the European Parliament could approve the nomination of a new Commission President at its part-session in April, and then in May - which is a very ambitious target - it could approve the nomination of the new Commission.
The presidency will try to secure a political agreement among the Heads of State and Government on a candidate who could be nominated in time for your part-session in April.
In preparation for the Cologne meeting of the European Council, the presidency will shortly present proposals as to how and when we should address the institutional questions which were not settled by the Treaty of Amsterdam and which have to be resolved before enlargement takes place.
Greater care must be taken in the forthcoming reform process to ensure that the Commission is not constantly being entrusted with new tasks without being given the material, human and financial resources it requires in order to perform them.
Applause Mr President, the events of the past week have revealed, perhaps for the first time ever, an expression of 'pan-European public opinion'.
It criticised certainly two others for poor judgement in employing friends or relatives whilst acknowledging that the correct procedures for recruitment had been followed, and the work they had been engaged in had been of a European nature.
We should also be clear that accusations which were being bandied about in this House in December and January against other Commissioners, were overwhelmingly and largely dismissed.
It is important that this House is grown up enough to recognise that fact.
However, the report was decisive in its conclusions regarding the loss of control of management by this European Commission; and it was right and proper that in the light of the conclusions the College took the decision to resign.
My group now expects the independent group of experts to complete the second part of its report on the structure of the European Commission.
I believe that it could be very convenient for some if the independent group of experts were to be prevented from delving in the required detail into the workings of different Directorate-Generals.
I therefore ask this House to make sure that the group is given the space to work and that the Secretary-General of the European Commission be asked to ensure that his officials at every level cooperate to the maximum to facilitate the report.
It is a procedure and process that is not unknown in any of our countries, in order to look from time to time at the culture which permeates administrations and executives in each country.
If we are to demonstrate that the European Union can be different; if we are to respond to the opportunity of this moment, then we must call on the Heads of State and Government meeting in Berlin on Wednesday this week to designate immediately their nominee for President of the Commission.
We want not just the President of the Commission replaced, but a new Commission in place with speed, properly ratified by this Parliament, using the powers which will be given to us in the incoming Amsterdam Treaty.
What is clear, is that the new President of the Commission must assume not just the political responsibility for the Commission, but the political leadership as well.
The impact on European public opinion, if the European Council and the European Parliament were to come together to put in place a new Commission able to demonstrate its commitment to serving the people of Europe, would be instrumental in rejuvenating the vision of Europe.
It is clear, as you say, that the European Parliament has payed a significant role in this crisis.
The same cannot be said of the Council.
In October 1998, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the independence, role and statute of the anti-fraud office which was to succeed UCLAF.
I admit that a majority of my group did not vote in favour of that.
Things that had been going on for years unbeknown to many people have now been brought to light by this report of the Committee of Wise Men.
Secondly, and here again I address myself to the President-in-Office of the Council, the Commission itself said in a statement of 17 March: 'we urge the Member States to appoint a new Commission without delay'.
Whichever Treaty you care to apply, Maastricht or Amsterdam, this Commission will remain in office until the beginning of January 2000.
This crisis can also be a challenge, a challenge not only for the new Commission, but for all of us.
Let us try to make a true challenge out of this crisis and breathe new life into the European Union.
Applause from the PPE Group Mr President, this has been a week without precedent with the resignation en masse of the European Commission.
The launch of the Euro, the conclusion of the Amsterdam Treaty, the preparation of Agenda 2000, the opening up of enlargement negotiations.
For his own political misjudgements, Jacques Santer has paid the ultimate political price and with him his colleagues have resigned.
For the Parliament, this entire debate has represented a coming of age, a new maturity in understanding our democratic rights and our capacity and our duty to act in the public interest when we assert them.
The system of governance in the European Union needs to be subject to more democratic control and public accountability.
Last week saw the downfall of a Commission in which some members had already made a start along the road to 'berthelisation ', and in future we will always be ready to condemn any Commission that again succumbs to the Berthelot syndrome.
We cannot demand in this institution, of other institutions, what we would not demand of ourselves.
The ELDR Group notes the implicit criticism of the Council in its role as one of the two arms of the budgetary authority for failing to give due and proper consideration to critical reports prepared by the European Court of Auditors on tourism policy on the MED and the ECHO Programmes.
In this regard, we note with concern the relative ease with which the Council granted discharge for 1996; and we note with profound regret that on the very day of the publication of the expert committee report, the Council granted discharge, prematurely in our view, for 1997.
Let me say to the President-in-Office that I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of my Group to wish the Berlin Council well, and to say that we hope you will achieve the objectives of Agenda 2000 which are now more essential than ever.
But let me also say in concluding that when we come to appoint an interim and future European Commission, my Group, which has been to the forefront in criticising the current Commission, wishes to make it abundantly clear, that our wish is for a strong, independent political Commission; and any attempt to weaken this in the future is one that we would resist in Parliamentary terms.
The Commission needs reform and Union needs a strong, independent, politically reformed Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the serious problems identified in some areas of management at the Commission and highlighted in the report by the Committee of Independent Experts have led to the collective resignation of the entire Commission in line with the spirit of the Treaties.
It was a responsible and courageous decision.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to reread the chapter in the report on the Security Office, which was set up in 1990 and was directly answerable to the Commission President at the time.
In more general terms, it is regrettable that all - and I mean all - the Union institutions succumbed to a sort of bulimia, which meant that a number of areas of activity were considerably extended: regional structural aid, external actions, the MED, PHARE and TACIS programmes, emergency humanitarian aid, reconstruction programmes for the former Yugoslavia, upgrading of nuclear power stations in Eastern Europe, and so on - I am sorry to say that this list is not exhaustive - without the structures and administrative procedures being adapted to deal with these new responsibilities and without any kind of financial control worthy of the name.
Responsibility for this failure lies not just with the Commission, but also with Parliament and the Council, which not only agreed to the increase in the Commission's activities, but were often the ones that called for them to be increased in the first place.
First and foremost, we need to speed up the process of reforming the institutions, a problem that was unfortunately overlooked when the Amsterdam Treaty was negotiated.
Finally, the new Commission President must undertake a programme of action to achieve these aims, which he must present for Parliament's approval.
There are currently 28 directorates-general and offices, not counting the decentralised agencies.
To eliminate the temptation of corruption, which can occur all too often, the staff working in this field must be rotated on a regular basis, contrary to what has happened up to now.
However, the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is scheduled to come into force on 1 May, changes Parliament's confirmation procedures, so it would be better not to pre-empt matters before then.
Finally, it is up to the Council and Parliament, the Union's two political institutions, to act in close cooperation to ensure that the European Union that emerges from this crisis has stronger structures and greater legitimacy for its activities.
We therefore agree with Mr Fischer that the procedure and timetable for doing so should be decided at the Berlin European Council.
We shall not approve the nomination of a President without a programme or a Commission without clear objectives.
The report of the independent experts fundamentally bears out what the Committee on Budgetary Control had uncovered in a number of reports.
Applause from the Green Group The essence of the problem raised in the report, however, is that there is no real - as opposed to mythical - ' collegiate' responsibility for the actions of the Commission members as a group.
On this last point, there is a very clear conflict of interests between Parliament's desire to keep the power vacuum that we have had for the last week to a minimum and our concern, in selecting the new Commission, to follow the highly detailed procedures that allow Parliament to exercise its prerogatives in full, in other words the procedures provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty, which inevitably take a long time.
At the same time, however, we need strong European institutions and in particular a strong Commission.
The Wise Men are very precise in their conclusion: they have not found a single person who has shown the slightest sense of accountability.
There are now 1 000 committees, 10 000 laws - with even more amendments - and 100 000 projects.
We are all indicted in the Wise Men's report, especially those who have voted in favour of the many new areas of responsibility.
The internal feuding has died down and given way to a common aim: to nominate a new Commission which will remain in office for some six years and to appoint the President of the Commission, thereby depriving the future European Parliament of its new power - conferred on it by the Amsterdam Treaty - of appointing the new Commission President.
But let us also remember that there was already talk a few months ago of the Council of Ministers wishing to proclaim the new Commission before the elections: even then, therefore, there was a clear intent to deprive Parliament of its powers and steer the elections in a particular political direction.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when several crises coincide, as is happening at the present time, a President of the Council really ought to possess the capacity to be in two places at the same time.
The presidency sees the resolution of the Commission crisis in which we are now immersed as a joint responsibility of Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
We want a quick and convincing solution - a solution that is likely to restore and strengthen public confidence in the European institutions.
I agree with all of you who have said we need a Commission that will set about the task of internal reform of our work and our institution with great energy and vigour.
I see a very important message and a valuable token of your support in paragraph 9 of your joint resolution, which categorically states that our present problems must not serve as a excuse for deferring or avoiding important substantive decisions.
The priorities are quite clear: in three days' time, in Berlin on Thursday, we must bring Agenda 2000 to a conclusion, and we must ensure that the Commission crisis is quickly overcome.
We also agree that the reform process in the European Union must include all the institutions.
What we have heard today from the Council presidency sounds hopeful, in so far as it indicates that nothing in the institutional relationships between Parliament and the Commission and between Parliament and the Council will ever be the same again.
Secondly, it emerges clearly from the Wise Men's report that the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control acted correctly.
A third point I take from the report is that the information Parliament was receiving from the Commission was inadequate; it was misleading and even fraudulent.
I am not in favour of any further reports by the Wise Men; the real priority now is to implement with all possible haste the programme of work we have drafted, so that by the year 2000 we shall truly have eliminated all the abuses which have come to light here.
I would draw his attention to the fact that paragraph 7 of our resolution speaks both of a Commission until the year 2000 and a new Commission.
There is a certain ambiguity in the language of the Council.
The President-in-Office says that we need to work with the Treaty of Amsterdam - I hope he speaks on behalf of all 15 Member States - which means that this Parliament will co-decide who is going to be the new President.
The President-in-Office needs to reply to that point.
If we do not have a new Commission with the full assent of Parliament, it means that the new Commission will only work until September or maybe October this year.
If that is the case, it will be a total contradiction of what we are saying, namely that we need a new Commission as quickly as possible, and that includes the point made by President Santer.
Otherwise this debate will yield only half a result.
Thank you, Mr Brinkhorst.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I come from a country, Portugal, which has always believed in strong men.
Europe needs a breath of fresh air to bring it greater transparency and democracy.
It is high time that the public in the European Union became involved in the building of Europe, so that they can impose transparency, democracy, a spirit of responsibility, ethical standards - all in all, respect for themselves as citizens.
But the need for reform applies to every institution.
This crisis is simply crying out for the establishment of a new relationship between the Council and Parliament.
The report by the Committee of Independent Experts of 15 March, which among other things criticised the Commission for having lost control of the administration it is supposed to manage, was absolutely scathing.
Claude Perry, the director of Perry-Lux, admitted that out of 5 000 or 6 000 external experts working for the Commission, several hundred were in fictitious jobs and were receiving a daily allowance of BFR 2 860, as was the case with Euro-Conseil.
This lack of responsibility enabled the Commissioners, and in particular the Socialist Mrs Cresson, to turn a blind eye or to cover up fraud, malpractice and nepotism.
Instead of the heavy punishment that Europe's taxpayers, having seen their money squandered, are entitled to expect, the Commission is proposing to pay the 20 Commissioners in question 60 % of their salary for three years, in other words a minimum of 60 000 francs per month.
When they vote for my list on 13 June in France, the public will be showing their political maturity and spirit of national resistance.
What should not happen is what we witnessed in the House this afternoon, when certain party leaders or leaders of political groups took advantage of the situation to attack other political groups for purely electoral reasons.
Madam President, following on from the views expressed by my colleague, I believe that the public's verdict on how we discharged our responsibilities during the present crisis will soon be made crystal clear at the ballot box.
What our fellow citizens really want to know is how we are going to tackle unemployment more effectively, how we are going to continue supporting the agricultural sector, how we are going to put our economies back on track, how we are going to promote the development of our infrastructure and how, indeed, we are going to ensure that solidarity remains a pillar of our Union.
Consequently, every effort should be made to remain focused on what must still be the main objective of the Berlin European Council.
So independent financial scrutiny is required.
It will be essential in future to provide for greater and more effective control of the Commission, in view of the concentration of both legislative and executive powers in that body.
Madam President, the report by the special committee has shown beyond a shadow of a doubt that there is an urgent need for reform within the Commission.
The report and its aftermath gives us an historic opportunity to force a seismic change in the relationship between the Commission and Parliament, to tackle the democratic deficit in the European Union and overhaul the system of scrutiny.
This Union's institutions, with Parliament playing a major role, must ensure that a new Commission is put in place soon, charged with the responsibility of ensuring that a complete reassessment of Commission management and structure is initiated and that the new Parliament after June must have its opportunity to judge those who are nominated to the Commission from 2000 onwards.
The fact that on the very day the Wise Men's report came out, the ECOFIN Council made its recommendation that Parliament should grant a discharge for 1997 is, in my view, an illustration of how slack the Council is.
The Council will be taking great risks if it seeks to reappoint Commissioners who are currently in office.
Mr Santer too has forfeited too much credibility as Commission President in recent months and weeks to be able to remain in office.
Mr Van Buitenen must be reinstated without delay.
Having said that, I believe it is in the interest of Parliament and of all pro-Europeans - I repeat the term - to go into the elections with a new Commission, thereby proving that the European institutions are capable of moving rapidly.
This means that the Heads of State need to reach an agreement before the April part-session of Parliament.
My own suggestion to the Council is that it should explore in more depth the proposals on reform of the Commission which have been put forward by Parliament in various forums.
But the other institutions, the Council and Parliament, are likewise in need of reform.
Thirdly, when we come to appoint a new Commission, whatever its make-up may be, its real emphasis must be the reform of the Commission, continuing the programme for codes of conduct, the reform of the statutes and the screening report of the resources which are needed.
Lastly, what we are moving to is a discussion between Parliament and the Council.
Madam President, 'Shakespeare in Love' has won and Europe is ecstatic.
First there was the event itself: 16 March 1999 will go down in history as the day on which the Commission resigned.
It is a revolution for the present because of the lesson it has taught us, because Europe has given a lesson in democracy.
Jacques Chirac and Lionel Jospin agree on it, which is good.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have been issuing warnings to the Commission at meetings and in personal conversations.
Unless we change the structures within the Commission, we shall be back in this same situation two years from now, because replacing the individuals at the top is only part of the answer.
The resignation of the Commission was no heroic deed, but rather a case of the Commissioners jumping before they were pushed.
The loss of confidence in this Commission is so calamitous that the only option for us is the quickest possible replacement of the entire team, but let me stress that merely replacing individuals is not enough.
Mr President, even though the Christian Democrats are late converts to the idea of a Committee of Experts which they opposed in January, we in the Socialist Group welcome the fact that they now support the establishment of the Committee of Experts and we look forward to its second report which will be published within the next couple of months.
I want to focus my contribution this afternoon on that report.
That has been the focus for the last few months but what we need to do now is to find the causes of the widespread problems in the Commission and, more importantly, we want the Committee of Experts to recommend remedies.
We do not want a generalised polemic from the Committee of Experts; we want specific recommendations about what it has discovered not only in relation to the last four and a half years but about procedures that, as we know, have gone on in the European Union civil service for many years.
If we do not do that the whole exercise of the last few months will have been a waste of time and we will have made no further progress in what is after all a major event for the public in the European Union.
Mr President, I am surprised and saddened at the petty political way in which some colleagues are seeking to profit from what is an extremely serious situation.
We are in fact facing a crisis in the institutions of the European Union, and we must face it head on.
This Europe has given itself institutions such as the European Central Bank to manage monetary policy; now it also requires authoritative political governance, authoritative political institutions.
I too look forward to a rapid solution to the crisis and an authoritative Commission presidency, and I too would stress that - if the presidency is to be strong and authoritative - it cannot be a short-term one but must have sufficient time to plan its work.
Mr President, that is why the institutions can only find a way out, a direction, a guideline, in political terms.
Which means that it is up to the political powers that be, and in particular the Council and Parliament at present, to act swiftly to resolve this crisis.
To do this, Parliament's demands will have to be heeded, but it is willing to reach political agreement with the Council on a solution.
It is now incumbent on the Council, and in particular the German Presidency, to put its cards on the table and acknowledge its responsibility.
It is a pity things had to come to such a pass and that a call in January from this Parliament, and from a large proportion of my group's members, to dismiss those Commissioners who were under fire was not acted upon.
We await the debate on Agenda 2000 and the advent of a new Commission with equal interest.
I believe that acknowledging that the European Parliament has a far more important role to play than the other institutional bodies have been willing to accept is a fundamental and crucial point.
The Council of Ministers for instance, was in a great hurry to grant discharge, without examining the real facts.
Madam President, at this stage in the debate, virtually everything has already been said.
Mr President, a new era starts here today.
I think we are all facing a collective challenge here.
This new challenge is also something the Council is facing.
Finally, the challenge also affects the Member States.
The biggest omission from the Amsterdam Treaty was the reform of the Commission.
On the other hand, it often made a point of showing its muscle to Parliament.
The public must be aware of the collective responsibility borne by the whole Commission, but also of every individual Commissioner's accountability.
Point six: some people are talking about the Commission crisis as if it were a crisis of the entire European Union, but the EU must stand the test, and it will, especially if it responds quickly, and I hope that the presidency can impose itself at the Council meeting in Berlin.
Parliament refused discharge but later it voted a motion of confidence in the Commission and its President.
I regret that one or two Commissioners did not shoulder their responsibilities but I regret that so many good people, including the President Mr Santer, who have done so much important work and achieved so much success have appeared in the eyes of Europe to be discredited when in fact they are people of honour who have done a good job.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about the resignation of the Commission being an institutional and political crisis.
Nor did the Member States, which missed the opportunity provided by the Amsterdam Treaty because they were unable to get to grips with the problems of reforming the Union institutions.
Parliament too was sometimes too timid in its approach to the Amsterdam Treaty and failed to keep the required distance.
Finally, and above all, the Commission more than any of the other institutions was in the best position to see just how far its organisation and operation had become completely obsolete in terms of the tasks it was expected to perform, and which it agreed and asked to carry out.
Mr President, can I first of all make an observation on behalf of many Members about the gross discourtesy of the Commission in not being present for this debate.
I am probably the least surprised person about the findings of the Committee of Wise Men, because, as many colleagues know, since 1990 I have been pursuing a fraud in DG XXIII.
So the report we have seen debated this evening is Van Buitenen II.
That is in fact the most frightening conclusion of the report.
The national governments have shown no responsibility at all in this matter.
Brussels has its own Watergate, and conclusions now have to be drawn so that the crisis of confidence between the European Parliament and the Commission, between the public and the European Union in general, can be overcome.
On the contrary, it is a crisis of the European Union.
One of the short-term requirements is the nomination of a new President of the Commission by the Member States, in Berlin if at all possible, and the Commissioners who were explicitly criticised in the Wise Men's report must not be part of a future Commission.
Among the lasting reforms are the earliest possible establishment by the Council of a procedure that will make it possible to call individual Commissioners to account in the event of misconduct, mismanagement and fraud.
The new Commission must be appointed quickly, and it was very good to hear the President-in-Office of the Council say that the principles of the Treaty of Amsterdam would be respected in this connection.
Nevertheless, while we ponder these images of power, we must remember that the most important matter on the agenda at the forthcoming Berlin summit is the approval of Agenda 2000, and in the light of the current situation it is vital that Berlin should be a success.
Mr President, Jacques Santer has shown great political courage.
However, I also regret the fact that a Commission which has done excellent work throughout its term of office should have been forced to resign.
It is through the irony of history that the Santer Commission has become the first victim of its own reforms.
The Council of Ministers and the national governments also need to examine themselves critically and ask if they have always acted in the best interests of our Union.
The Council of Ministers will make very important decisions this week which we know will have a long-lasting effect on the future success and credibility of the European Union.
Let us hope that they make these decisions in the same spirit of openness and accountability and respect for democracy that they rightly demand of the Commission.
With regard to the role of national governments, these and other reforms are badly needed.
The public must be made aware that it is often the practice of governments and the Council of Ministers to blame the Commission when things go wrong.
As has been pointed out here, most EU funding is actually administered by national governments and there is considerable evidence of fraud and malpractice in this area.
And finally, President, I would say that with regard to the role of the Council of Ministers, we know that they meet in private.
The frenetic demands made by certain political forces to get rid of this Commission makes me suspect that it would suit them to have a weak Commission, because a weak Commission would in theory be easier to bend to their minimalist views on the future of the European Union.
I believe that it would be more reasonable to keep this Commission on in a caretaker capacity, as it is familiar with the dossiers being negotiated and could therefore guarantee more rapid, effective and well-balanced negotiations.
The important thing is that the pace and the balance of the negotiations on Agenda 2000 should not be affected and that the strategic interests of the Union should not be jeopardised.
We need a strong Commission in which political responsibility outweighs bureaucracy.
Mr President, I should like to begin by paying tribute to my fellow-countryman, Jacques Santer, who is not in my party but whom I respect for the important political work he has done as President of the Commission.
It should be the new Parliament elected on 13 June.
Mr President, the Social Democrats must bear a large part of the responsibility for the institutional crisis in which the EU now finds itself.
In our present situation, we need a new Commission whose mandate will last until the year 2000 to take over before the European elections in June.
The Council of Ministers has not instigated any administrative reforms.
A new proposal for a Statute for Members of the European Parliament has been submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval.
Mr President, the resignation of the Commission in the wake of the report published by the Committee of Wise Men was the right decision.
Since March 1998 Parliament's Group of the European People's Party has systematically highlighted failings in the work of the Commission.
Thank you, Mrs Matikainen-Kallström.
KEDO came into being as a result of a project to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons in North Korea and draw North Korea more closely into the international community.
But these facilities, light water reactors, are not only safer to operate but also harder to use for military purposes.
The European Union was then launching its new strategy for Asia, to develop better relations between Europe and Asia.
The treaty on which Euratom is based does not contain any obligation to inform or consult the European Parliament.
On 15 December a new agreement was signed by Euratom, that is to say with the involvement of the European institutions, an agreement with Canada.
In the Foreign Affairs Committee, Commissioner Brittan made a statement which gave us the impression that we were moving towards an agreement.
I am pleased to say at this point that we are quite happy with this letter.
Might we not strengthen our diplomatic presence there, with the European Union taking an initiative to that end?
It is quite ironic that on the same day that we are debating the consequences of the resignation of the Commission, we should also be discussing the question of KEDO.
For us it was very clear when the Council decided unilaterally at the end of February 1996 that KEDO would be supported by financial resources entered in the budget, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, which had not been not consulted, should give its opinion.
So, when the Commission chose to enter into the agreement, it chose Article 101 of the Euratom Treaty and this Treaty does not provide even for consultation with or information to Parliament.
We have been acting on behalf of these two committees.
It is again very ironic that on a day like this the Council is not even represented at political level and it shows that maybe the next battle for democracy will not be with the Commission but with the Council.
I would like to ask one question of Sir Leon.
This morning in the International Herald Tribune there was a strong plea for a new approach to North Korea.
We should strongly support the 'sunshine' policy of President Kim Dae Jung who has suffered more than anyone in South Korea from the tensions which have existed for more than 40 years between South and North Korea.
We started this process on 21 November 1997.
Equally, I should like to thank Sir Leon Brittan for all his efforts to try to reach an agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament.
We now have an agreement that I think Parliament can accept on the basis of the letter which has been sent today.
To try and resolve that problem we have the US-DPRK Framework Agreement of 1995.
North Korea is a deeply suspicious country.
We in the European Union might understand that the checks and balances of the US constitution mean that President Clinton cannot always clearly deliver on his promises but we can hardly be surprised that the North Koreans take a different view when, in the coldest month of the year and when energy is most needed, there was a failure to deliver heavy fuel oil to the Sonbong oil-fired power plant.
Despite these reservations the Research Committee voted in favour of the programme.
We believe that, overall, it serves our best interests as a Parliament and as a European Union in demonstrating our role in East Asia.
Compared to the cost of KEDO, one-tenth of 1 % of the KEDO project would boost productivity in the coalmining industry - it has been estimated - by something like 25 %, and modernise elements of coal-fired power production.
On the political side I welcome the result of the Council's low level political dialogue with the DPRK and support the idea of a second meeting when the time is right.
The situation is critical.
Finally, I welcome the paragraph in the report that asks for a delegation to come here from the DPRK's Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say first of all that I am pleased that the general issue regarding Parliament's role in Euratom agreements has been settled and I can assure you that the Commission services will implement the practical arrangements we have arrived at.
The measures the Commission intends to take are set out in a letter that I have sent to the President of the European Parliament today.
That letter states first that at the beginning of each year, the Commission will provide a list of all the relevant Euratom agreements under Article 101(2) which are under negotiation or for which negotiations are to be launched in the coming year.
Thirdly, the Commission will forward the proposals for conclusion of the relevant Euratom agreements to the Parliament at the same time as they are forwarded to the Council for approval.
I should add that the time it takes for the Council to reach a decision on conclusion is generally fairly lengthy.
Fourthly, by way of a letter, information will be provided on the relevant agreements under Article 101(2) Euratom which are currently either under negotiation or for which a decision or conclusion has not yet been taken.
The agreements referred to represent all agreements covered by Article 101(2) Euratom which are under negotiation or for which negotiations are to be launched in the coming year.
With respect to the report on the KEDO Accession Agreement it is a well-presented and interesting document which addresses the fundamental aspects of the KEDO initiative.
The visit of the parliamentary delegation to North Korea was regarded in a very positive way by the international community and I am grateful for the degree of attention Parliament has given to KEDO.
I particularly endorse the conclusion which states that Parliament considers that the European Union should play a role in reducing the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation, increasing nuclear safety and encouraging the development of better relations between the DPRK and its neighbours and that membership of KEDO will enable it the better to play that role.
We are fully playing that role in the implementation of the Accession Agreement.
We attend all KEDO board meetings and negotiating meetings with North Korea.
North Korea is also aware of our involvement not only through KEDO but also via the political dialogue which I shall refer to in answer to the question and by the European Union food aid programme.
Indeed, it is the case that the Commission negotiators have recently reached an ad referendum agreement with their DPRK counterparts on conditions for a new EUR30m aid programme for 1999.
So we are contributing to a process of engagement with North Korea, seeking to encourage it to become a more responsible member of the international community.
KEDO is a key part of that task and we will continue to remain in close contact with Parliament in the implementation of our participation in it.
We will have to start preparing soon for the future of our participation in KEDO because the current agreement expires at the end of the year 2000 and we will be in close contact with Parliament following the procedures I referred to earlier.
It is true that broader financial problems remain but the first thing we have to do is to play our part.
The negotiations I have had with the Members of the Parliament to deal with the KEDO problem have been a similar bonding exercise and I thank all concerned.
There is no doubt at all, as far as relations with North Korea are concerned, that a crisis in the Korean Peninsular would have far-reaching consequences in North-East Asia and beyond and we have a responsibility, commensurate with our new role in seeking to be involved politically in that part of Asia, to do what we can to avoid it.
The EU regularly exchanges views with our dialogue partners, including the United States, the Republic of Korea and Japan with regard to the situation on the Korean Peninsular.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in his own inimitable way, the Commissioner has not only set out the problems but has also provided us with avenues to explore.
I believe we must surely agree that a country such as North Korea which is looking for support from the international community must naturally conduct itself in such a way that it is not seen to threaten or act in a hostile manner towards other states.
But to be honest, I distrust any statistics released by the North Korean Government on the extent of the famine in North Korea.
Mr Ford has also told us what is really happening over there in North Korea.
If you are now presenting us with a letter, Sir Leon, the content of which I can certainly endorse - well, I have to say that it may have come late, but at least it has come.
Another thing: regarding the procedures for the vote tomorrow, I regret that we were not able to table amendments in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and had to table them directly in the plenary.
This will come as no surprise to someone like Sir Leon Brittan, who is more of a dreamer than a realist.
We are talking here very earnestly about a nuclear programme, and our Green colleagues are right on this, in part: should we really be allocating hundreds of millions of euros to build nuclear power stations over there, even if they are less likely to be used for military purposes, when other solutions could easily be found?
Perhaps when Sir Leon Brittan stops being such a dreamer and becomes more realistic he might think about the possibility of investing a few million euros in providing the North Koreans with information, instead of letting them starve to death without any knowledge of what is happening in the rest of the world.
I understand what you are saying, Mr President but I rise on Rule 40 which says that when questions to the Council have been placed on the agenda in time, that is to say three weeks before - and as far as questions of foreign policy is concerned this time limit does not even apply - they will be answered.
The oral question plus the report are part of a package.
The Council is not present tonight but we are also sitting tomorrow and I move that we suspend this item now so that before we vote tomorrow we have the reply from the Council.
Mr Brinkhorst, we have come to the end of this debate.
I would now ask Sir Leon Brittan whether he wishes to comment further.
Mr President, I just wanted to say a word about some of the points raised by the last three speakers, and I will be brief.
Mr President, as you have just stated, tonight we are going to debate an action plan on the influx of immigrants from Iraq and the neighbouring regions.
The Committee on Civil Liberties and I would have welcomed the opportunity to prepare a report on the measures proposed in this action plan at an appropriate time, and we felt that it was somewhat ridiculous to be called on to do so a year after the plan had been implemented.
It should be said in the Council's defence that this action plan represents an attempt to adopt a global approach to a problem which Parliament had already highlighted in a resolution on this issue dated 15 January 1998.
In this context, we are also rather concerned about Turkey's part in the action plan.
We know all about joint actions within the framework of the CFSP, we know all about other procedures, but an action plan is something new, and we would like to be informed of the basis on which this decision was taken.
It seems to us that the decision lacked a sound legal basis.
It is requesting Parliament's opinion on an action plan, as the rapporteur has said, after this was adopted by the Council in January 1998 without prior consultation, as required by Article K.6 of the Treaty.
In her comprehensive and very thorough report, the rapporteur rightly calls for a new proposal to be submitted within three months and for consultations with the European Parliament to take place.
Last week saw the resignation of the Commission, but I think that the Council, in matters falling under the third pillar, has possibly treated Parliament even worse.
The ELDR Group believes that the dialogue with Turkey must continue on issues such as the acceptance of Kurdish migrants in the region and the improving of human rights generally.
It is very important to us that the organisation and implementation of this initial reception in Turkey should be entrusted to the UNHCR alone.
It is important to devise a policy for the long term.
Consulting the European Parliament on the action plan was the first step.
Mr President, in her report, Mrs Terrón y Cusí criticises the EU's action plan on the influx of migrants from Iraq and the neighbouring region.
The report is critical both of the contents of the action plan and of the fact that the European Parliament became involved in this plan only after it had been adopted.
At the same time, the implementation of the action plan is now the subject of a review.
In addition, the Council has asked the high-level group to review the implementation of the action plan on Iraq.
The House may be pleased to learn that on 3 March the Commission, at my suggestion, approved a working document which includes proposals relating to that very issue.
The purpose of the document is to initiate a wide-ranging discussion with Parliament, the Member States and voluntary organisations on the framing of future asylum procedures in Europe.
The Commission intends to put forward a formal proposal after the Amsterdam Treaty has entered into force.
We have a unique opportunity to reach a common position in the Council of Ministers when the negotiations are resumed.
Her attitude contrasts sharply with that of certain people who have not even deigned to be present today, as we discuss a plan of action that has been in force for a year and three months, and on which we have belatedly been invited to express an opinion.
In actual fact - and this also applies to the previous debate - Rule 40 clearly stipulates that the institution to which a question is addressed has to give a reply.
The debate is closed.
As a result, the number of directives transposed into national law increased in all the Member States in 1997, and the results were particularly significant in some countries, such as Finland, Denmark and Sweden.
Nevertheless, this represents an improvement on the previous year, as in 1996, 98 decisions were still awaiting implementation.
The report now before us is the last in this fourth parliamentary term on the annual monitoring of the application of Community law, and it gives us the opportunity to point out the improvements made over those years thanks to the pressure brought to bear by the European Parliament, which has the power of codecision following the Treaty of Maastricht and is therefore a co-legislator.
The European Parliament will gain significant new powers of codecision, as well as powers in other areas.
I would like to express my firm belief that this change will make a significant contribution to ensuring that European Community law moves closer to the people of Europe, and that there will be more transparency in the decisions of the European Union.
Mr President, I am pleased to see that the rapporteur, in paragraphs 9 to 15, adopts the same approach to Community law as last year's report, as well as the Larive report on business communications.
Mr President, it is difficult to say anything new when discussing a report such as the one before us today which enjoys such broad consensus.
The Commission's annual report concerns the issue of monitoring the application of Community law.
So, it primarily relates to monitoring and thus the way in which the Commission exercises the monitoring powers entrusted to it in the Treaty as guardian of the Treaties.
These powers - I am referring in particular to Article 169 and Article 171 of the EC Treaty - have been increased and strengthened.
Application means knowledge, knowledge means understanding and understanding means clarity first and foremost.
Community law lacks clarity.
This is what Declaration No 19 of the Treaty of Amsterdam relates to.
Legislation is being drawn up in 11 languages, embodying legal institutions drawn from different legal traditions.
I believe that as Mr Anastassopoulos has pointed out, this review of the application of Community law, the application of the articles on monitoring in the Treaty and, in general, knowledge of Community law have all improved since 1994.
Monitoring the application of Community law is an essential part of what we are doing in Europe.
To enforce effectively Community law, we have used all the instruments that we have.
In the past, the system was more rigid and did not allow one to come to a decision as soon as the case was ready for action.
And finally, we enforce deadlines for reply or compliance much more strictly although, of course, the rights of defence of the Member State have to be respected.
Information on respect of Community law in general must also be more widespread, and I welcome the support of the Parliament to increase transparency in this area still further.
To conclude, respect for Community law is essential to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
The debate is closed.
It involves extending the existing system for the current year and, at the same time, establishing a band - between 15 and 25 % - within which the standard rate must fall.
Basically, the proposed directive extends the present system for one year and sets a band - between 15 and 25 % - within which the standard rate must fall.
A second amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of my group, reformulates this concept as a recital, adding that the present system - the one providing the transition to the definitive system, as it were - has a whole series of drawbacks, including the ones briefly listed in my explanatory statement.
I hope that these amendments will be taken up by Parliament and viewed by the Commission as an incentive to proceed towards the definitive system, which is talked about so much but seems to be some kind of remote and increasingly unattainable dream.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with many of the points the rapporteur, Mr Secchi, makes in his well-informed report.
While the Union is involved in the process of harmonising tax policy we should not ignore this important social tool.
It is not only the hour that is late: this amendment to Directive 77/388 was supposed to come into effect on 1 January this year and to remain in force until the end of the year.
The VAT differential between the European Union, the United States and Japan is still huge, and is probably one of the things that is to blame for Europe's unemployment rate, which is much higher than in the other two countries.
Mr President, the European Parliament and the amendments which it has proposed reaffirm its support for the movement towards a new common VAT system.
This programme proposed three main headings: modernisation, the simplification of the current system and the change of the place of taxation.
The Commission has already submitted several proposals, currently on the Council table, which cover simplification and the modernisation of the current arrangement specifically with a view to meeting operators' immediate expectations, that is to say, the transposition of the recommendations for the Slim II exercise.
Consequently, the improvements to the current VAT system constitute an essential phase for the passage to a new system which envisages a single place of taxation, the only way of ensuring the radical simplification of the VAT system demanded by European businesses.
I am afraid that at the moment the proposals currently on the table of the Council, with a view to simplifying the system and to ensure more uniform application of the tax, are at an impasse while the European Parliament of course has supported then unconditionally.
I would like to thank you therefore for the support that you have given to this proposal and more particularly, the objective being pursued by the Commission, that of the definitive VAT system.
The debate is closed.
