Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 5 November 1998.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Thursday, 5 November 1998 have been distributed.
I should like it to be explicitly recorded in the Minutes that I said in Brussels that it is not only for reasons of principle that I am no longer voting in roll-call votes - which I have not done for some time -, but also for taxation reasons.
Thank you, Mr Janssen van Raay, that will be done.
Once this has been done, we shall carry out our share of the dataprocessing work for Parliament and inaugurate the building as soon as possible.
I believe that on this occasion Members of the European Parliament should show they are on the same wavelength as the citizens and join with them in expressing solidarity with the victims.
Thank you, Mr Carnero.
The matter was put before Parliament's Bureau, as you requested in your letter.
But on Thursday morning we also have a meeting that is authorised by the sessional services, which was even organised by Parliament's sessional services, during the votes on Agenda 2000.
I would like to have a response on this matter, Mr President.
Normally there are no votes at that time on Thursday, Mr Pompidou, except in the case of those on the budget.
This is a quite exceptional situation because of the large number of votes to be taken on Agenda 2000.
Mr President, as you are aware, recently I presented a report to Parliament on the banana regime.
The right to put questions is one of the most important, individual parliamentary rights and I believe no Conference of Presidents, not even in this House, can simply cancel that right; we have a right to a monthly Question Time to the Council.
I and many other colleagues have tabled important questions to the Council within the deadline.
Yes, Mr Dell'Alba, and the Conference of Presidents has established that Article 206 was not the appropriate legal basis for the report.
Tuesday: The PPE Group has asked for the Ferri report on supplementary pensions to be brought forward from Thursday and placed after the Añoveros Trias de Bes report on promoting innovation through patents.
Is there a speaker from the PPE Group in favour of this request?
Mr President, we made this request because the Ferri report goes very well with and the Añoveros report, I and II.
It is a very difficult report covering very complex issues relating to pensions.
Mr President, I led the Parliamentary delegation to Buenos Aires.
I absolutely endorse the proposal that we take our time in responding to what was a very complex outcome in Buenos Aires.
Thank you, Mrs Aelvoet.
I put to the vote the request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists (Parliament approved the request) Friday: The Group of the Party of European Socialists has requested the removal of the debate on the oral questions on BSE in Portugal.
Mr President, I asked for this oral question to be included in the agenda since, in my opinion, the situation in Portugal is sufficiently serious to justify that.
That is why I tabled an oral question on behalf of my group.
Thank you, Mr Rosado Fernandes.
Do you wish to speak in favour or against, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf?
Mr President, I am in favour of keeping this item on the agenda, and would add that our oral question has not been included in it.
Thank you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf.
On the basis of the European Commission's own criteria, experts at the London firm that carried out the audit have identified costs totalling ECU 4 million that ought to be recovered.
It is a simple and fundamental principle that Parliament confirmed once again in its resolution on the discharge on 31 March this year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nobody, including this Parliament, comes back to the same question twice without reason.
But in our view some important points were not clarified, and nor have they been in the meantime, unfortunately.
If we assume that only a court or the appropriate judicial authority can decide whether the facts of the case constitute grounds for criminal proceedings, then the judicial authorities must be in possession of all the information.
After all, this report also shows that there is no point spending too long and too much time on formalities.
But this could not detract from, or in a sense overshadow the fact that we are also looking at how they were implemented in the past, because our criticism of their implementation is fundamental and concerns the management of programmes in general and personnel management in general; then, in a sense, the affair of the MED programmes is merely an example of something we are criticising on principle.
The auditors are looking into about half the completed projects and believe that some 4 million euros can be reclaimed.
The second question in relation to the discharge for 1996 is how the Commission handles disciplinary proceedings.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner if we can have a clear answer here and now as to whether the Commission will respond to paragraph 3 of the report and take the specific action which is being requested.
The irregularities discovered in the management of the MED programmes, which meant that these programmes were suspended until the Commission relaunched them in April, involve more than a third of the appropriations used and the financial loss is much greater than was first supposed.
For our part, we are hoping for an objective debate on the discharge for the 1996 financial year.
The Presidency had to make it change the legal basis.
This month it is retabling a report by Mr Fabra Vallés on the basis of Article 206 and the Presidency has told it that another legal basis must be adopted.
As far as the MED affair is concerned, we have already had two reports and, in practice, we force the Commission to meet such short deadlines - by asking it, for example, to present documents within 10 days - that there may well be a third MED report.
Our resolution of 31 March informing the Commission of the postponement of the 1996 discharge stated, in particular, that the Committee on Budgetary Control was to draw up a new report on the MED programmes on the basis of a report by the Commission on the financial audit of these programmes.
It would appear today - and this has already been said - that the loss to the Community budget is significantly greater than had been originally assumed: a figure of almost ECU 10 million is mentioned.
Indeed, the subsidies that were wrongly allocated are not spread evenly over all the projects; there are certain projects where more than 50 % of the subsidies paid are in serious doubt.
As such, we must now look at this in the context of the refusal to grant discharge and I am calling on the general rapporteur for the discharge to propose a decision to this effect.
It should be realised that the Committee on Budgetary Control addresses such issues because there are special reports by the Court of Auditors and these are becoming more numerous.
The MED cooperation programmes were initiated in 1990.
The Council approved the legal basis for them in June 1992.
Between 1992 and 1995 the Community financed 496 decentralised projects involving 2 000 participating operators.
On the basis of the audits carried out by the financial control of the Commission and the final report of the Court of Auditors published in May 1996, the Commission instructed its anti-fraud unit, UCLAF, to carry out an inquiry within and outside the Commission.
UCLAF's final report of May 1997 could identify no cases giving rise to suspicion of fraud involving Commission officials.
The rapporteur asked the Commission to submit the whole MED file to competent national judicial authorities by 1 December.
The appointing authority decides on the opening of the disciplinary procedure as laid down in Article 87 of the Staff Regulations.
In the case of the MED programmes an initial inquiry was carried out by one Director-General of the Commission.
This situation had led officials to breach the principles of sound financial management, in particular when using the services of ARTM.
The rapporteur asked the Commission to submit to Parliament the minutes of the hearings carried out in its administrative inquiries.
In this we must be careful to strike the right balance between two requirements.
Secondly, Parliament has a responsibility to monitor the implementation of the budget and the right to be provided with information as laid down in Article 206 of the Treaty.
The first meeting between the representatives of the institutions is scheduled for this week.
The purpose is to involve the legal services of both institutions in the process.
The Commission hopes that an agreement can be concluded at the highest possible level.
The audited projects equal 70 % of the net expenditure used.
The results of this examination will be verified by the financial control of the Commission as a whole.
The Commission will submit an interim report of the results to Parliament by 1 December.
Taking into account the huge amount of work involved in examining the 233 audited projects, the interim report will cover approximately 50 to 70 projects, leading to the first issue of recovery orders.
The Commission will do everything in its power to ensure as much money as possible is recovered.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Secondly, we very much need to make means of payment such as credit cards more secure.
But it is important to society to have a high standard of security if it is to combat organised crime consistently.
That is why, in my report, Parliament submits a number of proposals.
Underlying this special role is the assumption that, as in the case of fraud against the Community, the interests of the Member States as such are not really affected.
Let me put it in somewhat provocative terms, Mr President: the euro is too important for the matter to be left in the hands of UCLAF.
Mr President, it was a year ago that the European Parliament considered the action plan to combat organised crime.
It is vital that Member States ratify the existing conventions.
Nor has the action plan to combat organised crime been sufficiently developed.
Accordingly, the Austrian Presidency is endeavouring to cooperate closely with the European Parliament in its activities.
The Austrian Presidency agrees with the Commission and the European Parliament that we must do our utmost to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
We followed with great attention the European Parliament's in-depth consideration of the action plan to combat organised crime.
The presidency took the European Parliament's resolution of 20 November 1997 as an incentive to propose an amendment to the Council in the important area of the prevention of organised crime.
That is why we also forwarded the presidency's draft resolution on preventive measures to combat organised crime to the European Parliament for information, although even the Amsterdam Treaty does not make provision for Parliament to be formally consulted on draft resolutions of the Council.
The multidisciplinary group on organised crime has discussed the draft in depth and will probably adopt it at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 3 and 4 December.
In line with the horizontal nature of prevention, it addresses areas in the first and third pillar of the European Union, although emphasis is also placed on the Member States' responsibility at national, regional and local level.
I believe this resolution is a first major step forward, which I hope will be followed by others.
Let me end on that note - I thank you for your attention and hope for further good cooperation between Parliament and the presidency!
I emphasise this point because I think that both rapporteurs rightly draw attention in their reports to the very important proactive role being sought by Parliament.
That is why we need to harmonise the systems of controls and penalties in the Member States to guarantee the euro's credibility and security, even in the intermediate phase from 1999 to 2002.
But time is short.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the two rapporteurs for the work they have both done on this issue.
The fight against fraud and the need to establish a comprehensive system to prevent the counterfeiting of means of payment is of key importance, not only for governments but also for all the citizens of the European Union.
One of the main objectives is to ensure that these cases of fraud are treated as criminal offences in all the Member States.
Lastly, the EU now boasts three groupings operating in the field of police cooperation: Schengen, Interpol and Europol.
We will certainly vote in favour of this report, even though it appears to be somewhat reliant on a political magic wand.
Significant efforts must be made in this area and they must be targeted.
Mr President, the European Union only has legitimacy when it acts more efficiently than the Member States acting individually.
The rapporteur also rightly emphasises the need to involve civil society in the prevention of organised crime.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, I share your concern about the problems raised in the Schmid report.
Some time ago I put a question to the Commission on protecting the euro from counterfeiting, but only received a rather evasive answer.
The fact that the rapporteur believes that the euro will act as a magnet for criminal activity and that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also believes that the euro will be an extremely attractive target for counterfeiting confirms me in my view.
There are three main points.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know from a reliable source that about 30 % of all crime is now organised crime.
The third point, which I think needs very special emphasis, is that we must export security to the applicant Central and Eastern European countries that are seeking to join the European Union.
The relevant statistical and technical data will be stored as a database to which national central banks will have full access.
This is important because 13 billion euro banknotes will be printed by January 2002 when they will be brought into circulation within the 11 Member States encompassing a population of some 290 million people.
It is very important that this Analysis centre for counterfeits should work closely not only with national central banks but also with Europol and the national police forces within the 11 Member States participating in the new single currency regime.
The Amsterdam Treaty is giving more powers to Europol in the area of judicial and police cooperation and this Treaty is set to be ratified shortly.
Prevention is important but I believe this tough approach must take first priority, contrary to what is stated in this report.
We all know that, regretfully, 90 % of so-called street crimes in the major towns and cities are committed by uprooted people, uprooted foreigners, often second or third generation immigrants.
The only short-term solution is a courageous policy which presents those involved with a choice.
Mr President, I am glad to be able to make a few more comments on the problem of preventing organised crime.
Mr President, I should like to comment briefly on matters related to the euro.
The rapporteur justifiably stresses the need to support common measures taken by citizens against organised crime in the constitutional state.
In the area of telecommunications the Commission issued a communication in May 1998 on the protection of minors and human dignity in general in audio-visual and Internet contexts.
The heads of state and government have already agreed to meet in Tampere, Finland, in October 1999, to discuss priority aims and deadlines in this important area.
The amount of fraud in non-cash transactions is growing fast.
The Commission believes that the institutions concerned each have their own job to do: the European Central Bank, Europol, the Commission, especially in its capacity as the initiator of legislation, the Member States, their central banks, their police forces and their courts.
The protection of the euro will be the responsibility of both the Community and the Member States, however.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
We approved the core of this programme at first reading, but tabled some amendments.
Most but not all of these amendments were accepted.
If the Commission makes a satisfactory statement on implementation during this debate, I can withdraw Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 6, with the committee's approval.
This means that we are withdrawing Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 in favour of Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10, which we have tabled as compromise amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
I am pleased that we have made such progress with this action plan, and I would like to compliment the rapporteur on what is an excellent report.
Users of the Internet will have full control and be able to filter out this kind of material automatically, and so there should be complete transparency.
I should like to congratulate Mr Schmid on his fine report.
We also know very well that paedophile rings - rings that the judicial authorities in many countries, including Belgium, are failing to clamp down on - do not work via the Internet, and we are attacking something that has nothing or very little to do with these crimes.
Mr President, in an earlier life I was chairman of a film censorship committee in Manchester.
By granting a legal basis to its budgetary line, this action plan will enable us to reach these solutions.
In order to be consistent with its position on first reading and its original proposal, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 13.
The Commission can accept the remaining nine amendments.
In three cases - Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 6 - the Commission proposes dealing with Parliament's concern by making the following declaration: 'Liability of intermediaries for Internet content will be dealt with in the proposal for the directive on certain legal questions relating to electronic commerce which the Commission has undertaken to bring forward.
The Commission will ensure that due account is taken of Parliament's concerns in implementing action lines 1 and 3 with respect to violence and the abuse of women and children on the Internet.
Mr President, following the Commission's statement, I am authorised by the committee to withdraw Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 6.
Let me point out again that we are withdrawing Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 in favour of the compromise wording of the Council's Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10.
Thank you, Mr Schmid.
The debate is closed.
In other words, all 390 million European citizens, exercising the same rights and duties, should be in a position to benefit from the outcome of clinical trials on human subjects.
This text acknowledges the need to harmonise within the Community the administrative procedures and documents used, especially in multi-centre trials.
Its stated aim is to rationalise the administrative procedures required for the launch of a clinical trial, thus making Europe more competitive as compared, for example, to the United States, whilst maintaining a high level of protection for trial subjects.
All countries must make the same undertaking: to harmonise - that is, to determine a single procedure based on the system of notification.
Such a procedure would ensure, firstly, scrupulous protection for patients, in that GCP rules must be complied with, the green light must be obtained from the ethics committee and the Member States may put forward any reasoned objections within the 30-day period; secondly, certainty as to the starting date of the trials; and, thirdly, uniform procedures in all the Member States.
Amendment No 35 should be put to the vote before No 16 because, if adopted, it will cause the last paragraph of No 16 and the whole of No 17 to fall.
Thank you, Mr Amadeo.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the approximation of these provisions, we must pursue two aims.
The Commission has taken a major step towards tightening up these administrative procedures by obliging the authorising authorities to decide within 30 days whether or not a clinical trial may be conducted.
In some Member States, such as Germany, it has already been shown that it is quite possible for the authorities to take an informed decision within that period.
This is something that should be included in the directive in order to ensure harmonisation.
The issue of timescales of the application procedure has proved a problematic factor in the discussions on this issue and it has been of some concern particularly among the pharmaceutical industries.
Some rationalisation has therefore been achieved in this report to ensure that multicentre trials, especially those covering a number of EU Member States, are using the same information and products of the same high quality.
The introduction of ethics committees under EU law seeks to ensure the safety of subjects in such trials.
I support my colleague Mr Needle's statement, which proves that the work in committee was fruitful and that we come to the House with a widely accepted position.
Firstly, there is the question of whether the Member States should authorise a clinical trial when the ethics committee has said yes, or if authorisation can be withheld in some cases.
I think it is extremely important to preserve the Member States' ability to reject an application, even if the ethics committee has said yes.
I do not in fact see this as a major problem in practice, because the ethics committee will not normally be operating in a political vacuum.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rules on conducting clinical trials are to apply from now on to socalled 'multi-centre' trials, that is, trials that apply the same protocol in 50 or 60 different investigational sites, thereby ensuring that between 2 000 and 3 000 patients are used at a total cost of between ECU 300 million and ECU 500 m for one single trial.
Firstly, they aim to guarantee full and objective information for the patients likely to take part in the trial.
If we do not endorse this amendment, then that would surely automatically mean that anyone at all can consent on behalf of these people who are incapable of giving their informed consent, and that research can be carried out on them which is of no use at all.
Mr President, everyone knows that since 1990 the rules governing clinical trials in the European Union, and internationally, have been codified in directives on good clinical practice.
The directive we are discussing can help improve clinical research in Europe.
Special attention must be given to protecting people who are incapable of giving their informed consent, such as children and the mentally handicapped.
But we must also make that clear under this directive.
Mr Amadeo has done some valuable work towards achieving these aims, and we can basically support his report.
I would like to believe that the Commission will accept all these amendments.
Finally, Mr President, it is self-evident that the provisions of this directive must be implemented in a uniform manner in all the Member States if we really want to ensure proper clinical trials and fair competition in the production and marketing of drugs.
Mr President, Parliament has recommended some thirty amendments to the proposal for a directive.
The Commission accepts Amendments Nos 1 and 6, paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Amendment No 10, and Amendments Nos 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 27.
This concerns Amendments Nos 21, 22 and 27.
Parliament's competent committees only support the notification procedure, which is the purpose behind Amendments Nos 13, 14, 15 and 18.
The Commission accepts this position and will amend its original proposal accordingly.
In addition, the purpose behind Amendments Nos 23 and 24 is to clarify or specify more precisely the principles of good manufacturing practices applicable to investigational medical products to be used in clinical trials.
This applies to Amendments Nos 3, 8, 9, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Amendment No 12, and Amendments Nos 16, 17, 20, 25 and 26.
This is the case with Amendments Nos 4, 7, paragraph 3 of Amendment No 10, and Amendments Nos 11 and 20, and, similarly, Amendments Nos 28 and 36, which reiterate amendments the Commission cannot accept.
The debate is closed.
