Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 15 January 1999.
Many people will have understood that I am referring to Jan Palach who committed suicide in January 1969, turning his body into a human torch in protest against the oppression of his people by national and international communism.
Mr President, the Alleanza Nazionale delegation believes a place should be created amongst the many commemorations and prizes this Parliament promotes, possibly even a place of honour, in memory of a young man from Prague who sacrificed everything in the name of liberty, which is also championed by this Parliament.
Mr President, can I raise a point of order on the declaration of Commissioner's interests.
Mr Ford, that is not a question we need look at today.
Ways towards a sustainable agriculture The next item is the statement by the Commission on agriculture and the environment - towards sustainable agriculture.
For too many years now, agricultural policy and environmental policy have each gone their separate ways.
In some places, the consequences have been dramatic.
Other areas are suffering from the marginalisation of agricultural land and depopulation - a development which also has serious consequences for nature and the countryside.
Alongside these trends in agriculture, Europe has adopted some ambitious environmental legislation which reflects its citizens' wish to have a cleaner, healthier and more attractive future.
Parliament's recent report on the implementation of the nitrates directive was a very good demonstration of this problem.
Before I deal with some of the key elements in Agenda 2000, let me stress that a good deal of Community legislation - including some outside traditional agricultural policy - has a bearing on agricultural production.
Legislation in these three areas is helping to limit the environmental impact of agriculture.
Secondly, the Commission is proposing that Member States should make the payment of all income support conditional on farmers observing the rules that are required to protect the environment.
Fifthly, it will now be possible for farmers in Natura 2000 areas who have had extra burdens placed on them to share in the aid distributed to less-favoured areas.
It is clear that the Agenda 2000 reform proposal is an unambiguous signal that, from now on, aid will be redirected towards more neutral support for production and more support for the environment.
But there are also other long-term perspectives in the reform.
To a greater extent, agricultural policy will become a matter for our citizens and farmers.
It is important that all the EU countries take up this challenge.
This challenge was renewed and built upon in Vienna, with a request for a report for Helsinki.
That report will contain a timetable for gearing agricultural policy further to the environment and will deal with the question of what indicators can be used to measure the state of the environment.
This is an important question, because it is difficult to pursue environmental goals if the relationship between agricultural production and the state of the environment cannot be assessed in a way on which there is general agreement.
The communication also highlights the important role played by organic farming, because it can make a positive contribution to solving these problems.
Above all, it will be made clear that a reform without environmental progress is not sustainable, either for the environment or in political terms, for that matter.
The long-term success and acceptance of the reform depend at least as much on a sound environmental profile as on the price of cereals and meat.
Mr President, this Commission initiative must be welcomed.
In the last few years I believe that significant progress has been made in reinforcing the environmental dimension of the Common Agricultural Policy.
Mr President, I must first recognise that progress has been made towards reconciling the needs of the environment with those of agriculture.
Mr President, Mr Fischler, would you admit that environment-friendly agriculture is still the exception, that intensive farming is still the rule, that price reductions within the intervention system trigger more intensive production?
On the first part: Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I often agree with you but on this point I do not agree that price reductions, in fact the reduction of guarantee prices, automatically triggers more intensive farming.
So I think we all agree that environmental legislation should be respected, but also that the people who are close to the problems should sit down together more often and find some sensible solutions.
As regards the fundamental issue of animal nutrition, the derogation in this proposal that allows 10 % conventional feed to be used is quite sufficient.
With the 25 % recommended by the Council could production really still be called organic, particularly as organic farming must remain a byword for the strictest and most stringent quality standards?
You agree with this, I know for a fact.
Mr President, Mr Fischler, am I right in assuming that in fact you drew up Agenda 2000 in order to make farmers more competitive on the world market and not in order to reduce the consumption of fertilisers and other means of production that farmers urgently need?
That is my first question.
Mr President, I believe there is a good deal of similarity between what I have said to Parliament today and the proposal presented by the Commission in Agenda 2000.
Mr President, Mr Robles Piquer, on the second part of your question, whether we are also prepared to encourage biomass farming and the production of alternative energy sources, i.e.
Secondly, under our proposals for rural development, investment in this sector is also eligible for support measures.
Mr President, it is very important that environmental policy is integrated into agricultural policy, and that environmental policy is integrated into all policy in the European Union.
We published this report, and we instituted legal proceedings against - as far as I recall - 12 Member States which had not implemented the nitrates directive.
I believe that such an approach, whereby we examine the situation in all the Member States, increases our chances of persuading the Member States to implement the legislation.
Mr President, when I hear Mr Fischler and Mrs Bjerregaard propose a joint strategy here in this Chamber I am always very much on my guard, for in the view of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection there has been no harmonisation at all in the environmental field over the past five years; quite the reverse!
The legislation of the past five years teems with vague legal concepts, such as the ATO, a high protection level, good agricultural practice, etc.
Had we discussed this issue two or three years ago, I am sure Parliament would not have thought it possible for us to be in a situation where we have a document like Agenda 2000, which contains so much environmental thinking in the area of agricultural policy.
Mr President, I have two questions.
In 1950, 35 % of the total European population was involved in agriculture.
As a result of this reform and due to ageing in the sector, this figure will fall to between 2.5 % and 3 % by 2006.
So this proposal to incorporate environmental aspects more firmly in the reform is certainly in the interests of agriculture and of jobs.
Mr President, we have talked about implementation of the nitrates directive on a number of occasions already.
Our job is to monitor whether the Member States are complying with the nitrates directive, which simply means that checks are carried out as to how much nitrate there is in the groundwater.
That is why some countries have had particular difficulties in implementing the nitrates directive.
Mr President, my question is to both the Commissioners.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in regard to animal protection may I point out firstly - and precisely in order to counter the argument about international distortions of competition - that this should play a part during the next WTO round and should be considered during the next agricultural negotiations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can entirely agree with Mr Fantuzzi here.
I am, of course, delighted by the cooperation between the two Commissioners on the agriculture/environment problem, but I do wonder about the danger which may emerge as this sector develops in the future, namely the risk of the transfer of pollution.
We then dealt with the second question which was raised, namely the effects of GMOs.
We are watching this very closely, and as the questioner perhaps knows, proposal 90/220 contains some provisions which mean that GMO products will not simply be approved for all time, but will be subject to reassessment, because we cannot rule out gaining some experience of the long-term effects or obtaining some new information.
Mr President, the European industrial, scientific and technological base is essential to the security of the European Union.
It is that base which provides the capacity and capability which makes possible the political and military pillars of the European defence identity as expressed through the CFSP, the WEU and NATO.
A further 75 % of what we import comes from the USA.
I am sure that Commissioner Bangemann will be quite happy to lead that rock-and-roll.
We had the letter of intent of 6 July by the six defence ministers which was actually a vital step along the way, as indeed was the code of conduct on arms sales.
The Commission's recent communication is so important because it shows a willingness to use all the means that we have at our disposal whether they are Community or Member State instruments.
Governments should stand back and only use Article 223 where it is absolutely essential.
The recent merger with GEC/Marconi is a good deal because it is based on the principles of shareholder value and a sound financial footing is important if we are to get value for money for the taxpayer.
Secondly, we now need to follow the Commission action plan and apply the principles of a single market as far as possible.
We also need to establish greater clarity in the CFSP and the function of the European defence identity which is why the initiative of the British Prime Minister and the San Malo Agreement are so important.
We should now no longer rely on a juste retour .
They have investments in the United States and companies like Boeing have investments in Europe.
In fact, I know the industry will hate me for saying this, but the logical consequence of the Boeing/McDonnell Douglas merger is that the next step forward should be a link between Airbus and Lockheed Martin.
If the will to defend them had not existed in Europe and America when it was most needed, we would not be sitting here today.
Let me begin by thanking Gary Titley for his report in which he tirelessly addressed and discussed a subject that is most important in both economic and defence and security policy terms.
The United States of America, which of course always stands up for totally free trade, for totally free economic development, shows enormous interest and activity when it is a question of defending its own industry and securing its position on the world market.
I and my group are in total agreement with Mr Titley's report.
However, I am rather pessimistic about just how dynamic a European arms policy would be within a common defence policy, as mentioned in paragraph 3 of the report.
In actual fact I believe that only an effective common defence policy will allow a concerted strategy to be convincingly and properly achieved in the European arms industry.
With every year that passes, we in the European Union are falling further behind our American allies in terms of the quality of our military equipment.
Mr President, the Commission is right to have given priority to developing a European policy on the defence industry.
My group, the Liberal Group, backs the German Presidency's proposals to have this code of conduct made mandatory as part of the legislation.
For I believe it would be a mistake for the European Union to become involved, so to speak, in a frenzy of competition with the United States over arms industry issues when the European Union still has no principles and basic mechanisms for its foreign policy.
The codes of conduct are inadequate and poorly enforced.
The Titley report wants Europe's security and defence identity to be asserted - I am with him up to this point - but he goes on to say that this should be within NATO, which I find very disappointing.
Once again, a free Europe cannot thrive without saying 'no' to NATO.
Mr President, I share the view that the Titley report is an important one, and it comes at a significant time.
Finally, I think it is right to mention that the Titley report contains a small paragraph, which we should bear in mind, on the ratification of the Ottawa Treaty on Anti-Personnel Mines by all the Member States.
We are all familiar with examples of this kind in our own home countries.
The arms industry is not a question of markets and I believe that security policy is the decisive aspect, which is why it is important that we coordinate the arms industry, arms procurement, on a European basis in the interests of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following on from its 1996 communication, in 1997 the Commission put forward an action plan for defence-related industries.
It is even going one step further by opening the way for a European armaments policy within the framework of a European security and defence identity.
These guiding principles, approved by the report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, are reflected in the restructuring policies that have been implemented in the Member States.
Currently, only 5 % of France's requirements are met by state enterprises and munitions plants.
The industrial activity generated could also go hand in hand with strengthened cooperation at European level, but without giving up all our advantages, technology and know-how to achieve this.
Such cooperation will only be effective if it is complemented by the establishment of a genuine Community preference for arms purchases, so we can stand up to a dominant America that has cornered 50 % of the world market.
This approach is further justified by the fact that 75 % of major conventional weapons bought by European countries come from the United States.
Such diversification will only be truly effective if social measures are also introduced, such as reduced working time and improved training, in order to safeguard employment and keep sites operational in places where economic and social life is almost exclusively dependent on the armaments industry.
This should be a constant element in any discussion on the European defence industry.
Sweden is a neutral and non-aligned country; it does not belong to NATO and will not be involved in a common defence.
As regards Article 223 of the EC Treaty, in my view armaments cannot be regarded in the same light as other goods and traded freely; on the contrary, they should be subject to special rules.
The EU should play an active role, not in making it easier for the arms industry to produce and export weapons, but in tightening up the rules so as to limit the sale and export of armaments.
I do not believe there is much dispute in the European Parliament about the need for a Common Security and Defence Policy.
A Common Security and Defence Policy, as its name suggests, is not some kind of policy of aggression but reflects the need in a world in which, unfortunately, we cannot guarantee security by peaceful methods alone, to build up a system that shows the public that we are able to defend ourselves.
That is also a question of industrial policy.
The reason France finds it more difficult to privatise Aérospatiale is not because Aérospatiale does not want this but because the current French Government has more problems with this than a different government would have had.
The debate is closed.
The cold war has ended, and a major war in Europe would seem impossible.
Environmental problems can lead to such serious difficulties that they endanger the security of both individuals and countries.
Fresh water is a very unevenly distributed natural resource.
An estimated 300 rivers, lakes and sources of groundwater are located in international border areas.
Local and regional ecological problems can have serious implications for international relations, for example limited water resources or the large-scale displacement of environmental refugees.
At the same time, the change in the security situation has resulted in détente and disarmament.
War is also far and away the most serious threat to the environment.
The resolution recommends that the Member States should seek to utilise military-related resources for environmental protection through the setting-up of a training programme for environmental defence troops with a view to establishing a coordinated European environmental brigade, listing their environmental needs and the military resources available, and exploiting these resources in their national environmental planning while also putting them at the disposal of the United Nations and the European Union in the event of an environmental disaster, or under the Partnership for Peace.
We call on the Commission to present to the Council and Parliament - as foreseen by the Amsterdam Treaty - a common strategy which brings together the common foreign and security policy and the EU's policies on trade, aid, development and the environment.
It is noted in the resolution that preventive environmental measures are an important instrument of security policy, and the Member States are urged to define environmental and health objectives as part of their long-term defence and security assessments.
Mr Titley mentioned some of them: water in the Middle East, overpopulation as a factor of conflict in the Great Lakes region, deforestation and floods in southern Asia.
My group, the Liberal Group, wants to see the report pruned to its essentials.
In the explanatory statement, HAARP - the High Frequency Active Auroral Research Project - is said to be a military research project on the lines of 'Star Wars' which is environmentally damaging, has an unknown effect on people's lives and is legally questionable and probably in breach of international law.
Mr President, I want to endorse the conclusions this report comes to.
You can see that in the insecurity of nuclear sites in the Soviet Union of the kind that has been highlighted by General Lee Butler.
I say that without making any particular judgment as to the potential military applications of this technology, either as a weapon for disrupting an enemy's climate or its adaptability for the use in non-lethal weapons in either a military or a civilian situation, or perhaps most dangerously of all as a covert continuation of 'Star Wars' defence policies.
The fact is that when we look at this issue and when we listened in the hearing on HAARP, we appeared at times to be listening to science fiction.
In the absence of that, I have to say that this Parliament must take the view that this is a matter which should concern us all and to which we should return in the next mandate.
The Commission has taken great interest in Parliament's report and the motion for a resolution on the environment, security and foreign policy which it contains.
The report is commendable because it clearly points out many of the connections which exist or could arise between the environment, lack of natural resources and security.
The Commission's services have been investigating a number of security problems and their economic consequences in a broader context.
In this context, we shall also look more closely at the effect on policy in other areas, such as trade, development aid and cooperation.
A large part of the emergency aid under the Lomé programme has been earmarked for combating these two phenomena, which of course have many causes, some of which are quite clearly of a military nature.
This applies to paragraphs 18 and 29.
Finally, Mr President, the Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament has produced this resolution and report.
It shares Parliament's concerns about the connection between environmental degradation and future risks in terms of security.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, China, an immutable yet changing country, has once again recently given us an example of its contradictions and its difficulties.
Over recent months, there have been several encouraging signs such as the signing of two UN conventions on economic, social and cultural rights and on civil and political rights, the fact that there has been indirect contact with representatives of the Tibetan people, the Taiwanese representative's visit to Peking, the freeing of political prisoners, the troika's visit to Tibet, the fact that Mary Robinson, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, visited Beijing, and the public dialogue between the United States and Jiang Zemin which took place on Chinese television.
The Commission has adopted five guidelines that you already know about and that have been approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
I note with satisfaction the fact that these guidelines make political dialogue a priority, along with proposed aid to China to help establish the rule of law in compliance with international requirements.
But political dialogue is equally necessary in order to persuade China that the key to becoming part of international society lies in the respect of universal values.
In view of this, we welcome the legal and judicial cooperation programme put forward by the Commission, providing a total of ECU 13 million over four years.
In this programme, respect for individual and trade-union freedoms should be made a priority, even though the legal security of economic society is also necessary, particularly as regards protecting investments and intellectual property.
However, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering these guidelines at a moment when Xu Wenli, Wang Youcai and Qin Yongmin have once again been imprisoned, and where a wave of arrests and trials forces us to ask just what this crackdown means.
The Commission proposes to support this trend by offering to cooperate in such diverse fields as human resources development, administrative reform, social protection, reform of the financial sector, combating poverty and regional disparities, the transfer of technological know-how in the energy sector, widening scientific and technical cooperation and protecting the environment.
But, as always, these sweeping changes have also exacerbated or created major disparities: between town and country, between coastal regions and the interior, between Beijing and local authorities, between the poor and the newly rich, between those in and out of work, and in environmental matters.
Anything that is inflexible, authoritarian and centralist may fool people for a while, but in a changing economic society such an attitude always leads to obstacles being created, which in turn will trigger explosions or lead to that society being ostracised and isolated.
Now it would appear that China is to be the next target of assault by international market forces.
This is particularly serious as the situation in China is much more desperate than we are often told.
The European Union acts as if it has forgotten that this country and this great democracy exists and that at least there we can count on the ruling democratic classes there.
He forgets the positive examples but he also forgets about North Korea, a vassal of the People's Republic of China.
We have not seen any progress in the People's Republic of China.
Mr President, I would make it clear from the beginning that the Socialist Group is in favour of the Commission's communication about building a comprehensive partnership with China.
Mr Dupuis is right.
We need to ensure these are ratified and we are quite right to condemn the recent crackdown which goes against the trend we have seen in the last 12 months.
The European Union has to have a common policy in relation to China.
The talks between the representatives of the People's Republic of China and of Taiwan are promising signs that both sides are moving towards a peaceful solution.
Among the most notorious mass-murderers of our time are Hitler, Stalin and Mao, but others have existed - and still exist - who are their equal in many respects, among them Pol Pot, Verwoerd, Saddam Hussein and Kim II Sung, to mention but a few.
But the people of China still have enormous problems to contend with.
And another thing which means an attempt to intervene in China's internal affairs: yes, let us have bilateral trade, but where this concerns Chinese enterprises which, inside China, do not conform absolutely with the rules of the free market, then we must adopt special dumping measures against them.
The rapporteur suggests a constructive dialogue, but that has to lead to meaningful economic and political measures.
The rapporteur's suggestion that a human rights clause should be included in the trade and cooperation agreement with China which is now coming up for renewal is a step in the right direction.
Mr President, democracy in China has suffered a severe setback in recent months.
Mr President, the rapporteur Mr Bernard-Reymond deserves congratulations.
We have had a number of discussions and draft amendments and I believe that has resulted in a very balanced report.
But our common objective is the progress of economic development in China.
Our policy and that of the European Union must be that at the same time - not as an alternative or substitute for that objective - we remain unyielding on the human rights issue and endeavour to persuade China to make progress with political democracy, in its own interests and in the interests of human rights.
The European Union has consistently supported the principles of democracy and the protection of human rights.
However, we must continue to keep a watching brief on Hong Kong and I welcome the publication of the Commission's recent report in that regard to which I hope we will be able to respond.
I also welcome the fact that we do not now have a series of endless urgencies on incidental items but that we have a comprehensive approach.
We want to apply pressure to China on human rights, not only for moral self-satisfaction but because it is in the best interests of China itself.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, yet again in dealing with China, Europe has demonstrated that it is weak with the strong and strong with the weak.
In this respect, bearing in mind its own interests and the need to define an independent policy from that of the United States of America, I believe that the European Union should support China's accession to the World Trade Organisation given the obligations inherent in this.
I would ask the Commission to prepare a communication, as happened with Hong Kong, on future relations between the European Union and Macao and, at the same time, to produce regular reports on the situation.
I must point out that the current delegation to Hong Kong has not been able to assume its responsibilities of also representing the European Union in Macao.
It is clear that this therefore lends particular importance to paragraph A-5 of the communication and to paragraph 41 of the motion for a resolution, which expresses the hope that the transfer of Macao to Chinese rule will be done correctly.
The alternative to links with us is surely not links through Hong Kong, which the people of Macao are entitled to reject in view of the fear that this would put them in a subordinate position with a real risk that they would become lost, without their own voice, in the massive territory of China.
Macao has its own identity and lies in an area which is very different from China, giving us twice as many opportunities to become closer.
There is no doubt that both economically and politically the situation in China today is less hopeful than it was even a year ago.
Recent events in China have also given rise to serious concerns related to respect for human rights.
Firstly, we want to engage China further through an upgraded political dialogue into the international community.
We should build upon China's desire to be recognised as a global responsible actor on the world stage and develop dialogue on global issues of common concern.
Secondly, we need to integrate China further in the world economy by bringing it more fully into the world trading system and by supporting the process of economic and social reform that is under way.
Of course we are not satisfied with the current situation in China.
Recent developments in China that have been referred to have underlined that need.
Secondly, we want to see specific steps taken to improve prison conditions and reform the penal system, including conditions of appeal and access to judicial review in line with international standards.
Thirdly, we want to see benchmarks for progress towards the ratification of the United Nations Human Rights Covenants which includes the follow-up to Mary Robinson's visit and closer cooperation with the European Union within the human rights dialogue.
I am heartened to see that our communication and your report are broadly in agreement with each other.
We will certainly examine the specific suggestions made in the report and incorporate them as fully as possible into the substance of our relations with China.
The debate is closed.
Being an Italian rapporteur, I do not want to confine this criticism to my own country, but it is regrettable that some Member States which could be taking advantage of the benefits of belonging to the Union are, in actual fact, often using no more than about 52 % - when everything is going well, and in my opinion things are not going well - which shows that there is still a gap between the 'Union' as a body and the 'Member States' as a periphery.
That being so, I must also concur that the rules of competition should represent a guarantee of the correct and transparent operation of the internal market and that exceptions to free competition, claimed by some Member States, are in fact only justified by the need to maintain and strengthen that economic and social cohesion.
I agree with the Commission's statement on the multisectoral framework for regional aid for large investment projects, proposing to limit this type of aid to those projects requiring major inputs of capital which, without seriously distorting competition, have an undeniable impact at regional level, as a genuine source of direct and indirect employment.
What I would urge, however, is that it should be possible in future - in the near future, Commissioner, not the distant future - to extend this procedure, currently at the experimental stage, to all sensitive sectors still governed by specific rules on control over state aid.
But I have to say that certain provisions, like those on the maximum intensity of aid to Objective 1 and 2 regions, seem too strict.
Equally, the rules on competition must be applied in way which takes account of the need to strengthen cohesion, precisely to prevent the proliferation of certain substitute fiscal measures which are bound to damage the internal market but which, because of the lack of methodology I mentioned earlier, many Member States end up adopting.
I have received 25 amendments to this report and I am grateful to the Members who tabled them.
Madam President, I am privileged to have been appointed rapporteur for the report on competition policy for the second time during my career in Parliament.
In my speech, I would like to concentrate on the five proposals for improvements I have identified in my report, and I look forward to hearing the Commissioner's comments on them.
This is discussed in paragraph 10.
The third point also concerns SMEs and is dealt with in paragraph 15 of my report.
Those are the two points concerning SMEs.
I think it is important for Parliament to ally itself with the Commission in the campaign against state aid.
Thus, Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty allow enterprises and individuals to enjoy greater legal protection and therefore greater rights of appeal under national legislation than they would under Articles 92 and 94 of the Treaty.
In this debate I will restrict my comments to the issue of coherence and the linkage between regional policy and competition policy.
We know that concentration is the name of the game now in both the Community competition policy and indeed in structural fund assistance.
Of course, in the Commission communication consistency is a stated objective.
I must say that it is somewhat disappointing that some of the amendments to this report are seeking to look for exemptions for areas under Article 92(3)(a) in my view seeking to secure Objective 1 status by the back door.
Nonetheless, there is a need for the Commission to acknowledge in its proposals, as is the case in the communication, and I quote 'that Member States must have a margin of manoeuvre to pursue regional policy goals specific to their situations in addition to areas designated jointly for purposes of Community and regional policy.
The Commission is aware that Member States deploy diverse goals and objectives for national and regional aid policy.
The timetable in which Member States will produce their maps to DG IV predetermines potentially Objective 2 areas on the future structural fund map.
I will give you a very good example of that: in the 1994 to 1999 reforms the then Conservative government submitted a map to DG IV in the hope that those areas would then automatically be Objective 2 areas.
In some ways this Commission communication has been overtaken by events and I am delighted to see that in the General Affairs Council this week there has been a victory for common sense.
It is wise for the Commission to have chosen the route of allowing some margin of manoeuvre and thereby trying to encourage Member States in their efforts to make these maps more consistent.
That is why the basic principle must be that when national aid is permitted, over and above the areas covered by the activities of the Structural Funds, such cases should be exceptional and should only be permitted in special cases when justified by the need to achieve economic and social cohesion.
In that sense, there is indeed a need for closer links and correspondence between the competition policy and the European Union's regional policy.
We also ought not to forget that even if 66 % of national aid in total goes to the less developed areas, the considerable economic resources of some wealthy Member States enable them to subsidise areas which, even though they may be less well developed at the national level, are not among the most disadvantaged in the European Union.
When identifying areas where such aid can be authorised - as provided for in Article 92(3)(a) and (c) of the Treaty - care must be taken to ensure compatibility with state aid to Objective 1 and Objective 2 regions.
In the areas where it is granted, state aid is important in order to supplement and guarantee better economic and social cohesion and also territorial cohesion.
The Azzolini report also emphasises the priority given to the most disadvantaged regions, for obvious reasons of economic and social cohesion, the inclusion in the framework of possibilities of public aid for areas which will fall within the 'phasing-out' of the next Community Support Framework and the rejection of the Commission proposal to significantly reduce the state aid to be granted to the regions and sectors which need it and which will become eligible for it.
Finally, on the plus side, we should note the reference made to the need to monitor and control the public aid granted to transnational undertakings in order to prevent them from relocating and to prevent them from taking advantage of public aid without developing long-term economic activities in the region.
Competition policy is based on the principle of banning state aid to businesses, with derogations from Article 92(3)(a) and (c) that are restrictively applied in the free competition environment of the single market.
As for regional policy, it is based on the principle of providing aid for regional development by redistributing the Community budget, and it provides financial support for projects involving all the socio-economic actors in a particular region, including businesses, albeit in a minority capacity.
Deciding on the level of coherence should be left to the Member States which, in any case, are responsible for submitting proposals for negotiation with the Commission.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners, the Member State governments and you too, ladies and gentlemen, have always emphasised, in relation to Agenda 2000, that the Union's new structural policy must observe the guiding principles of concentration, efficiency and administrative agreement.
Madam President, the Agenda 2000 proposals as also this report seek to strengthen the complementarity between competition and regional policy.
That reinforces this policy of positive discrimination in favour of the most disadvantaged regions.
In any case the objectives of Agenda 2000, namely greater concentration and coherence, already involve a serious cutback in aid to the relatively successful regions.
It would be not just absurd but in fact inconsistent with the very principle of subsidiarity to also deprive them de facto of the instrument of national aid.
As the relevant political authority, the Energy Commissioner should immediately relieve him of responsibility for this matter, as this is the second time Mr Benavides has allowed himself to be swayed by external pressure and because considerable misgivings have been expressed in Spain as to his objectivity and impartiality in this regard.
I believe this would mean setting a serious legal precedent in the liberalised sectors, which has in fact already been invoked by Telefónica, the company which until recently held the monopoly over the telephone service in Spain.
Madam President, it is consumers and citizens who are the touchstone where liberalisation is concerned.
Madam President, I want to confine my comments to two aspects.
Mr President, at the outset I want to congratulate both rapporteurs on the presentation and, of course, the preparation of their reports.
At present there are some regions within my country and within Europe lagging behind the European Union average for economic performance.
It is only right and proper that the poor, disadvantaged and peripheral parts of Europe, namely Objective 1 regions, continue to be entitled to grant aid to the industries setting up within their region to the maximum of 40 % or indeed higher, if necessary.
The Commission has already brought out new revised state aid guidelines which have been approved by the 15 Member States of the Union.
These guidelines provide that Objective 1 regions will be entitled to grant aid to endogenous and inward investment companies setting up within their localities to a ceiling of 40 %.
Non-Objective 1 regions within the Union will be entitled to grant aid to industry to a limit of 20 % only while those areas within the Union, which are doing better than the Community average, will only be entitled to grant aid to industry to 10 %.
I agree with the state aid guidelines and, of course, favourable state aid policies to Objective 1 regions, including my own constituency of Connaught-Ulster, will go a long way to ensuring the creation of long term sustainable jobs in the region.
The Commission's proposal rules out this kind of social and economic solidarity, which is a mistake.
Mr President, all too often the situation in reality suffers when rigid and theoretical rules of economic policy are applied in the name of free competition.
There is a risk in this Chamber of allowing the European Parliament's priority objective of economic and social cohesion to fade into the background and be compromised.
The cost will largely be met, so runs the script, by the new Objective 2 regions and, under the Commission's plan, all the benefits and advantages will be enjoyed by the applicant countries.
A Union with huge differences in economic and social development between its various regions certainly can be neither credible, nor viable, nor competitive.
That is why the policy of economic and social cohesion, real economic convergence, a reduction of inequalities between the regions, the concentration of resources upon the Union's poorest areas and solidarity between Europeans are the essential parameters for a development which will be the more effective and competitive the more fairly it is distributed.
It is a fact that the European regional policy has led to great improvements in the development rate of areas which were characterised by macroeconomic imbalances and low competitiveness, such as Greece.
However, it is known that several Member States are pursuing national strategies and state subsidy policies which are in many respects incompatible with the European cohesion policy to combat regional inequalities.
Mr President, as is customary every year, the Commission's 27th report on competition policy provides a good picture of the Commission's thinking in this area and of its specific policy data.
I thank her for her fine and constructive cooperation, and all I can really say is that her report sets out what we in the PPE Group wished to say on the subject.
The PPE Group's view is that account must be taken of the special role of certain professions in the general interest of society.
Mr President, we definitely need a strategy which targets better coordination of regional policy and competition policy at European level.
The Commission plans to reduce the percentage of the total population of the Union receiving state-funded regional aid over the period 2000-2006.
Geographic concentration is welcome if it serves to improve the effectiveness of this type of aid and create positive discrimination towards the less favoured regions, especially when 85 % of state regional aid for industrial projects today goes to the four richest Member States and only 8.3 % to the least developed four.
In these lean years for employment, synergy between national aid and Community aid can open up new paths and inspire new hopes.
In particular, national regional aid could be granted to provide an incentive for productive investment, paying particular attention to the creation of jobs directly and indirectly linked to the investment.
Investment in jobs must then be maintained in the region concerned for at least five years, so that national aid does not encourage relocations.
In addition to that there is also a problem for the ultraperipheral and island regions which, because of their difficult geographic position and their particular intrinsic nature, are already amongst the least favoured regions in the whole Community.
As the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe, it is our duty to voice the needs of the people in the least favoured areas and to remain constantly vigilant to ensure respect for the fundamental principle of economic and social cohesion in the policies of the Union.
I want to particularly praise Paragraph 14, where she is asking the Commission to examine unfair practices and also Paragraph 22 which is recognising the need for increased consistency between national aid schemes, Union aid schemes and competition policy.
I hope that the Commission will deal with this point in response because it is particularly important that the issue is highlighted and that the Commission response is on public record.
My colleagues are going to take a careful note of your response.
Certainly, ever since the Treaty of Rome, competition policy has been an integral part of the European economy as an essential factor in competitiveness for each of the European regions, whether less favoured or developed.
Before the Treaty of Maastricht, competition policy and the policy of economic and social cohesion ran parallel, but with the new provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty, currently in the process of ratification, it has become necessary to strengthen the complementarity and balance between them, given that cohesion, which expresses the duty of solidarity between the Member States, has become the priority for the construction of Europe.
Although the European Union's competition policy and its regional policy have very different roots, there is now an obvious need to have greater coherence and consistency on coordination between, on the one hand, national state aids, competition policy and the European Union's regional policy.
Flexibility is needed essentially because we are talking about two different kinds of aid.
That is done through the European Union's structural funds.
To help people in one area occasionally you have to allow state aid to industries in another area.
Such tax regimes must not be imposed by the Commission as the norm for the EU as a whole.
It is also fair to say that levels of preferential treatment, either in the form of tax concessions or grant aid, that are not acceptable within a Member State are also unacceptable within the European Union, whether these are in the form of benefits that come from the EU or from national governments.
The list of 85 cases of tax reliefs, some of which are reminiscent of tax havens, currently before us speaks volumes.
From Rome to Maastricht it was recognised that we needed a cohesion policy geared to strengthening the less favoured regions of the Union, thus substantially pursuing the same purpose - a homogeneous common market.
Between Maastricht and Amsterdam the aim was adjusted, as it was recognised that the free play of competition and market homogeneity could only be achieved through a policy of economic and social cohesion that paid more attention to territorial reality.
It is in that spirit that the Amsterdam Treaty adds, for example, a reference to the island regions, so that they can start from a level playing-field and compete on an equal footing while respecting market forces.
But regional policy can actually lead to unintentional distortions of competition.
Thus it can happen that Ireland is still an Objective 1 region in 1999, the criterion for which is a GDP of less than 75 % of the Union average.
Yet Ireland's GDP in 1997 was already above the Union average, and the following year it was actually 116 % of average GDP for the Union.
To say that a country like Ireland has to adjust to no longer being an Objective 1 region under the new financial perspective and that it therefore needs both operating and investment aids for a few more years, whilst discriminatory tax regimes can continue till the year 2010, seems to me too daft for words, because that aid enables Ireland to lure firms away from other Union countries which are now poorer than Ireland.
Such success would not have been possible without a policy guaranteeing competition as the best security for economic growth and job creation.
Nevertheless, free competition and growth must never compromise social and economic cohesion, key elements of the acquis communautaire , to which the Union devotes a significant proportion of its budget.
This is not a trivial question and has never been clarified, though the Commission attempted to do so in 1975, 1979 and 1988.
Any other interpretation would certainly be branded as eurocentrist, difficult to justify and therefore unacceptable.
I realise this is not the time for him to give me a detailed report, but I trust he will be able to give his opinion on the state of the discussions, and reassure public opinion which is very sensitive to this issue.
But the situation is different in some other countries.
But the Commission is not taking sufficient account of the special problems of the regions when it subordinates everything to the imperative of free competition and tries to cut back European aid while at the same time taking away any means of granting national aid to compensate for this in a flexible manner.
In that respect I welcome the fact that agreement seems to be emerging between the Council and the Commission on taking a more flexible approach to the flexibility question, on not specifying any target dates and giving the Member States more margin for decision.
I am also grateful that we agree at least on the question of principle, namely that we need greater coherence between national and regional aid policies.
It makes no sense to embark on a kind of division of labour that would mean that European structural policy looked after the less eligible areas and that national aid was then concentrated on the areas most in need of structural adjustment.
What we are in fact proposing is to widen the Member States' regional margin for play, for as a rule national competition aid covers areas wider than those that can be supported through the Structural Funds.
I hope that in future the monitoring committees will ensure this too.
During this debate many speakers have said that this concentration is the crux of the reform and that without concentration any positive effects for poorer regions would be reduced out.
That is why I think it is so important that we do not counteract our own endeavours by watering down the 75 % criterion.
For the rest, the ultraperipheral regions do not face any problems, because they all fulfil the strict 75 % criterion.
In that sense I hope we will agree during the further discussions on Agenda 2000, and above all its implementation, on the need jointly to promote the necessary coherence so that the structurally weakest areas can catch up.
I am truly delighted by the quality of the reports, and also of the debate.
As a result, it is rather a shame, Mr President, that there is so little time to respond to the many comments made and real issues mentioned.
Therefore, I would like to ask you to forgive me for only responding to a few of the points that have been raised, but this is down to necessity.
It is a fundamental issue as the Commission has a direct and specific responsibility in this field.
It is both logical and necessary that, at any point in time, the Commission should be prepared to appear before Parliament or before the responsible committees to explain the decisions that it is taking or refusing to take.
We need to agree on the objectives of this process.
Currently, 51 % of the population live in regions eligible for Structural Fund aid, and 47 % in regions eligible for national or regional aid.
This is a rather delicate and at times politically difficult operation because even reducing the number of eligible regions by only 4 % - and reducing them from 47 % to 43-42.7 % is not difficult - is already causing a great deal of political upset.
Such relocations can be explained by the fact that sometimes, in certain regions, the intensity of aid is such that firms leave other eligible regions to move to regions where the intensity of aid is much greater.
You have called on us to do something about this.
So, in answer to your request, we are reducing the differences in intensity whilst also remaining within acceptable limits as the limit for A regions is 40 or 50 %.
For the outermost regions the limit may be even more, but for C regions I believe that an intensity of 20 % is a suitable ceiling and, in certain circumstances, could even drop to 10 %.
Therefore, in the future, our policy will be much more balanced than before.
Once again, we have been given an additional responsibility, which we would indeed like to carry out, but for goodness' sake, from now on, there should be more consistency by giving us the means we need to carry out this type of work.
Secondly, it is true that this operation, not only in Spain but in other Member States, will involve what we call 'stranded costs', but in principle it is a state aid issue.
For the moment, I cannot say any more than that.
The fact that the Canary Islands will remain an A region will clearly let us consider allowing more aid than if they had moved from an A ranking to a C ranking.
Mr President, I see that I have already exceeded my speaking time.
You know that we have already taken a series of steps as regards state aid and in other areas such as vertical restraints, and so on.
The debate is closed.
Parliament has put forward a very interesting resolution and I note with satisfaction that we are agreed on the great majority of points.
My assessment of the Buenos Aires conference is also that it was a success, although the overall result was limited.
Secondly, the EU played an important role in getting the G77 countries and China to the negotiating table, so that they could feel more closely involved in the process.
I continue to focus on better relations with the developing countries in connection with the preparations for the Fifth Conference of the Parties, not least by prioritising the practical formulation of the mechanism for sustainable development, the Clean Development Mechanism.
I believe that such ad hoc meetings are crucial in keeping the process on the right track.
As regards the individual parts of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, I have the following comments to make: we have some hard work ahead of us in formulating detailed rules on the mechanisms, in particular because monitoring and recording are needed in order to prevent these mechanisms from being used as loopholes in the environmental legislation.
We also want to continue the debate on how we can achieve the Convention's final objective, namely to prevent dangerous climate change, at the same time ensuring that the burdens are shared fairly and taking into account our common but differentiated responsibilities.
It is important that we do further work on implementing policies and measures to combat climate change, not just at international level but to an even greater degree in the EU and hence in the Member States.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council must take their responsibilities seriously and come up with concrete actions and decisions.
In this connection, I stress that some important proposals have been presented which require a decision, for example the proposal on taxation of energy products.
I strongly urge Parliament to deliver its opinion on this proposal before the parliamentary elections, so that the new momentum from the German Presidency can be used to advantage and so that political agreement can be reached at the meeting of the ECOFIN Council in May.
With the Plan of Action and the internal policies and measures, our aim is that the Kyoto Protocol should be ratified and take effect as quickly as possible.
There were signs in Buenos Aires of a more positive attitude on the part of certain sections of the American Congress.
But the goal has still not been attained, far from it, and honourable Members have a valuable role to play in continuing - as they did in Buenos Aires - to persuade their colleagues in the American Congress that the Protocol must be ratified.
In the long term it is important that the developing countries should be involved, but the real test of such voluntary commitments is their final effect in practice.
This undertaking was welcomed by the European Council in Vienna, which concluded that it would take a decision on the basis of a report from the Commission on a comprehensive EU strategy for climate policy at its meeting in Cologne which, as you know, will be held at the beginning of June.
The year 2008 looks far ahead in the future, but we must act now if we are to have any chance of achieving our objective.
In the Commission communication therefore, we will concentrate on those elements that are crucial to ensuring that the EU can achieve its objectives.
The communication will contain a full analysis of the effects of the trade in emission rights, common implementation and the Clean Development Mechanism.
One of these - and a very important one too - is to continue the dialogue with the developing countries that was so productive in Buenos Aires so that we can develop the proposals for the clean development mechanism together with these countries.
I also believe that, even though we have had little joy on this from the outset, we in the European Union must come up with some very specific proposals as to how emissions trading should ultimately work, how monitoring can be carried out and how individual emissions and reductions in emissions are to be assessed, so that we are armed with this information when the time comes.
Mr President, before I speak to the resolution, can I clear up a translation error.
In fact, you were much wiser than that.
I had the honour to lead Parliament's delegation to the Buenos Aires Conference and the report from myself and other colleagues is available to Parliament.
The Buenos Aires Action Plan promises some progress by the time of COP VI in the year 2000.
For the first time it reflects interest in the principles of contraction and convergence and of global equity which this Parliament has voted for regularly.
The latest Council guidelines on MEP involvement, decided on a week before Buenos Aires, are positively insulting to Parliament.
I have raised the matter with the President and I hope that the Committee on Institutional Affairs would look at this in the context of the next IGC.
The Union learnt the lessons of our relative failure in Kyoto and reached out towards countries in the Group of 77, looking for allies in the cause of sanity in protecting the climate of the planet.
Despite what the Commissioner said about the possibility of political progress between COPs, I should like to encourage the idea of a structural review of the whole process of the Conference of the Parties.
The rhythm of the Conference of the Parties makes it difficult to take political initiatives between conferences.
We have the Buenos Aires action plan and we should give this our full attention, because important decisions will have to be taken at the climate conference in the year 2000.
I should like to emphasise two points.
Firstly, if the Kyoto protocol is to come into force, it has to be ratified by at least 55 of the parties which account for at least 55 % of all emissions.
My second point is that emissions trading can only be allowed if the bulk of the effort is made at national level.
The Union rightly maintains that action to combat climate change only makes sense if everyone plays their part.
There are those who say, perhaps rightly, that the answer lies in better technology so that the level of emissions is reduced.
But the increase in air transport means that measures will definitely be needed in this area too.
Scientists also tell us that emissions must be brought down to between 50 % and 60 % of their 1990 levels, if we are to have a positive impact on climate change.
We are aiming at an 8 % reduction in the emission of six greenhouse gases.
If we do not even achieve that 8 % reduction, we shall be endangering the future of the planet.
Mr Spencer said it was a moderate success.
I recall Commissioner Bjerregaard saying at the press conference at the end that we would have wanted to achieve more, that we always do, but that this was as much as we could persuade the other parties to the conference to agree to.
The European Union showed real leadership, supported to a large extent by the candidate countries, the G77 and China.
In Buenos Aires we kept the momentum of Kyoto by establishing the action plan which was one of the objectives of Buenos Aires and deciding on other measures like the elaboration of a compliance system.
While recognising that it may be a diplomatic formality, as we say in the resolution, at the same time it is very effective and signals a change of opinion in the United States.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fitzsimons, I would ask you not to exceed the time you have been allocated.
I know you are all very responsible and will take this reminder in the spirit in which it is meant.
It is also important that those countries that wish to go further than others can, in addition, adopt this original proposal for a carbon dioxide and energy tax.
This will have repercussions on the tax systems of the industrialised countries which are included in Annex I.
I particularly dislike the pressure put by the developed countries, in particular the USA, on the developing countries to undertake to reduce their emissions too.
The Kyoto Protocol stipulates that funding can be granted for reforestation, particularly for carbon sequestration and especially within the CDM or Clean Development Mechanism.
This can play an important role in allowing the industrialised countries to support and provide funding for reforestation projects in developing countries.
Mr President, the outcome of the 1997 Kyoto conference on climate change was rightly seen as a turning-point, albeit only a first step in the right direction.
The follow-up conference in Buenos Aires has resulted in a single programme of action with pledges and timetables.
It is also very important to assist other countries, for example by the transfer of cleaner technology which can be provided through development aid.
To achieve this reduction in emission levels, environmental policy needs to be incorporated into other policy sectors, such as energy, transport and agriculture.
Mr President, the slower-than-slow approach to reducing emissions that was adopted in Buenos Aires is like trying to have a wash without getting wet.
Total CO2 emissions in the European Union rose by 2 % between 1990 and 1996.
In other words, accelerated economic growth in particular means that, by the year 2000, we must expect CO2 emissions to be higher - and indeed measurably higher - than their 1990 levels.
Since 1995, per capita CO2 emissions have risen considerably there as a result of economic growth.
I should really like to know exactly what each country and each industry has to do, what is expected in terms of transport policy and even what households should be doing.
Mr President, although Mr Linkohr has taken two-thirds of my speech, I am actually 100 % in agreement with what he has said.
I want to start by thanking the Commission and particularly the Commissioner for their work and personal commitment and also for the way in which, in Buenos Aires, they received and worked with the representatives of this House.
Unfortunately, the Council adopted an attitude which it cannot maintain.
In Portugal, for example, electricity consumption grew by 6 % last year, which was double the growth in production.
We have spoken to Commissioner Papoutsis and we agree that the directive is urgently needed.
The penetration of renewable energy in the market has been shrinking because of the fall in the price of oil and natural gas, and also given that the cost of energy does not currently include environmental costs.
As for the applicant countries, PHARE and TACIS now have no influence over their energy consumption.
To conclude, I must say that the Commission could perhaps support the initiatives of certain companies such as BP and others, which are assuming positive attitudes towards climate change, by organising a major event in Brussels on the positive role that could be played by companies prepared to take this issue seriously.
I should also like to hear from you exactly what is to happen now with regard to the implementation of the White Paper on renewable energy sources?
We know that CO2 emissions by vehicles are set to rise by 38 % between now and 2010.
However, I want to ask the Commission what action it is taking to green its approach to the single market, to the way it is implemented and to the way competition policy works, to the way in which it spends overseas aid, to its policy on trade, to its accession negotiations, which a lot of colleagues have mentioned, and the structural funds as well as the CAP.
The United States is not going to ratify simply because we asked it to.
Emissions do not pose a threat in the short term, but in the long term they are infinitely more serious.
Research carried out in Scandinavia shows that trade in carbon dioxide emissions in the Nordic countries would cut costs by 50 %.
I agree with Members who have said that dialogue is fundamental, but I also want to mention that, in just two months, the Joint ACP-EU Assembly, which has a working group on climate change in small island states, will not only be adopting a highly important resolution for the developing countries but will certainly be making a statement after two years of work.
Mr President, I should like to thank Parliament for the debate.
Parliament and the Commission are in agreement, but the reality we come up against is different: it could be said that the other parties we have to deal with, who are crucial in ensuring that all this will come to something, are not thinking on the same lines as ourselves.
I agree with Mrs Graenitz and others that the applicant countries must be more closely involved.
We had some discussion of this in Buenos Aires.
The question of a flight tax or a kerosene tax, which we have discussed once or twice, is somewhat more difficult.
There will be some initiatives on the internal market.
Fortunately, I can say that the German Presidency has included the proposal on strategic environmental assessment on its prioritised list, so it is also my hope that we can make further progress in this area.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
Since irradiation is practised in several countries, such as France, Belgium and the Netherlands, and since we have a single market in which irradiated products are traded, there is no real point now in maintaining the old position that Parliament once adopted.
I believe that today we not only need to congratulate the rapporteur on her report but that we can also congratulate ourselves as a Parliament for our dogged, lengthy and ultimately successful efforts to achieve a number of improvements to the original Council proposal and hence to the common position too.
I also believe that the large size of many farms in the applicant countries makes it necessary for us to ensure that the directive is adopted before any enlargement of the Union, so that there is a body of EU food-safety legislation which can be applied to these farms from the outset.
The market in food treated with ionised radiation will gradually become a single market too.
I believe this represents a major success, and I cannot help emphasising the specific role played by my group in the inclusion of standardised and validated verification methods in the directive.
Improving food variety and quality through added value is now central to a modern food sector.
The quality of the product, information on its source and full details of the added value process must at all times be fully available to consumers.
This Parliament has played a key role in ensuring that the concerns of consumers are taken into account and that the eventual risks related to the control mechanisms are minimized.
We can understand that in each Member State the same conditions apply and the same safeguards apply.
This is perhaps the first time we have been able to come to some sort of consensus on an aspect of radiation and radiation treatment.
My second point is that we have always pressed for labelling, so that every consumer can choose whether or not to buy one of this limited range of treated food products.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz rightly said that we should have a certain amount of trust in the consumer.
That is why I am glad that we have finally reached this point.
But if you can quote anything in our Rules of Procedure or in the Maastricht Treaty to show how Parliament could have been any quicker in dealing with this matter, I shall naturally be more than willing to act on your advice when the other two subjects come up.
The debate is closed.
The report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, deals with one aspect of the banana problem; although it is undoubtedly relevant to the WTO issue, it only deals with the payments to banana producers in ACP countries.
The Council has rejected some important amendments which Parliament tabled at first reading.
This has always been a parliamentary priority and should also play a very prominent part in the allocation of funds to producers, rather than the minor role suggested by the Council in the common position.
The committee also decided by a majority vote to increase the funding of the programme and to diversify the funding targets in some respects, as set out in Amendments Nos 19, 9 and 15.
That, however, is exactly what the Commission and the Council have done, even though Parliament adopted the amendment by a large majority at the first reading.
I support this report because it takes account of the interests of the most disadvantaged suppliers.
I also support this report because it stresses the importance of respecting social standards, working conditions and the environment and because it stipulates special support measures for fair trade bananas.
We socialists hope that assistance will be granted to improve quality and we believe that it is essential to help diversify production because, for many ACP countries, the banana is the only source of income.
Thus the contributions made by MEPs, added to the proposals accepted by the Council at first reading, such as taking into account the particularly dramatic situation of Somalia, will, I believe, all help to produce a very satisfactory regulation, provided that we are able to allocate a budget to the tune of approximately ECU 500 million for more than ten years, depending on how the ACP countries and the market develop.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as I said last June during the debate on the first reading of this report, the reform of the common market organisation for bananas proposed by the Commission was forced on us following the decision taken by the World Trade Organisation's group of experts further to the complaint from Ecuador and three other countries.
What happened was that the United States showed its true colours and is now openly threatening the Union with trade reprisals against a list of European products if we do not modify our policy on protecting the banana production of ACP countries.
These very points indicate the philosophy of the European Union, which gives us the right idea of the free market.
It is wrong to think of the free market as a market without rules and where everyone competes regardless of relative strength.
It is precisely because we support this view of the free market that my group opposes Amendment No 9 to Article 1(2) of this report, tabled by the ARE Group.
The original text talks about a special framework for banana producers, to be implemented for a maximum period not exceeding ten years starting on 1 January 1999.
Mr President, we have two symbolic issues before us this evening.
We are calling into question our cooperation policy with the ACP countries because the import licences are being called into question.
We are calling into question our human rights policy because, in Honduras, it is the multinational firm United Brand, now owned by Chiquita, which keeps order.
We are calling into question our social policy because the people producing these bananas are slaves earning only EUR 35 per month.
And once again, faced with the United States' Section 301, our Europe of 370 million inhabitants, of the euro, a Europe with new power, is submitting in Kosovo, in Iraq and now on the issue of bananas.
Mr President, we have now reached the second reading of the proposal for a regulation we are forced to adopt, following the World Trade Organisation ruling, so as not to penalise further the traditional banana suppliers of the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
On the whole the common position of the Council improves the original proposal for a regulation, thanks primarily to the European Parliament's action at first reading.
The Council's common position accepts Parliament's amendments designed to take account of the special position of Somalia and its banana producers.
As there has never been such a reaction before, we can only conclude that the US administration is more concerned about one or two multinational firms producing bananas in Latin America than about its own farmers.
Having said this, its reaction is also disproportionate in view of the production claimed by the European Union, which is relatively small and comes from peripheral regions such as Madeira and the Canaries or from poor ACP countries where there are no alternatives capable of supporting the rural population with a minimum decent standard of living.
Finally, the retaliation that has been announced of limiting the imports of various products is also disproportionate and inappropriate because it will indiscriminately penalise countries, regions and sectors which have nothing to do with bananas.
Looking at the list, we can see that in order to defend one major multinational whose name has already been mentioned several times, European sectors where small and medium-sized businesses predominate are to be condemned, to a large extent involving the poorest countries and regions.
Disregarding this sad episode - which we hope will rapidly enter into obscurity - we must now look at the basic question of whether this will be the pattern for the future, with the two major world powers with very particular responsibilities in international trade being at loggerheads?
Between October 1997 and January 1998, 70 % of the banana plantations were destroyed by a flood which submerged the plants for four or five months, permanently undermining their ability to survive.
Well, now the organisation of Somali producers exists and is recognised at both continental and international level.
Last year the Council adopted the measures necessary to bring the common market organisation for bananas into conformity with WTO rules.
In order to enable traditional ACP suppliers to maintain their presence on the EU market as agreed under the Lomé Convention, the Commission has in parallel put forward this proposal establishing a special framework for technical and financial assistance.
This support is intended to help them to adapt to the new market conditions and in particular to enhance the competitiveness of their production.
I think we are agreed on the need for this regulation and for the need to get it in place as soon as possible so that the traditional ACP suppliers can continue their efforts to improve their competitiveness.
We have taken on board four specific amendments but our agreement goes much further than that.
We all know that there are parts of the banana industry in the traditional ACP countries where production will probably not survive in a more competitive EU market.
There are many other methods by which an ACP country can improve its banana sector in a sustainable way.
This concept does not reflect our overall objective of improving the level of competitiveness of traditional ACP banana production.
For those who do not know it, St Lucia is a very hilly country in which it will take you more than an hour to drive a distance of 20 km.
All projects should be integrated as part of a country strategy within the global envelope envisaged.
This is not because I am absolutely convinced that ten years will be sufficient but because at this juncture we must have some radical changes as soon as possible in order to gain that competitiveness.
The reason we have some resistance is very simple.
Finally, I should like to say a word or two on Somalia.
This country, as you know, has been without a government as such for a long time.
The Commission proposed that, bearing in mind the conditions prevailing in Somalia, and the fact that in some parts of the country the situation was more peaceful and the people were willing to make efforts for the development to continue our assistance, including in the case of bananas.
It is a clear situation in which the economies of different small countries - and if you visit them you would understand why they depend so much on this product as there are not many options - are being absolutely ignored in comparison with the interests of two multinationals.
But we must be aware that if we do not stand united, be it in Parliament or especially in the Council, we will weaken our position very much.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, first of all, can I say that the Parliament and the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee recognise that the implementation of universal service is at a very early stage and I hope that my criticisms, as set out in the report, will be taken in that spirit.
I want also to remind us all that the European Parliament's support for the liberalisation process of telecommunications goes hand in hand with the introduction and implementation of universal service.
It is very clear that market forces cannot, at least in the short run, deliver on universal service.
Unfortunately, as the text of my report makes clear, there is a lack of information from the Member States on which to assess progress.
Remember in the voice telephony directive, the Parliament placed great stress on the rights of disabled users to access to telephones, both from a social point of view and also from the point of view of being able to gain work often from home.
After I had drafted this report, BEUC, the European Union consumers' organisation, produced their own analysis on the implementation of the voice telephony directive.
I very much hope that the Commissioner will accept this report with its criticisms and I hope that it will strengthen his arm and those of his officials in making greater and speedier demands on the Member States to truly implement a universal service in the telephone field.
In conclusion, Mr President, this report certainly represents a significant step forward, but a lot of ground remains to be covered.
This monitoring report therefore also provides a way of assessing something which is much more than just a name - ' universal service' instead of 'public service' - it is a whole philosophy which is self-revealing as it has shown how commitments which were used as justification or even a pretext have been sidelined or even ignored.
Mr President, I too would like to join with my colleagues in welcoming the report by Mrs Read.
Some of my colleagues have already touched on the points.
Because the new technologies which have been brought forward do offer new opportunities for communications and for greater interaction of people with disabilities and the wider community that should be encouraged and given at a lower rate.
The development of public access to the Internet, in schools and libraries for instance, is an extremely important matter to which this and other Parliaments ought to devote more attention in the future.
If access by part of the population to the information media is denied or obstructed, stark differences in education levels will result, and these could create a glaring inequality of opportunity in the job market.
Some countries have low costs, others have high costs, but this report does not give a clear and comparative view of the costs of using the European telecommunications networks in the various Member States.
Negotiations on creating an Internet card or code are continuing but the Internet remains outside the universal service in telecommunications.
Public access to the Internet must be regarded as a personal right and as a strategic position in the fight against a new form of emerging illiteracy which will afflict all those in the future who have not mastered the use of the modern information technologies or who do not have access to them.
Some Member States, anticipating the amended voice telephony directive, have already introduced more stringent measures to protect consumers.
Moreover, the amended voice telephony directive provides for special tariffs for low-income users, price ceilings and affordability criteria in Article 3 and prescribes special measures for disabled users and users with special social needs in Article 8.
The services may be put out to tender, but they may also be based on a cost calculation, prices then being fixed to cover only the net cost of the service.
I can promise you that we intend to re-examine the universal service in connection with the review of legislation scheduled for the end of 1999, and that we shall subsequently communicate the results to Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, as colleagues will know, this report offers a broad outline of the progress we have made and should be making in the immediate future on the question of public procurement.
Following the adoption of the Amsterdam Treaty where the EU underlined its commitment to the greening of European policies, we need to clarify how these principles will affect public procurement legislation.
We have further requirements placed upon us by global or international commitments.
Since, following the Green Paper, we have agreed that contracting authorities have a right to set environmental standards if they so wish, we need to know exactly how they can implement those rights without breaching the overriding rules on competition.
In the same way, concerning the issues of social affairs and employment, we have consistently said that public procurement is not a vehicle for promoting a particular policy in this area but adhesion to the rules and regulations of procurement must not be allowed to impede good employment practices.
We want to see how they are taking forward the principles of clarity, simplicity and legal applicability and making public procurement legislation pertinent, effective and enforceable within our modern society.
There may be some differences still which can be identified at national level but it is clear that the process of liberalisation in this sector is irreversible.
It is supposed to benefit the user so the underlying principle of any decision on competition must always include the consumer to ensure they retain the right to choose the most cost-effective service for them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs naturally looked at this communication primarily from the point of view of public procurement, on the one hand, and respect for social legislation and the use of social clauses on the other.
The practice surrounding social clauses differs widely in the various Member States.
I shall focus on two points here.
Secondly, very many Member States and local authorities use public contracts to take positive measures to help the long-term unemployed, the integration of migrants or the launch of neighbourhood campaigns.
What if it were also that bidding for public procurement contracts is not compatible with other principles that apply in the public sector?
SMEs, and especially those that are obliged to observe labour legislation and environmental standards, need more information and training, however.
Mr President, the directives on public procurement were an important step in our efforts to make the European market more competitive and more open.
The directive provides for thresholds whereby it is no longer possible, above a given threshold, to tender in a private or national capacity.
Large companies simply decide to have nothing further to do with public contracts and concentrate solely on the ordinary market.
Many authorities have no provision for the service of capital, a system which is short-sighted and expensive for the citizen in the long run.
My group will be voting against Mr Tappin's Amendment No 5.
Mr President, in its communication, the Commission has stressed the importance of full and fair competition.
It seems to me to be quite a commonly held view that applying environmental and social criteria to public procurement would destroy free competition.
At a general level, I want to take this opportunity to emphasise the need to make the tender procedure more transparent at European level, both procedurally and in terms of the dissemination of information.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to draw your attention to one aspect of these directives and of this report by the Commission.
Parliament, through the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has called for a marked increase in the thresholds, and I believe, Commissioner, that the Commission ought to display considerably more courage in this matter than it has done in the past.
The thresholds that apply today are far too low in many areas.
That is why we ask you, Commissioner, not only to improve the transparency of the public procurement system, but also to take the initiative now in preparation for the next round of international negotiations in the GATT framework in the year 2000 by substantially increasing the thresholds, not only for services but also for public works contracts.
If additional transparency can also be achieved through the use of modern media, such as the Internet, I believe all these things will put us on the right path, and I am convinced that the Commission can also take action to that end with the support of Parliament.
So it gives me great satisfaction to welcome the proposals and suggestions in the report on which there is a substantial convergence of view between our two institutions.
It is our intention to examine these issues in depth to identify appropriate ways of reconciling the objectives of competition and transparency pursued by the rules on procurement contracts with the legitimate environmental and social protection requirements, which have been strengthened by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Here we should not forget that the current rules already offer concrete opportunities for achieving adequate levels of protection, environmental in particular, but also social, without this altering the fundamental purpose of procurement policy, which remains essentially economic in nature.
I would add that there are provisions in the directives to exclude candidates failing to comply with national social legislation.
With a view to this, proposals are being put forward designed to exclude from the scope of Directive 93/38 the sectors and/or services covered by it which operate under conditions of effective competition - water, energy, transport and telecommunications - and establish more flexible procedures, like the procedure known as 'competitive dialogue' and the framework agreements system.
This is an aim the Commission has always pursued in public procurement and it is the ultimate purpose of the interpretative communication on concessions and other forms of public and private partnership, which will be published in draft form in the next few weeks.
I would also like to touch very quickly on the important point raised, in particular, by Mrs Peijs.
To reduce these difficulties and encourage the participation of small and medium-sized businesses, the Commission is drafting a communication to highlight the possibilities for giving SMEs increased access to public procurement in general, both through appropriate legislative changes and by identifying the opportunities currently offered by the existing programmes.
In this regard I have already proposed that a discussion group should be set up in Parliament for ad hoc informal meetings, tasked with interacting with the Commission departments concerned, and I think this idea should be studied in greater depth and acted upon, while still, of course, respecting the separate spheres of responsibility of our two institutions.
Mr President, even at this late hour, a certain degree of attentiveness is required.
Protests The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, numerous academic studies and publications by employers' associations, organisations representing small and medium-sized businesses, trade unions and public institutions have served as the basis for my report on jobs of the future in Europe.
There is absolutely nothing contradictory in the fact that the alliance for work which the German Federal Government is pursuing nationally, and which it is pursuing at European level during its presidency, is a useful contribution to employment growth.
So I am quite amazed by your comment because, as you know, we support your report in principle.
We see your report as a tile in the mosaic of the parliamentary quest for more employment, as part of the continuous process that we have been pursuing in Parliament for the past four years through the employment policy we initiated, through the Amsterdam employment summit and through the Luxembourg guidelines, despite some governments having dropped the occasional spanner into the works.
In my opinion, the second avenue of strengthening growth potential and improving basic conditions also requires special support.
By this, of course, I mean support for new business activities, for the tertiary sector, care services and, needless to say, for our great hope for the future, the SMEs.
I should also like to mention one other target group that is often neglected in this debate, namely the foreigners who live with us in our EU Member States and whose enterprising spirit has done a great deal to provide additional employment.
The economy and competition have dominated cooperation in the EU for far too long.
I believe that peace, employment and the environment are the only areas by which our European citizens set great store.
The sections of the Amsterdam Treaty devoted to employment are commendable.
Last summer, I visited a company in central Sweden: a small paper mill with 300 employees.
The Liberal Group supports this report.
Despite the risks and the dangers which new advances and new technologies present, they also offer us a wonderful new opportunity to correct some of the errors of the past, to be more socially cohesive within Europe.
A lot of mention has been made within the report and by colleagues speaking here tonight, and I am sure the Commissioner will also touch on it, about the importance of lifelong learning and education.
By investing more of our resources into giving real education and real training to our people then we can guarantee that they will benefit from the huge explosion in job creation opportunities which will be presented.
Nobody should be denied the opportunity to ensure that they can play their full role in life.
Mr President, this report is like a mosaic which has the virtue of being in many different parts and therefore raising many issues.
It is a report which has not confined itself to simply expressing our concerns or to obtaining the unanimous approval of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs (our concerns necessarily involve opposing exclusions from the current development model), but has put forward certain solutions which have already been mentioned such as work-sharing.
We therefore have to find new ways of tackling this problem by recognising that we need to establish companies rooted in the people which, as has already been said, can help to solve the problems of the elderly, of community services and of the environment and which can be recognised and compensated in tax terms.
Jobs must be created and this means achieving agreement and cooperation on investment, because jobs which appear only in social statistics, which have no social quality, which have no future and which are inappropriate forms of social interaction between people are surely not the European social model which we want to build.
In any event, be that as it may, I think this report is particularly important for two reasons.
And here, quite rightly I think, the report points out that, firstly, one such sector is information technology and the electronics industry; a second sector, and one of particular interest to my own country, is tourism, agri-tourism and more generally the leisure industry.
It is clear that this sector will grow at the expense of the secondary sector; and, of course, a fourth sector comprises small and medium-sized enterprises, which are much more flexible and can create many jobs, as has been demonstrated.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to raise three points.
Joint efforts by the Member States to introduce innovations in this sector seem to hold the greatest promise.
A mere 2 % have been living and working for any length of time in a Member State other than their own.
Jobseekers are still too frequently unaware of employment opportunities beyond their national borders, and obstacles to the mobility of trainees and labour have still not been removed.
Initiatives such as EURES and Citizens First are steps in the right direction, but are not yet the complete answer.
It is up to Parliament, the Commission and the Council to launch new initiatives.
Finally, may I again express my very sincere thanks to Thomas Mann for his excellent report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, the unemployment rate dipped below 10 % for the first time in several years.
Thomas Mann's excellent report is especially valuable in this sense.
For this reason, it is essential to supply products and services that will actually be bought.
The report also refers to the fear that technological change could result in more redundancies than new jobs.
The information society, for example, is the most dynamic economic sector in the European Union.
More than 300 000 new jobs were created in this area of the information society between 1995 and 1997.
The management team or, in smaller businesses, the manager, must be quick to recognise market openings for their products and services and must adjust their range rapidly to keep up with customer demand.
They need to be well treated, well informed and well paid.
The rapporteur, Thomas Mann, has made many good proposals.
I am all for defending the welfare state in the market economies of Europe, but I reject any attempt to spoonfeed people, because that could prevent the creation of jobs with a future.
The emphasis is given to the potential which exists to increase employment and services; the need to reform education and training systems and to allow for lifelong learning; the emphasis that needs to be given to women in employment policy and the importance of targeting small and medium sized enterprises in employment policy; the call for involvement of the social partners in the formulation of training policy and the calls for greater links between industry and sites.
The results of this peer review will be included in the 1999 joint employment report.
I would like to make the point, however, that specific policies to be carried out in each Member State are normally best determined at national level.
In Paragraphs 32 and 33 I welcome that the Parliament recognises women as a special target group.
I would like to say to Mr Mann that he is right when he says that portfolio jobs will be the order of the future, three and four changes in a lifetime.
They are focusing extremely highly on the question of young unemployed people and the question of women in the labour market.
That is what we want to see from the implementation in every Member State.
It is there that we have fallen behind the United States and we have to make up that difference because our employment rate has been falling for the past 25 years.
The debate is closed.
The Commission's proposal implements the revision clause in Article 9 of the existing directive, whereby, on the basis of a report by the Scientific Veterinary Committee, it must put forward proposals for adaptation to take account of advances in our knowledge.
Our committee welcomed the Commission proposal because it is a step in the right direction, in other words it seeks to improve the conditions in which laying hens are kept.
In the first place, there is the increasing of the minimum floor area per bird from 450 to 800 cm2 , a measure which we particularly welcome, since the widely held view is that the current rules do not allow birds to follow their natural behaviour patterns, with the result that they are not kept in a manner appropriate to their species.
In addition to the option of cofinanced investment aids under the efficiency Regulation 950/97/EC, the committee is proposing the introduction of a system of aid which is independent of production, limited in time and paid on a reducing scale.
The committee did not use the term 'battery cage' in connection with the new proposal for a directive, because it is inadequate and misleading.
The life-sized photograph I have brought with me tonight from a national newspaper showing the realities of space that are allowed by a conventional or battery cage says more than many hours of debate here possibly could.
Sadly, my committee is of the opinion that without financial measures in Member States to assist producers to move to alternative methods, it is unlikely the welcome aims of the directive will be effectively met.
According to the European Commission's own Scientific Veterinary Committee, the battery cage system has - and my colleague Clive Needle just referred to this - ' inherent severe disadvantages for the welfare of hens'.
Only yesterday a new report highlighted the pitiful plight of the battery hen, crammed into a cage at just 18 weeks, no room to flap its wings, not enough room to stand fully upright, not able to scratch, doze or bathe.
After a year, at the end of their working lives, the scrawny near-naked birds are slaughtered and turned into pies, soup or petfood.
One in three of these birds sent for slaughter have fresh broken bones and almost all birds suffer from osteoporosis.
This latter fact means that we must take care over our legislative work and give producers a powerful incentive to review their systems of production in such a way as to ensure a higher level of animal welfare in farms which are economically viable in the European Union.
The Scientific Veterinary Committee will have to give a ruling on this too, and other aspects will have to be considered such as environmental considerations and the working conditions of poultry farmers.
The Liberal Group believes, in the first place, that in this case we should have not a directive, but a regulation.
We think it is most important to have this proposal acted on in the same way in all the countries of the European Union.
I have to say that I have rarely received as much post as I have in recent weeks on this matter.
What we want is no cages at all, and I therefore hope that the amendments tabled by my honourable friend Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf will be approved tomorrow, because until we stop thinking of animals just as commodities with a sell-by date, supplying us with products as cheaply as possible, we shall not have decent and appropriate methods of animal husbandry.
Mr President, I should firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
It is a subject that causes great concern to many people.
It is extremely difficult to achieve the necessary balance between all the elements involved and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development amendments are just about as good as we can achieve at this moment in time.
We need to ensure that the industry is in a profitable position for these new regulations and others that will be required in the future which are extremely expensive to implement and to carry through.
I urge the Commissioner to stand firmly behind the producers in the European Union because, while we will respond to him and the producers will respond to him, he must defend them against the world when it tries to take over our markets.
The fact is that more and more consumers throughout Europe are calling for a blanket ban on cages.
These poor hens usually die after a year, they last no longer than that, whereas a normal chicken usually lives for four to five years.
Please vote tomorrow in favour of Amendments Nos 52, 62 and 67.
Mr President, it is as well to bear in mind that the current legislation on laying hens goes back to 1988 and should have been revised in 1993.
If the EU wants to speak up in the forthcoming WTO negotiations for including animal welfare in world trade, a domestic ban on battery cages would undeniably strengthen the EU's credibility and hence its negotiating position.
But that is only possible if the market is transparent.
The committee's proposal that labelling should also include egg products is a good step in the direction of better consumer information, and the proposal that the new minimum requirements should also apply to imports from third countries needs to be supported.
There is a fourth aspect which should be decisive in this dossier and which should result - if we are fortunate enough to live in an intelligent economic and social system - in a total and definitive ban on this type of rearing.
This fourth aspect is the health of consumers.
The solution is obvious but it goes against the interests of the large multinationals.
Because more humanely produced eggs cost slightly more, many people continue to buy eggs from battery hens.
That exceptionally low price is only possible thanks to mass production on as small a surface area as possible.
In 1996, the Scientific Veterinary Committee reported on the welfare of laying hens.
Imports from countries whose systems are even less kind to animals must not lead to distortions of competition.
And we must make sure that once they are scrapped in the European Union, they are not then reassembled in countries outside the Union.
The European Parliament ought to prove that it wants no half-hearted compromises in matters of animal welfare, and it should vote for those amendments which seek to have the cage system done away with altogether.
The fact that 93 % of eggs produced for consumption in the EU come from battery cages must not stand in the way of a ban on this shameful form of mass animal torment.
Firstly, a real improvement in the welfare of laying hens on the basis of scientific knowledge.
Secondly, in order to facilitate the switch to methods of rearing which are more appropriate to the basic needs of laying hens, we wish to ensure that the minimum standards result in production costs which are comparable for the various alternative methods of rearing and the improved battery cage system.
Thirdly, a ten-year transitional period is envisaged for existing barns, but new and converted barns will have to meet the new standards straight away.
This does not apply, however, to Amendments Nos 20, 21, 45, 51 and 61.
The Commission's proposal amounts to the same thing as Parliament's Amendment No 13, but this amendment can also be accepted as it makes the text clearer.
The remaining amendments are not acceptable to the Commission for the following reasons: Amendments Nos 2, 37(3) and 36, 42, 59, 69 and 70 are not consistent with Community policy.
As for Amendments Nos 5, 38 and 55, current WTO rules do not allow the Community to use animal welfare provisions as an instrument of trade.
Amendments Nos 4, 54, 57 and 68 are superfluous to this proposal.
Amendments Nos 6, 12, 43, 44, 45, 51, 58, 63, 64 and 65 have no scientific basis, and our proposals have to be constructed on a scientific basis.
Amendment No 8 is linked to Amendments Nos 24 to 28, 30, 32 and 33.
These, together with Amendments Nos 9, 14, 46, 49 and 56, do not constitute improvements of any kind and therefore cannot be accepted.
Amendment No 7 clearly concerns a linguistic problem, because this amendment corresponds exactly to the English text of the Commission's proposal.
Amendments Nos 50, 52, 60, 62, 66 and 67 are premature in the Commission's view, since the matter concerned is still under discussion.
This then makes Amendment No 11 and the related Amendments Nos 31, 34, 35, 39, 40, 41, 47 and 48 perfectly acceptable.
Finally, I agree with the view that a directive is preferable to a regulation, and consequently I cannot accept Amendment No 53.
The debate is closed.
