The Commission asked on 17 November for an urgent priority according to article 97.
The plans to start a more comprehensive initiative in this area began at international level a few years ago.
One year ago in Dublin the foundations were laid for the programme of action, which was discussed in Amsterdam last summer, with 30 different proposals for fighting organized crime.
Today we shall be discussing Parliamentʼs views on this matter.
I have endeavoured to listen to my colleagues and also to understand their points of view.
Today, in fact, our examination relates to the plan and to five joint measures.
Finally, one particularly important change to be noted by the Luxembourg Presidency is that the European Parliament has finally been consulted on these actions in advance.
I should like to remind the Presidency that this relationship will have to be regulated in future as we are forced to run a long way, further than a Parliament can normally do to be able to give a reasoned opinion.
But we have done this to show that we really want to participate and make our contribution.
This problem deserves a specific speech indicating the measures that need to be taken with regard to social prevention and specific intervention.
The right to legality certainly means a right, a citizen's guarantee in respect of the law, the state and the courts, but also and above all a right not to have the territory occupied by crime, the economy distorted by crime, and the risk of citizens having to surrender democracy owing to the spread and pervasiveness of organized crime.
When I say try out, I mean that at the time we introduce these means, I am thinking of participation in organized crime, which, if it becomes common, will be exceptionally important for favouring legal cooperation, I am thinking of the organization of the judicial network which is no more than a collection of judges who, with those connections introduced one or two years ago, must constitute the basis for promoting rapid legal cooperation.
From this point of view, if Europe draws up a plan for combatting organized crime, as it is preparing to do, trying as far as possible to reproduce the conditions guaranteeing a state of law and transferring them to the first pillar, or at all events initiating all the actions which give Parliament a means of control over the Court of Justice (which, unfortunately, has not yet happened), then I believe that, while we are establishing these means, we should point out, with great critical concern as the report does, the need for a system that protects this new principle of legality.
To achieve this objective, I think we have the very important duty of discussing but also supporting the changes that will enable us to fight organized crime and its fundamental attack on the democratic system, not just with words but in a visible, concrete and democratically guaranteed fashion.
I wish to express my appreciation for the sensitivity shown by the Council and the Luxembourg Parliament and my satisfaction with the discussion held by the Committee on Public Liberties.
The relevant Council documents only arrived on 6 November.
Of the two documents examined by Parliament this morning, the first relates to the system of assessing the implementation of measures to combat organized crime.
I consider this document to be highly important politically as it introduces a criterion of consistency in the behaviour of the Member States with regard to the important issue of combatting organized crime and it constitutes in itself perhaps a clearer recognition of why this issue should be regarded as an issue of European interest.
With regard to the second document, a commendable and truly important attempt has been made, even if a little late, to establish a unified definition of the issue of combatting organized crime, including the establishment of penalties for belonging to a criminal organization.
We certainly need to find a balance in the knowledge that we need to guarantee the connection that exists between the right to legality and the right to personal freedom.
The motions put forward are fairly interesting and I think we will have to call upon Parliament to accept the invitation offered by a very large majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties which is seeking to take a step forward towards the European Union and the whole of Europe campaigning against organized crime, to prevent undesirable forms of it infecting the whole of Europe.
With regard to the Mafia in particular, we are all dramatically aware that it is no longer an Italian or Sicilian phenomenon, but has become and is tending to become more and more of a European phenomenon.
When you are in a country other than Italy or in a city other than Palermo, and it is said that the Mafia does not exist, that is like an official invitation to the Mafia to go to that country and that city.
I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for these outstanding reports.
I think that was very important.
Mr President, that is why the Luxembourg Presidency did not wait before submitting four motions for joint action to the Council which are also to be discussed this morning.
As you know, this consultation will be compulsory in the new Amsterdam Treaty and the draft Amsterdam Treaty not only for the instruments from the third pillar, in other words legal cooperation - mainly meaning agreements - but also for the new instruments such as decisions and framework decisions.
All I will say is that we will give them our closest attention and that we will do our best to keep a certain number of proposals which could be integrated in the texts we will be presenting to the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Brussels on 4 and 5 December.
I am optimistic that of the four joint actions which are being discussed this morning at least two can be adopted by the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs when they next meet in Brussels on 4 and 5 December.
By this I am referring to the Falcone programme which is indispensable in complementing the numerous measures planned in the framework of the action plan on organized crime.
The Council envisages that the draft resolution will be adopted at the latest on 4 December in Brussels whilst awaiting the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty which we hope will take place as soon as possible.
Mr President, if one were to ask the citizens of the European Union what concerns them most, the overwhelming majority would reply that the Union should prioritize the fight against internationally organized crime.
The development of the communications sector has brought with it many positive things.
At the same time, however, the Internet and other electronic contact networks for business and monetary transactions provide organized crime with new opportunities.
This is an example of the new problems that we must address.
Unfortunately, it seems that the Member States all too often want to assert their own sovereignty in these matters.
I therefore agree that we should proceed step by step on the basis of a common understanding of how we should handle the new crime problems.
The Cederschiöld report also advocates cooperation between Member State police forces and judicial authorities rather than a harmonization of legislation at EU level.
I am thinking among other things about the need for mutual assistance in judicial matters, including mutual rules for the submission of evidence.
The Bontempi report on a joint action against corruption within the private sector is a good example in this connection.
In the same report, Mr Bontempi complains that the joint action against corruption does not grant any role to the Court.
In the same report it was proposed that the Commission should be given an active role in this work.
The Cederschiöld report also underlines the need for preventive measures, which is also addressed in the plans of action.
The plans do, however, establish a connection with the structural funds as a means of improving the ability to fight crime in the city.
The Orlando report addresses the question of participation in criminal organizations.
The Cederschiöld report also addresses the problem associated with the exchange of information in the same case between courts in different Member States.
The plans of action therefore propose a special cooperation pact against organized crime, and that this pact should be concluded between the candidate states and EU Member States.
I would like to appeal to Parliamentʼs Members to make use of their contacts in their respective countries in order to ensure that these conventions can be ratified as quickly as possible.
I shall start with Mrs Cederschiöld, who had a difficult task to perform, namely to combine very different views, different understandings of terminology, various initiatives in the definition of organized crime, and the definition of the necessity for combatting it.
In recommendation 19, which Mrs Cederschiöld commented on in her report, the High Level Group wants to integrate the cooperation of penal authorities.
And I wonder if in the final count all 15 Member States will not in fact claim priority for their national interests.
I do not think this will take us any further in the suppression of organized crime.
The Commissioner has herself drawn attention to the fact that in our own areas of responsibility the acceptance of fraud and corruption is on the increase, but in my view we have still failed to realize that we must then pay more attention to the qualifications of officials and organizations which are supposed to combat that situation.
All these advantages have led to the fact that organized crime in our society and our state is spreading and will finally undermine our society.
Today, organized crime, a great threat to the lawful state, is a great threat to democracy in many countries; it is attacking the economic and production nerve centres of many countries and attacking many young democracies, by money laundering, by international trafficking in drugs, arms and anything else.
We too want a balance, with the full individual guarantee of rights of defence, such as the direct relationship between criminal fact and accused, something that some are beginning to deny.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the group of experts commissioned by the European Council of Dublin for this purpose has put together the outcome of its thoughts in record time in the form of an action plan against organized crime.
The state of ratification - or should I say nonratification - of the Europol Convention, or the agreements on extradition, for example, are sufficient justification for this pressing call to Member States.
Thirdly, as regards the authority set down in the third pillar, the improvement of parliamentary control, which Parliament is right to insist on, has acquired a new dimension in the course of the current Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
Fourthly, I would also like to express my particular gratitude to Mrs Cederschiöld, Mr Orlando and Mr Bontempi, for successfully compiling our work within a timescale which allows the Council to make use of it in due course.
Mr President, today we are examining the action plan to combat organized crime adopted by the European Council at its meeting in Amsterdam, along with four draft joint actions implementing a number of the recommendations included in that plan.
The social dimension of the action plan is too restricted.
These reports largely deal with particular aspects, sometimes excessively, but do not cover certain other aspects adequately.
In short we should probably redefine the role of Europol, its area of responsibility and its control system more precisely.
We fully support Mr Bontempi's report dealing with the judicial network in Europe.
These technical measures lack political inspiration in our view, and this inspiration is something which may yet be a long time coming.
Mr President, this morning we are debating a series of reports on the fight against organized crime and legal cooperation in Europe.
The state control level seems to us to be the most suitable.
It cannot be denied that, faced with increasingly internationalized crime which operates through organized networks and international crime associations, inter-state cooperation is essential and must be strengthened: we need to ensure its efficiency and guarantee to our citizens respect for the established legal order and security.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in technical terms the action plan and the reports of the European Parliament represent a positive element in combatting organized crime.
I am concerned too about the plight of people who are arrested and held in custody in Member States of which they are not citizens, pending trial, and who are often held for extraordinarily long periods because of purely technical problems relating to translation of documents or differences between the judicial procedures of individual Member States.
Moving on, if I may, to the role of Europol - which is fulfilling a vital role and to which we have to give our support - it is very important that all the Member States should as soon as possible ratify the convention so that we can make progress.
We must also have in place a system for the investigation by an independent police complaints body of any complaints that there may be from citizens of Member States about the activities of Europol.
However, as previous speakers have already said, the freedom envisaged is far more the free movement of goods and services than the free movement of persons.
Consequently, besides welcoming the new articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Treaty on European Union - in other words, the substantial modification of former articles K.1, K.2 and K.3 - which set the goal of the progressive establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, we must address the following issue: after having achieved a great deal in the economic sphere, we are now getting down to the essence of European integration - a subject which is difficult to tackle: the sphere of values.
We are pleased to note that there is recognition of the political importance of the debate on legal cooperation and on putting in place in Europe instruments which permit investigators to establish a direct contact with colleagues from other countries which are faced with the problems associated with organized crime.
On the other hand, the main proposal in the Orlando report on international involvement in combatting organized crime concerns the central role - granted to Member States by the Council - which would have to be attributed to the Commission during the temporary process of evaluation.
Mr President, the fight against organized crime ranks high on the political agenda in Europe today.
We must recognize that the forcing house in which organized crime germinates is the economic, social and political status quo that prevails in our countries.
However, we do not wish to contribute to making the EU into a centrally controlled police state.
Our group obviously cannot vote for this report proposing a highly convenient way of shuffling off the real problem, which is one of drugs and drugs trafficking that today represents 80 % of the organized crime business.
We want to draw your attention to the need to legalize this business as a matter of urgency, to wipe out the 80 % of Mafia income.
When I read this paper I see that commercial interests have completely taken over within the Commission, and security interests take second place.
And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have taken an important step forward with this action plan, although we still have a long way to go in the fight against organized crime.
Mr President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur and say that it is not before time that we had this debate in Parliament; but the more we talk, the less we appear to do on issues like this.
Mr President, organized crime has a great capacity to adapt to the situations to increase its trade.
We always remain extremely critical, but this morning I would like to congratulate our colleagues who have worked together so amicably in such a short time.
Firstly, Mr Bontempi has already talked about it at length, but I would like to draw you attention to it once more, something easily said, but more difficult to do, namely that in everything that we are doing at present to combat crime we have to keep in mind that this must be done in the most responsible way possible in order to ensure that personal protection is guaranteed.
Moreover, before we dream up new ways to fight organized crime, would it not be better to exploit the existing means more effectively first?
The report quite rightly advocates that priority be given to improving cooperation between Member States which have not yet signed existing agreements on repression and convergence of penal procedures, or which do not exploit all the options offered by these agreements because of national sovereignty considerations.
However two previous reports already stressed the need for increased action: these were the Schulz report on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and the Reding report on the fight against terrorism.
Briefly, the principal problem in the fight against crime is by no means that the European Community authority is still in its infancy - and I do not advocate such a communal approach, but merely more effective cooperation between Member States - the problem is a question of mentality and the political will to combat crime.
Only three Union countries have included Community fraud in the criminal code.
As we always make so many graded lists about fraud, we will start by recalling those who have not yet fulfilled their duties from this point of view.
The second issue relates to the fight against crime in the sector of trading in people, or clandestine immigration.
International development and the annual report on fraud make quite clear the need for relevant regulations within the criminal codes of Member States, and for international prosecution procedures.
Mr President, I hope this discussion can be received by public opinion for what it is, beyond the technical, legal or relevant issues.
It is a coordinated response we wish to make to the need for safety and legality demonstrated by our citizens, and it is a common undertaking we are making today, with this discussion, to combat crime so that it cannot benefit from our system of rules and democracy and then place it in crisis.
It seems to me that there is a lack of a more definite harmonization, of a clear definition of organized crime, which makes everything weaker, not so much because we are not managing to define crime but because it is difficult to define the organization.
The balance should be sought and assessed particularly in this Parliament, a balance between the need for an effective fight against crime and the need for this fight not to injure the fundamental rights of citizens.
Mr President, Mrs Colombo Svevo is right and I want to say the same: an honest and balanced answer, a virtuous course that begins this morning, a course of cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
And here I wish to express my appreciation to Minister Fischbach and Commissioner Gradin.
The text drawn up by the Council and the Committee on Civil Liberties does not refer to collaborators and terrorists, because we consider that to be a very complex, controversial issue burdened with so many ambiguities that it cannot be dealt with just in an amendment.
I believe the discussion has been very useful and has offered us conditions for correcting the delays and taking more useful action in the future.
Secondly, there seems little evidence to me that the introduction of new instruments includes regulations other than Italian ones.
I would like to point out that the criminalization of private corruption, which is an important aspect of innovation, is a very important aspect; it does not exist in many regulations, it does not exist in our regulations and so its introduction shows that Europe is working through the best experiences acquired over the years.
We must be aware that this step is in reality a rather cautious one in light of the ambitions which we, the Council and the Member States hold.
And that is why, in the same spirit of generosity and solidarity, all of us must combine the measures, the means and the instruments at our disposal to fight organized crime at European level.
The basic problem relates to the fact that public security issues deeply touch feelings of national sovereignty.
So it remains for us to change, slowly, surely and for good, attitudes in the various Member States so that they decide once and for all in favour of Community action in legal cooperation as well as far more intense, far closer police cooperation.
I think this should be our aim, this should be our objective.
I must say to you that the corpus juris, all the ideas surrounding a 'Community public prosecutor' , surrounding policing actions which should be Community actions, are in fact completely relevant, but to the extent that it will be necessary to overcome the obstacles at national level which again stem from traditions firmly grounded in the mentalities of Member States, we must have the necessary patience and enough of it to advance in the direction our Parliament wishes to take.
Well, I concede that we still have a long way to go on this, but this stems from the fact - and re-reading the draft Amsterdam Treaty you will note this yourselves - that most Member States are not prepared to renounce their own police forces or to hand over some areas of police responsibility to a supranational or Community field of responsibility.
But the objective is there.
Europol was the idea of the German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, and his first idea was to create a European police force.
From now until the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, Europol agents will be able to intervene in a role which complements the actions of the police in the relevant fields of responsibility in the different Member States.
Not at all, and I think that the German government has done well to say that given that we are sticking to operational responsibility for the moment, we do not need to discuss in detail the principle of unities.
But this problem will crop up again as soon as Europol is given executive responsibility for good.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is no use recording that we have done well and made progress, and that the Council and the Parliament are finally prepared to move forward together down the same road, while there are as many legal instruments as there are at Community level, at Council of Europe level, and at the UN level, which have been completely accepted and ratified by the Member States, but whose qualitative evaluation and implementation in the different Member States in accordance with the agreements undertaken is always shelved.
Madam Commissioner, this exercise will be very difficult and highly delicate and it will certainly fall to the Commission and the Council to see if, at a practical level - that of implementation - these countries are ready to join us and enter our Community of law and security.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Gradin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
The Commission has meanwhile done its homework in the form of the Monti Proposals.
It must be possible to extend this network with appreciable benefits for our citizens.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the Luxembourg Presidency for its excellent cooperation.
There was a study done on this by the Commission in 1995.
It is exceptionally unfortunate that according to the Amsterdam Treaty on this subject of cooperation within the civil law the Intergovernmental Conference only allows Parliament a joint right of decision where visa policy is concerned, and then only in five years time.
Considering the poor results achieved by the Council in this field so far, that is difficult to understand.
I am sure the European Parliament could participate in our achieving very much better results.
I will put it in my own way a little more bluntly.
Now let me return to Europol, Mr Fischbach.
So, if you are looking for a priority, Mr Fischbach, I would recommend to the Council that it withdraws the immunity regulation in its current form as quickly as possible.
I ask the Council, therefore - and I say this emphatically on behalf of our group, because we are giving asylum policy a leading position in our work - to prepare, as early as next year, specific ideas about how it will deal with the harmonization of asylum policy, both technically and in content.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a pessimist like my colleague who just spoke, but, on behalf of my group, Union for Europe, I wish to express my keenest satisfaction with this report, which establishes the priorities of cooperation in the justice and home affairs sectors as from January 1998, the fateful day by which the Treaty of Amsterdam will enter into force.
The Council resolution confirms the importance of promoting freedom, safety and justice in the European Union, in accordance with the fundamental principles of law and politics.
It is therefore necessary for every effort to be made in this direction by all the Member States, who are always the main participants, the driving force behind any reform.
I also wish to congratulate the Council Presidency because, for the first time, it has given the European Parliament the opportunity to express its point of view on the content of the Council resolution.
We, as the Group Union for Europe, agree with the Council on the need to include in the list of priorities the fight against terrorism, fraud and organized crime and the importance of taking the necessary measures for Europol to take up its responsbilities in this area as soon as possible.
I also hope that, in accordance with paragraph 8 of the resolution, Council will ensure an improvement in legal cooperation in all member countries.
To conclude, Mr President, I would like to ask both Council and Commission to work in closer contact with the European Parliament so that the three pillars on which the Union is founded can be constructed, in a joint, parallel and speedy manner, but above all along the lines desired by the citizens.
The problem here is that it is completely unclear to what extent the measures taken have been implemented nationally.
Mr President, the Council and the Commission need to draw up a report on the progress of the implementation of Union level decisions into national legislation.
I can state that on a whole series of key points, these proposals, these priorities - not to mention the earlier reports - break with this fundamental principle, for instance the Europol Convention, which entrusts control only to this Parliament (and not to the national parliaments) and to the European Court of Justice - not to the national courts, as require, for example, in the Danish Constitution.
Mr President, I think I already overran my time earlier.
I just wanted to say that of course I am delighted with this excellent report from Mr Nassauer.
Mr President, the basic principle is free movement of persons within the European Union, but many people fear that this will become free movement for criminals and swindlers.
The Commission, the European Parliament and the Court will all be given a stronger role in connection with the third pillar.
In the short term the Commission will complete the work under the Maastricht Treaty.
In this connection I would also like to draw attention to the important cooperative projects that we have initiated through the long-term working programmes, for example, Grotius, which is leading to increased cooperation between judge and prosecution, and thus cooperation within the judicial system; Sherlock, which of course is aimed at cooperation with a view to preventing forged documents; and Oisin, which is aimed at bringing about cooperation between police forces.
We also have the Stop programme, which involves cooperation between authorities in the Member States with a view to combatting the slave trade in women and children, and the Daphne programme, which gives support to voluntary organizations engaged in the fight against sexual exploitation of, and violence against, women and children.
As proposed in the Nassauer report, the Commission will continue to take new initiatives with the aid of the new instruments that we now have at our disposal under the Maastricht Treaty.
In parallel with our ongoing work under the current treaty, we are also preparing ourselves for the day when the new Amsterdam Treaty comes into force.
This has two important consequences.
The Europol Convention will be an important tool in this connection.
The debate is closed.
The second amendment is an addition to article 7 relating to cooperation with the CEECs and Cyprus and reads, "the costs of such participation shall be added to the appropriation for that programme' .
The third amendment, which supplements article 9, relates to the fact that, since it is a five-year programme, it covers two different financial budgets.
Madam President, as I cannot see the Socialist Group coordinator at present, I wish to say, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that I am unable to accept these oral amendments tabled at the last minute.
Thank you, Mr Willockx.
Everyone has understood that these three oral amendments could in a sense be grouped together, in any case on the basis of the principle under which they were taken into consideration.
Also, Amendment Nos 6, 7, 10 and 11 have been cancelled.
For example, Amendment No 21 by my group was altered in a completely wrong way to the extent that it now says the opposite of what we intended.
There are also a number of translation problems in the French version.
I therefore propose deferring this report to the next part-session as we cannot vote on it as it stands today.
Madam President, I believe we expressed our appreciation this morning to the Luxembourg Presidency and the Commission for enabling Parliament to assess such an important wording before the 4 and 5 December part-session.
The Council was kind enough to send us these texts for consultation in advance of the Amsterdam Treaty, but with a very short deadline, which posed a considerable time problem for the numerous translations.
Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Schulz.
Madam President, with regard to Amendment No 12, I wish to point out that after the vote on the amendment the committee experienced a certain amount of confusion, so the Council drew up a wording that seems more correct to me.
It is most gratifying that both Council and Parliament have from the outset been in agreement that a high level of protection should be given to personal data within an area such as the telecommunications sector, where technological development is advancing extremely rapidly.
The Fiscalis programme is therefore a necessary initiative, which means, among other things, that national public officials acquire a thorough knowledge of Community law.
The Fiscalis programme is aimed at creating a solid and sensible basis for future harmonization of VAT and other taxes.
I therefore give the report my full support.
Cederschiöld report(A4-0333/97) We are of the opinion that the report deals with an extremely important area for the future work of the European Union.
In making this statement on our voting, we wish to emphasize our view that in a number of areas, the report contains more far-reaching harmonization requirements than can objectively be regarded as justified in the light of the plans of action for combatting organized crime.
In her draft resolution she identifies the inherent flaws and weaknesses in the current EU approach to tackling organized crime.
We must change these attitudes, achieve greater harmonization of our legal, judicial and policing systems if we are to win the war against organized crime.
So of course I am delighted that on 17 June the European Council of Amsterdam adopted the action plan on combatting organized crime.
This is a step in the right direction.
Furthermore I would like to pay tribute to the efforts of the Council of Europe towards drafting an agreement against organized corruption which is rampant in international markets.
It is regrettable that this report, which deals with organized international crime, does not say a word about Interpol, whose aim is precisely to combat crime at international level.
It can scarcely be reasonable at this juncture to set up a policing organization that is to compete with Interpol.
I can agree to several of the proposals in the report.
I am, however, opposed to centrally determined forms of judicial cooperation, where the main aim is a harmonization of the legislation.
In view of the fact that the report contains several proposals along these lines, I shall be voting against it in the final vote.
Orlando report(A4-0355/97) Madam President, we were unable to approve the report by Mr Orlando on the implementation of international agreements to combat organized crime, because, according to an excellent text by the Council, the Parliament desired systematically to transfer the prerogatives of the Council to the Commission.
The report gives the Commission a much stronger role in the evaluation system.
We see no reason to reinforce the Commissionʼs role in this context.
Mr Orlando has proven his pugnacity in drawing up these different reports, and we can only welcome it.
The European Parliament has got to prove its unstinting determination in the fight against all Mafia practices.
Mafia organizations are growing stronger in countries which already have competent services to combat organized crime.
I hope that it will demonstrate the same concern to implement quickly the means to combat organized crime effectively.
Orlando report(A4-0349/97) If we are serious about tackling organized crime we have to ensure more effective coordination throughout the European Union before we can properly start cooperating with third countries.
Intergovernmentalism and lack of transparency is not the way to convince European citizens of our determination to win the war against organized crime.
Nassauer report(A4-0367/97) Madam President, the Nassauer report on laying down the priorities for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs represents a return to the European Parliament's usual cliché on the free movement of persons which supposedly could not exist in the Union as long as any degree of control remains in place at internal borders.
This idea has caused a great deal of harm already and will cause even more in future if the Amsterdam Treaty is ratified, because article B of the New title 3 A in the Community section states that within five years the Council will have to put a stop to measures which "pursuant to article 7 A aim to guarantee that citizens of the European Union or of a third country will not be subject to any controls when they cross internal borders' .
But in reality this is not the case, for article 7 A never said that free movement of persons implied there would be no controls, and even less that this would also apply to persons from third countries.
Furthermore, the Treaty of Amsterdam, in article B cited above, does not set any pre-conditions for the abolition of controls of persons at internal borders.
A fully operational Europol is critical to ensuring successful cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs.
After the Dutroux scandal in Belgium there was a flurry of activity and there seemed to be a determination to ensure that Europol would be given the necessary powers to discharge its responsibilities.
It hardly needs stating that the Commission and the Council, and most certainly this Parliament, will agree that the United Nations, the Secretary General, and the Security Council all must have our full support in their aim to have Iraq meet the relevant Security Council resolutions.
It is clear that if this conflict with Iraq drags on, it will have serious consequences, not only in the sense of security, but also as regards the enforcement of oil and food resolutions, if I may call them this for the sake of convenience; which in turn would lead to harmful consequences on the humanitarian aid which may be given to the people of Iraq, and would also hamper aid efforts to northern Iraq.
In the current state of affairs I am not able to more positive about in drawing this conclusion, but if we also take note of the statements and announcements made yesterday by the British Foreign Secretary after the consultation between the five permanent members, and of the text which appeared today in Telexpress, then we can hope with some justification that the crisis can be averted.
Mr commissioner, thank you for your report.
Firstly, is it your opinion, Mr Commissioner, that the necessary unified European position in this crisis could have been established quickly enough?
Is the impression correct, which you also may have gained, that the necessary solidarity within the Arabian area itself was not forthcoming because of the Israeli crisis and the opinion of many Arab countries that America had applied too little pressure in the days leading up to the crisis?
There was a cautious resolution which supported the UN policy - I think this would anyhow have been a good back-up - and also an inducement to the Council to start working on a communal position on Iraq.
Saddam must implement Resolution 687 without delay.
Once that has happened, the destitute Iraqi citizens who are being held hostage by Saddam will experience an improvement in their lot.
The international community, Mr President, must act as one.
We cannot but express our deeply-felt relief for such an apparent solution and our thanks to those members of the Security Council of the United Nations who worked against time to restore the UNSCOM role in Iraq and to avoid further bloodshed.
At the same time we cannot accept a return to the status quo ante and endless prolongation of the most cruel and senseless sanctions which, in less than six years, have led to one million dead civilians and to a veritable slaughter of the innocents at the rate of 4, 500 children a month.
However, that is not the reason for not thanking Commissioner van den Broek for being here and for giving us the Commission's version.
It is certainly not up to the Americans to say who should govern Iraq, but it may fall to them and to a European diplomatic mission, finally unified on this question, to create the conditions for a democratic evolution by using a more generous approach in a country where the leaders exploit a collective paranoia which we do nothing but feed.
Mr President, although this is a question which is a matter for the United Nations Security Council, and at European level, the Council and not the Commission, as you are responsible for the implementation of the embargo on Iraq on behalf of the European Union, I would like to ask you, Commissioner, if it is not time to look seriously at the basis for maintaining the embargo, which by all the evidence over the last seven years has not reached the objectives it was set.
That is the most important statement he can make today.
If we want the USA to show a continuing interest in our security problems, we should make it clear once more that we feel ourselves to be in a rather critical position vis a vis solidarity with America.
And in any case it is worth observing that the United States, the American President, and the American Secretary of State also talk openly about it in the sense that they are very worried that Israel's inflexibility does not contribute to the much needed progress in this process.
I agree with those who say that where there is humanitarian need, Saddam Hussein himself is primarily responsible for bringing this on, as providing for sufficient humanitarian resources is also dependent on meeting the Security Council's resolutions; that there is also a resolution of the Security Council which states that $ 2 billion worth of oil may exported so that food and medication can be imported in return for this.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I would first like to say how pleased I am that our resolution today has been supported by six groups in this House.
The United Nations have realized the necessity for establishing such a court, because war crimes and internal armed conflicts do not occur just in these two countries, but in many other countries where it is necessary for this kind of court to operate.
I should like to draw your attention, Commissioner van den Broek, to Figure 3 of our joint resolution, which deals with finance.
This year we have been able with rather less effort to insert ECU 3 million into the budget.
A permanent war crimes tribunal becomes a lodestar for respect for human rights, even in the lifeʼs darkest moments.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the world and of Europe this century is a story of wars and of war crimes, but only partially a story of the prosecution for war crimes.
I do not entirely agree either with the most recent decision that a Croat Minister is not even obliged to give evidence.
All the same I have some questions.
Well, Mr President, I have my doubts about that, because in the absence of the will to genuinely catch those murderers, they are being very selective, and that can never have been the intention.
Finally, Mr President, in the context of war crimes during armed conflict this permanent international criminal court would finally, finally be able to drag Surinam's ex-dictator Bouterse to court.
Mr President, my group will vote partly in favour, partly against.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I am hopeful that the diplomatic conferences which are to take place next year, will open the way for a permanent criminal court.
The establishment of a permanent court will offer the continuity and expertise which everyone needs in international criminal law.
Mr President, as has already been said, next year will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but also of the Genocide Convention; it will also have been fifty years since the United Nations' International Law Commission was asked in the United Nations General Assembly to come up with a draft, to prepare a draft statute for the creation of an international court for criminal cases.
So we are talking about an initiative that is almost fifty years old, and which over the years has been supported by the Member States of the European Union with a great deal of effort.
But just as the Commission at the time wholeheartedly supported the establishment of the tribunals for Rwanda and Yugoslavia, now we too support wholeheartedly all action which might lead to the realization of this larger international court.
This is a long-standing ambition of a great many countries, and for that matter, of a large number of nongovernmental organizations which have contributed to keeping interest alive on this issue.
To conclude, Mr President, I think that the basic motivation behind our support for the establishment of an international court is in fact the same as the motivation behind our support for the creation of ad-hoc tribunals.
Mr President, as far as the financing of the tribunal itself is concerned, I would like to remind you that the Commission contributed from European funds not only to the establishment, but also to the functioning of the ad-hoc tribunals, and I believe that finances should not be a barrier to shelter behind when one wants to make progress in the establishment of this extremely important international institute of law.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, some days ago the ACP-EU Joint Assembly sat in Lomé, Togo.
If Togo wishes, as we do, cooperation to recommence, the elections in 1998 must be completely transparent.
Finally, the government must accept the presence at the elections of international observers and human rights representatives.
Our business rules for cooperation with Togo are in article 5 of the Lomé Convention.
The report by the two European experts on preparations for elections has now been presented.
Mr President, I would like to express my surprise, both personally and on behalf of my group, that the situation in Togo appears among the urgent debates.
Prior to the meeting of the Joint Assembly at Lomé, our Parliament sent a mission to Togo which found that the minimal democratic conditions for holding this assembly had been met.
In this light, it seems to me that the inclusion of this question represents a double insult both to our Togolese hosts and to the Joint Assembly which appears to be disowned here, at a time when we have many other much more pressing urgent matters to deal with.
Madam President, the meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Lomé a few weeks ago enabled many of us to make contact with the political reality of Togo.
The next few months will be of fundamental importance in determining whether Togo can finally set out on the road to real democracy.
The second is that such a process should be real and not just a front.
The fact that President Eyadema has been in power for thirty years now and seems intent on not calling his own role into discussion is clearly an obstacle to the full implementation of real democracy in the country.
Madam President, I am speaking for Lord Plumb, who feels very strongly about this resolution.
Togo is emerging from a difficult political and economic situation.
Madam President, on 20 March in Brussels, I indicated on behalf of the Group Union for Europe that the particular features of the Lomé Convention were to be found largely in the contractual framework which it offers to the partnership and that this must be revitalized within the domain of political dialogue to ensure that our action is more effective.
In fact, I wanted to specify that for Europe the ACP group is not currently a real partner in the political dialogue, and that this dialogue lacks content and visibility.
Faced with the growing concern of the ACP countries regarding the place we accord them in our policy of cooperation with less advanced countries, you will agree that this political coup de force on Togo is not likely to re-instil our partners' confidence, but will create a deep unease about the consideration we have for populations to which we owe a historical debt.
The Group Union for Europe has always held that development aid is dependent on respect for human rights and democracy, but regrets that certain political groups demand that our Parliament questions the result of a vote to which we contributed.
Madam President, under these conditions my group will not support this behaviour and will make it known to all of our ACP partners.
The Togolese Government is aware of this, and knows that article 5 of the Lomé Agreement forms a part of the postponement policy from Europe, and yet they still made it clear they did not want to carry it out.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to explain why my group has not signed this resolution about Togo.
It was only a few weeks ago that a resolution with largely the same content was defeated and rejected by a unanimous ACP delegation in Lomé, Togo.
I was present in Lomé and know that there were several resolutions that were voted down, including a resolution about Nigeria, where one could certainly say that the situation with regard to human rights and democratic principles is much more serious than it is in Togo.
Why do we need to go back over the situation in Togo scarcely three weeks after our Parliament reached a decision on the issue, firstly in the framework of the investigative mission, and then in the framework of the Joint Assembly of European Union-ACP countries?
Mr President, the theory of control, which spread in Asia in the 60s, is repeating itself in central Africa.
After Rwanda, Burundi, Zaire and Congo, Togo is still today in a state of crisis.
Madam President, fair and free elections in Togo are an important gauge for the future of this country.
The Commission has expressed its willingness to offer technical and financial aid for the preparation and follow-up of these elections in Togo.
And if they make it clear that all political forces are given the opportunity to participate in this process and subject to the conditions which guarantees free access to the media, internal free movement and security.
The election committee must supervise and exercise control on all activities related to the election process, and must have powers over security, in particular vis a vis the safety of the candidates, as well as exercising control on access to the media.
The Togolese Government has made a verbal promise verbally to appoint the members of the election committee and to start the election process before the end of November, in other words before the end of this month.
The Commission recommended the government to present the report to the Togolese National Assembly.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the joint debate on the following resolutions: (B4-0954/97) by Mrs Pailler and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on children's rights; -(B4-0968/97) by Mr Pasty and others, on behalf of the Group Union for Europe on the protection of children's rights; -(B4-0977/97) by Mr Monfils, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on the protection of children and their rights; -(B4-0980/97) by Mrs Frutos Gama and Mrs García Arias, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on children's rights; -(B4-0990/97) by Mrs Leperre-Verrier, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, on the respect of children's rights; -(B4-0947/97) by Mr Habsburg-Lothringen and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the economic threats to the press in Slovakia; -(B4-0976/97) by Mr Bertens and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on the proposal to increase taxes on publications in Slovakia; -(B4-0992/97) by Mrs Schroedter and Mrs van Dijk, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on the increase in VAT on publications in Slovakia; -(B4-0966/97) by Mr Telkämper, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on the agrarian reform in the Philippines; -(B4-0982/97) by Mrs d'Ancona, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the importance of continuing the agrarian reform in the Philippines; -(B4-0936/97) by Mr Bertens, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on detentions without trial in Malaysia; -(B4-0967/97) by Mr Telkämper, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on detentions without trial in Malaysia; -(B4-0962/97) by Mr Telkämper, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on the situation in the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT); -(B4-0989/97) by Mr Dupuis, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, on the situation in the Chittagong Hill Tracts; -(B4-0950/97) by Mr Manisco and others, on the detention of Silvia Baraldini in the United States.
Two hundred and fifty million children are at work, thousands of children exploited, terrorized by war, if not dragooned, and we must also add the children in the Western world who suffer terrible abuse.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, on behalf of my group may I express my pleasure in the fact that there has been such a general and clear consensus in this House about the role and rights of children.
We have just received a communique about our resolution concerning the Slovak Government's measures against the Slovak press.
Journalists in the country are very anxious.
The formal decision in parliament has not changed things.
I believe this is information which, as I understand it, comes from European sources and suggests to us that we should be sending a positive response as a result of this action by Slovakia.
Agrarian reform in the Philippines Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see what is taking place out in the Philippines.
There is a Ministry of Land Reform - the European Union has participated since 1986 in this programme to the tune of tens of millions - yet the local Minister has nothing better to do than to redistribute back to large landowners land already given to the farmers.
The farmers were successful in using a hunger strike to get President Ramos to return the land to them on this occasion.
Unfortunately, however, there have been serious setbacks to its implementation and the recent strike by 20 farmers in Manilla over the return of land to a large landowner illustrates this.
This resolution is an appeal to President Ramos and his government fully to maintain the policy of land reform against all opposition and to ensure also that these disappearances are fully investigated.
This resolution further calls on the President and his government to take action on other issues.
The European Parliament has been deeply concerned to support democratic development in the Philippines over the years and we very much hope that our resolution today will be taken very seriously.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
This is the umpteenth example of lack of respect for basic human rights in Malaysia.
The internal security law is a law which the Malaysian government clearly uses against every form of political opposition.
Chittagong Hill Tracts Madam President, the problem of the Chittagong Hill Tracts is not well known, however it concerns a large region which is relatively well populated; this is a region which, we could say, has been somewhat abandoned by the world, and in which for long years, perhaps thirty or forty, in fact since the partition of India after the war, a problem has existed which has never been confronted with the desired strength and will.
These people have their own specific identity and traditions, and in resolving this issue, the government could perhaps devote itself more resolutely to other problems which affect its large country.
The present government of Bangladesh, the Awami League Government, has, to its great credit, sought to achieve a peace agreement and the seventh round of the talks on this is set for 26 November.
I appeal to this House to support the resolution and for the European Union and the Commission to do everything possible to monitor and to assist in the process.
In 1977 there were about 100, 000, and today the number already runs into seven figures.
The purpose of this resolution - the third in three years - is to ask our American friends to abide by the terms of an international treaty - the Strasbourg Convention on transfer of foreign detainees to their country of origin - a treaty that has been signed and ratified by Italy and the United States.
Madam President, Silvia Baraldini's case has now become a symbol in the fight for the assertion, at international level, of the most elementary principles of justice and freedom and respect for human rights.
With every day that passes, Silvia Baraldini's life is in greater danger owing to an absurd verdict and an absurdly long sentence and owing to terrible conditions of imprisonment and psychological pressure.
The European Parliament is still drawing up the resolution that we are preparing to vote on the same request made in the past, a very simple request: that the Strasbourg Convention at least be applied so that Silvia Baraldini can return, even in prison, to her own country.
We hope that the US political and judicial authorities respond to a request for justice that is receiving unanimous consent in Europe.
It is to be hoped that this time our position will have greater success than in the past.
At the level of the Member States, the Council of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs had as far back as 24 February 1994 given its approval to a joint action to fight human trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children.
Furthermore, the Commission is managing the so-called Stop programme, the joint action by the Ministers of Justice and Homel Affairs from 1996, for which over five years, ECU 6.5 million was made available to support people who are professionally responsible for, amongst other things, the fight against human trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children.
In its external policy, the European Commission will make an active contribution towards the more general problem of child labour.
Finally, the external policy of the European Union includes programmes for the protection of human rights; in this context resources will also be made available to fight the sexual exploitation of children.
I would like to emphasize first of all, that this case is undoubtedly regrettable, but that it is being investigated by the Belgian judicial authorities, and that a judicial inquiry was set up by the Public Prosecutor in Brussels in the middle of June this year, and the inquiry is still taking place.
Secondly I can report that on 14 November the Public Prosecutor made a statement to the press, in which he said that cooperation with the European Union on this inquiry is progressing well, and in which he pointed to the need for discretion whilst the inquiry is still being conducted, and that such discretion and reticence had been expressly sought by the parents of the children in question.
Madam President, on the issue of the press in Slovakia different reports are clearly spreading at present concerning the fate of the Slovakian government's proposal to increase VAT on newspapers, amongst other things, from the low rate of 6 % to 23 %.
As far as this is concerned, Bratislava can count on our efforts and support.
This implies at the same time that a new agreement of this kind should contain such a human rights clause.
And I should add that until now we have not encountered any resistance from Malaysia when discussing these issues, nor when it concerned sensitive human rights issues.
Then there is the issue of Chittagong Hill Tracts in Bangladesh, Mr President.
My apologies, Madam President, but having read the resolution I had understood that it was directed primarily at President Ramos and not at the European Commission in its request for support.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following resolution motions: (B4-0932/97) by Mrs Frutos Gama and Mrs García Arias, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the flood disaster in the Autonomous Community of Extremadura autonomous region; -(B4-0957/97) by Mr Puerta and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on the serious effects of the storm in Spain; -(B4-0991/97) by Mr Novo Belenguer and Mr González Triviño, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, on the flooding in Badajoz; -(B4-0933/97) by Mr Miranda and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on the serious effects of the storm in the Azores; -(B4-0981/97) by Mr Marinho and Mr Correia, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the storms in the Azores; -(B4-0939/97) by Mr Miranda and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left on the serious consequences of the storm in Portugal; -(B4-0969/97) by Mr Azzolini and others, on behalf of the Group Union for Europe, on the storms in Portugal; -(B4-0983/97) by Mr Marinho and others, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the storms and floods in southern Portugal; -(B4-0956/97) by Mr Capucho and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the recent floods in the regions of Extremadura (Spain), Alentejo (Portugal) and the Azores.
Spain Madam President, once again, devastation caused by floods is the subject of a motion for a resolution in Parliament's topical and urgent debate.
Storms in Spain and Portugal have again left a trail of deaths, injuries and missing persons in their wake.
At present, I do not wish to apportion blame, which in any case must be established by the Spanish authorities, but to use this opportunity, as both a Member of the European Parliament and a citizen of Melilla, to call on the European Commission to provide urgent aid for the families of the victims, for those who have totally or partially lost their homes or businesses, and - in short - for all those who in one form or another have suffered material losses.
Disasters like the flooding in Estremadura and the flood in Melilla could undoubtedly be avoided if the Member States' authorities and the Commission put more effort into fulfilling one of their most important duties: guaranteeing the safety of all citizens.
The Azores Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since our request at the partsession in Brussels on 4 November that Parliament send a message of sympathy to the people of Ribeira Quente, and our subsequent submission to the President of this House of an urgent draft resolution to take measures to alleviate the effects of the storms which have devastated the Azores; since that date, huge mainland areas of my country - the Alentejo, the Algarve, metropolitan Lisbon, Setubal and the Tagus Valley - have also been laid waste by devastating storms.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the storms have left 41 people dead or unaccounted for in Portugal, apart from many injured.
We are today applying to the Commission for financial support in addition to the existing instruments, with the object of mitigating the effects of the disaster and providing support to the people caught up in these human dramas.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, once again, and within a relatively short space of time, the autonomous region of the Azores has been lashed by hurricane-force winds and torrential rain, which struck the region at dawn on 31 October, causing particular devastation in the parish of Ribeira Quente, in the district of Povoação.
I regret to say that, apart from massive material damage, which according to our information represents a cost of over five billion escudos, we have to mourn 29 dead.
Solidarity on the part of the Commission will naturally strengthen the sense of being European and will make people feel there are other Europeans who stand with them in times of difficulty.
The question here is whether, in the light of the efforts expended by the Fire Brigade, Autonomous Authorities, municipal councils, police and military authorities in their response to the disaster, and prompt action by the Governments of the Republic and the Region, the Commission can make no better response than a restricted and academic view of the Community rules.
Madam President, would you allow me to return to the previous topic on the Philippines, to tell Mr Kreissl-Dörfler that the Commission wants to have another look at the Philippine government's programme on agrarian reform, and also at the contribution for this at the next meeting between Union officials and Philippine experts which is to take place on 9 and 10 December.
Madam President, as regards emergency aid for European citizens who have become victims of such disasters, the Commission would like to point out that no credits have been included in the budget for direct emergency aid measures within the European Union.
This is particularly important as, considering of the section EAGGF-orientation of the so-called Community framework for Portugal, no more credits are available for a possible augmentation of the agricultural measures of the operational programme for the areas hit by the storms.
With regard to the Azores, the Commission would like to point out that after the destruction in this area in December last year and January this year, it increased the operational programme for the Azores in July this year by ECU 26 million to offer a contribution to the repair of the damaged infrastructure.
With regard to Interreg II-C, the Commission would like to point out that this Community initiative is primarily aimed at controlling drought.
Madam President, echoing what my colleague, Mr Hernández Mollar, just said, I should also like to hear what the Commissioner has to say about Melilla, which has also recently been the victim of a disaster that has hit the headlines throughout the media.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m., which is in two minutes.
Votes Mr President, the Commission's action plan for the single market, backed by the von Wogau report, presents an extreme vision of an internal market with largely unified laws and taxation, without any internal borders, and a single currency, in other words a market in which the independence of nations has largely disappeared.
The Amsterdam Council on 16 and 17 June welcomed this action plan.
Yet this position is surprising when we know that the action plan includes measures as radical as the installation within five years from now of a new system of VAT, based on the country of origin principle.
Furthermore, we definitely cannot back the proposal made in point 12 of the report.
The internal market should have come into effect fully on 1 January 1993.
This I cannot accept, and I have therefore voted no to the report.
The report is in accordance with the thrust of the Commissionʼs report.
This is in accordance with the tax reform that the Danish government was able to introduce in 1993, which subsequently created more jobs.
The trans-European network is cited in the report as an important element in the creation of an efficient infrastructure in the EC.
The report acknowledged these problems, but nevertheless invites the Commission to reduce the time-frame for implementation as much as possible.
Major effort and the will to find a common solution are necessary in order to fulfill the ambitious aims of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which provides in the medium term for the so-called communalization of the subjects involved.
This common measure which lies before us can be viewed, therefore, as a sign that the Council and Commission are prepared to undertake further efforts in this direction.
It has based its views on the relevant Maastricht Treaty decisions concerning the European Union, but has always born the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in mind.
It should also be possible for a list of priorities to be circulated, so that its items can be included in the one year plan.
The Odysseus programme sets new standards of cooperation between Member States regarding asylum, immigration and exterior border trespass.
The laws and procedures continue to be very varied.
They will not just become better informed by means of the projects sponsored by Odysseus, but will also learn how other Member States solve certain problems.
The regulations in Member States for data protection must be safeguarded in the practical application of the programme.
Odysseus is a programme that can play apart in allowing Europe to live up to these responsibilities.
It would be better, in my view, to refer to legal or administrative measures, and leave talk of "combatting' for those members of criminal organizations who use and abuse human beings, charging them money to transport them to our borders and advising them to destroy their identity documents in order to put themselves in an illegal situation and thereby prevent or hinder their expulsion from Community territory.
It is therefore highly important to train officials in this field.
I therefore believe that the proposed exchange of experience between officials, which have the difficult job of working in a field in which it is necessary to know how to combine humanitarian considerations with the application of the frigid regulations governing the different aspects of immigration, is very important.
And I shall not conclude, Mr President, without underlining the responsibilities of third countries that a share a border with the Union, which must abide by the agreements on this subject that they have signed with the Member States.
Mr President, first of all I would like to make it clear that our group will support this proposal.
But we do not always need to have them in detail in every single programme, as is currently the case, in order actually to comply with the Commissionʼs catchphrase less but better .
Mr President, the Odysseus programme aims to promote unequivocal implementation of the European asylum and immigration policy by training and better cooperation between national public services.
My fellow group member Claudia Roth visited three Polish detention centres last year, and spoke to 122 detainees refugees some of whom had been returned by Germany.
The Polish document which the others had signed, was not as they thought, an application for asylum.
And we think of this country as a safe third country.
If Odysseus will contribute to improved knowledge of the refugee treaty in Poland, I will be in favour of it.
But something tells me that this is not the principal aim of Odysseus.
Mr President, some surprises first of all.
Firstly, in a text which deals with border crossing - external borders are understood, because in this situation internal borders should already have completely disappeared - the word Schengen is never mentioned.
We should recognize that what is bothering us is not directly linked with this agreement, but the agreement is however the point of reference at the moment in Europe, especially as regards the movement of people.
The second element which worries me and annoys me even more is the fact that in the great freedom of movement for capital, goods and individuals, it is human beings who seem to be paying most dearly.
This is true for the Member States and may be even more so for those now seeking entry, whose administrations for decades have used the vast majority of their time mainly to prevent their citizens from moving.
This is the very beginning of a battle which we will have to lead in our own countries.
Cooperation in these areas between Member States has become necessary since the single market without internal borders has come into being.
In addition it is desirable for people working in this field to have a better understanding of each other's and the European Union's regulations.
By stimulating training and exchanges of this kind through this programme, the Union is investing sensibly in its future.
As far as the future is concerned: I am very pleased that the aspiring members of Union will also be involved in this programme.
At the same time the European Parliament restricts the autonomy of the Commission with Amendment Nos 15 and 17.
Finally, I would like to say that I think it is rather indelicate that the European Parliament in Amendment No 9 on article 1 is already referring to the decrees from the Treaty of Amsterdam, and is asking the Council to take these into consideration, whilst this treaty has not even been ratified by the various national parliaments in the Member States.
The Amsterdam treaty provided for this over a five year period.
Since Italy became a full Schengen Member, and the borders between Austria, Italy, and Germany were thrown open, we have been aware that well organized gangs of human smugglers - this happened only yesterday - land ships on the Italian coast - yesterday it seems to have been with 800 Kurds on board whose objective was not Italy, but other European Union states.
Mrs Zimmermann made mention of this in her report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report talks first about amalgamating the Odysseus and Sherlock programmes.
I think, however, that Mrs Zimmermann has pointed out the right path, not just in her speech, but in her excellent report.
Madam President, the multi annual Odysseus programme is aimed primarily at improving practical cooperation between those who are engaged in border control, asylum and immigration policy in our Member States.
The existing Sherlock programme concerned with false or falsified documents will therefore be incorporated in its entirety in the Odysseus programme.
This is not only the case for the fifteen Member States between themselves, but also for the new European democracies.
Odysseus will run for five years and has a budget of ECU 14 million, which includes the five million already set aside for the Sherlock programme.
The Luxembourg Presidency has submitted the Odysseus programme to the European Parliament for consultation.
As far as request 12 is concerned, I fully agree that a phrase should be added to article 7 of the proposal which explicitly mentions frontier-running.
The Commission also agrees that article 9 has to be worked out further to show that is it our aim to improve knowledge of the institutional, judicial and administrative system of our Member States.
I am, for that matter, prepared to bring up this issue in the Council of Ministers.
To conclude I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in particular the rapporteur for the excellent work they have done.
Thank you very much, Commissioner van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the social fund legislation does not expire until 1991, preparations for the new regulations are already running at full speed.
If we want the Commission to know at the outset of their deliberations what this House expects from a new regulation, then we must say so now, and not only in December or January.
Fourthly, we want the social fund to pose a completely new challenge.
It should do more for the unemployed and those threatened by unemployment who are 45 years of age and older.
Thus, unused moneys will first be allocated to other regions within the same Member State, but then to other Member States.
We propose initially to place 5 % of the Social fund into reserves.
The past has really taught us that Member States require one year to adjust their planning to new support criteria.
Madam President, Karin Jöns has done this House a great service.
One of the problems in many of the debates in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs concerns the management and administration of the Fund.
The social fund is investment in people.
For example, in 1992 32 % of the Union's population were over 45; by 1996 that had risen to 36 % and by 2015 it will be over 50 %.
The former Commissioner Millan was very anxious to do something about this and started an investigation into the regional fund and other funds but it was dropped.
Firstly, I would like to state and confirm that, for us too, this strategic role exists for the European social fund, a role that holds and will continue to hold respect for the new objectives laid down by the Treaty of Amsterdam, respect also for the forthcoming Conference on Employment, and respect above all for the drama of unemployment.
What the rapporteur is saying is this: the future lies in the changes, and these changes are those required by the economic, social and employment situation, but also in the management of the Fund itself which should be simplified and stricter.
I believe that paragraph 10 of her report answers this objective and assumes responsibility for these new aspects.
Madam President, maintaining the European social fund is of extreme importance for the social face of the European Union.
I mention these examples, as they are the ones I am most familiar with, but the same happens in the United Kingdom, Germany, and I should think it also occurs in France.
I can say on behalf of the Commission that the Commission largely agrees with the opinions of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment on the fund, and we expect to have a constructive dialogue within Parliament as the reform of the structural funds progresses.
The European social fund has been working for about 40 years towards a healthy, modern labour market in Europe, and generally speaking I would like to highlight the three main functions of the fund.
Points which are emphasized in the draft resolution.
It is beyond doubt that the fund will have to engage in these aims in the future, but within a different context.
In Agenda 2000 the new challenges it will be confronted with are laid out, and I do not want go into that today.
Firstly, there is our mutual recognition that there is an essential role is for guaranteeing vitality and fairness in our labour market, or in other words, promoting both economic and social cohesion.
Then a second point of communality.
The European social fund is the most important form of support the European Union extends to the labour market policy of the Member States.
Integrated regional approaches are necessary but that does not mean that the European social fund should be separated from its most important task: supporting the reform of labour market measures and practices in accordance with European employment strategy, and in accordance with yearly guidelines for employment.
Mechanisms which will guarantee this horizontal role in the next programming period, will form an essential part of the progress under which the reforms will be arranged.
A third common point is our mutual assessment that a strong, innovative and transnational component of our activities should be maintained, in particular via the new generation of Community initiatives.
And then secondly, introducing a partnership system with the Member States which brings with it the advantages of subsidiarity and democracy on a national, regional and European level, but also via the European partnership lead to a distinct extra value.
In our opinion the aspects of the new partnership must be as follows.
And secondly, a new definition of management and financial responsibilities, whereby the Commission will concentrate on cooperation with the Member States towards the strategic aims and to concur with them in an agreement which binds both parties.
As I said, there are a few small detailed points on which the Commission would be delighted to exchange ideas once we have entered the phase during which our detailed proposals will be prepared.
Thank you very much Commissioner van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
