I asked that, pursuant to Article 3 of this Annex, the amendments that had been tabled be forwarded to the Committee on Budgetary Control so that it could give its opinion as required by this Article.
I shall look into what is happening in this case.
Mr President, we discussed this matter at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mrs Theato, you yourself explained that the Committee on Budgetary Control is not in breach of the Rules of Procedure by choosing to present its report in this way.
The rapporteur will deliver his opinion on each amendment in the House, as was decided by his committee.
Mr President, I was also present yesterday but my name does not appear on the attendance register.
On behalf of my group - and I am sure that I speak for many here - I would like a formal protest to be made to the Argentine authorities regarding this matter.
Thank you, Mr Puerta.
Mrs Hebé de Bonafini will be with us today.
I should particularly like to thank publicly the European Union representative in Buenos Aires for such swift and effective action, which enabled this lady to obtain a ticket and travel here, and I should also like to thank the Argentine authorities for acting so promptly on my request.
It is our habit in this House to condemn all acts of terror or violence committed by groups or by individuals.
We have always given strong support to animal protection and consumer protection in this House.
I believe that this declaration could obtain enough signatures... (The President cut the speaker off) Mrs Graenitz, that is not a point of order, and the House cannot become a forum for announcements by each and every Member.
Foie gras is a national product of many countries.
After Commissioner de Silguy commented on our amendments, I wished to state my position.
I was a member of a normal parliament for 25 years and I cannot understand why we cannot have normal discussions here, particularly when it involves a second reading where we have experienced problems with the Council over the common position.
I shall take note of that and check with the President of the sitting in question what the problem was, and you will receive an explanation in due course.
One moment, Mr Casini.
The invitation was sent but I shall check again.
But I shall check this information and will let you know immediately if it is correct.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to have a second opportunity, in the space of a few weeks, to discuss the developments in our Union with you here in the European Parliament.
Let me thank you at the outset for the good cooperation between the Austrian Presidency and the European Parliament, which has made it possible to deal with many subjects, such as the fifth framework programme of research and development, the legal basis for the NGOs' special programmes and the joint efforts in relation to the 1999 budget.
When I was with you here a few weeks ago, just before the meeting of the Heads of State and Government in Pörtschach, I perceived a certain anxiety on the part of some of the Members who took part in the discussions, anxiety that the integration process might be coming to a standstill, anxiety about certain statements that reflected trends towards renationalisation and so on.
We took that informal meeting of the Heads of State and Government in Pörtschach as an opportunity to discuss the future of Europe, and we agreed that the best way to help promote the European idea was by focusing our future policy on creating European added value in policy areas that are of central concern to our people, such as labour, employment, internal security and the quality of life.
I believe that what was special about this Vienna summit was that it took place just before an event that can rightly be described as historic, namely the introduction of the common currency.
In future the substance of our policies, but also the way in which we resolve problems together, will not just be a subject of political analysis and critical commentary but will also be looked at by the financial markets.
Let me briefly go into a little more detail, for example on Agenda 2000, a subject that concerns us all.
It was a central area of work for the Austrian Presidency.
They are the overall volume of expenditure and its distribution under the various headings, and the question of the distribution of the burden between the individual Member States, which was raised by some Member States and also in the Commission's report on own resources.
I believe that on the basis of this document, of the key political elements and of the fact that everyone now recognises that the proposals for solutions are on the table, it will prove possible, through serious and constructive negotiations over the next three months, to conclude this reform package of Agenda 2000 by March next year under the German Presidency, as we confirmed again in Vienna.
The Commission submitted an outstanding report which very clearly highlighted and welcomed the progress made in the individual Member States, but also openly described the areas in which the reform process sometimes slowed down a little in some states.
In two days' time, at the USA-EU summit, I will have an opportunity to address this matter of the representation of the euro in the G7.
But what I consider at least equally important is that we now have the first outlines of a European position on the reform of the world financial system, the reform of the International Monetary Fund.
Here we are working towards a European position that reflects Europe's strength, and this question will have to be included in the international discussions on financial market reform.
The fourth point is Europe's political role in the world, the question of the foreign and security policy.
Added to that is the acceptance that a politically strong Europe must also be in a position to resolve regional crises by undertaking Petersberg-type missions, and to do so in a way that enables all 15 Member States of the European Union to participate in resolving them, in close conjunction with their Atlantic partners.
Europol has become operational and active during the Austrian Presidency.
We now have this action plan for the common area of freedom, security and justice.
Here we managed both to take practical measures and to define political orientations, to call for this topic to be given priority next year and to make provision even at this stage for a special summit to be convened on the subject in Tampere under the Finnish Presidency.
On environmental policy, we took clear decisions in Vienna to reflect our conviction that environmental policy is a horizontal, a mainstreaming policy, that it is a policy which should not just be pursued in the Committee on the Environment but must also be integrated into all other policy areas.
When we now look at the results we have achieved during the Austrian Presidency, building on the good work achieved in Luxembourg and continued by our British friends, we see very clearly that we need national employment policies, but also that we can and want to learn from one another, that we are all committed to achieving the additional, verifiable objectives decided upon in Vienna and, over and above this, that we firmly believe that employment is a European added value.
Those are some of the important signals that were sent out by the Vienna summit, and I am very glad that it proved possible to strengthen the guidelines for employment policy in relation to the questions of older workers, of equal opportunities for women on the labour market and of the entrepreneurial spirit.
We also had a very good meeting with President Santer, a kind of mini-summit on the social dialogue.
We now have an agreement to the effect that, for the first time, small and medium-sized enterprises will also work together with UNICE and secondly - something I consider most significant - we have an agreement between the social partners at European level whereby they undertake to draw up a practical list of subjects, to say what subjects they want to work on at European level within their area of responsibility, what solutions they are seeking; it is important to ensure that matters are not always dealt with by politics in cases where it would be preferable to seek a solution through discussions at European level between employers and workers.
I believe the top priority of the first presidency of one of the youngest Member States was to clearly show the people of Europe that it makes sense to work together in Europe, that there is a European added value if we jointly give top priority to European employment policy, that it makes sense to try to improve European security, to cooperate more closely on achieving internal security, and that it is important to work together to strengthen Europe's political role in the world.
I hope that will also be reflected by large-scale participation in the European Parliament elections in June.
In that sense, I would express my warm thanks for the good cooperation on the part of the Commission, the Council and especially, Mr President, the European Parliament during this first Austrian Presidency.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Vienna European Council concluded the first presidency of the Union to be held by one of the countries that joined in 1995, and I applaud the work carried out by the Austrian Presidency.
These six months will surely be remembered in the history of the construction of Europe as the Pörtschach six months - and quite rightly so, I believe.
In fact, contrary to all that the established analysts predicted, the Pörtschach meeting of Heads of State or Government was an opportunity for frank and constructive discussion on the future of the Union.
But the Pörtschach meeting must not mask the progress made on the other major aspects of Community integration.
The Vienna European Council, for its part, has given concrete expression to the spirit of Pörtschach in a new strategy: the Vienna Strategy for Europe.
The European Council held debates on employment, on growth and on economic stability.
There is now widespread agreement between the Heads of State or Government on the choices to be made in the fight for employment and on the clear need for a common European framework.
The need to support growth, employment and competitiveness has also led the European Council to look carefully at investment issues.
A number of conclusions have been reached on this issue, through the Commission's constant work in this respect.
From amongst these conclusions, I should like to highlight the role of the European Investment Bank, the importance of developing a pan-European risk capital market, the role of investment in human resources and the need to continue with our strategy for completing and extending the internal market.
The European Council has noted the report on the coordination of economic policies.
We also had a constructive discussion on fiscal policy, on the basis of the Council's report.
Mr President, the second issue covered in the Council discussions was, of course, Agenda 2000.
It is true to say that the Council conclusions on Agenda 2000 are modest.
From this point of view, we can applaud the fact that, for the first time, this issue has been addressed in a sensible manner.
The Commission is fully playing its dual role.
Today, as the European Council acknowledged, the major determining factors for this process have been accepted by all partners, by both the European Union and the applicant countries.
The second will be in Helsinki, at the end of 1999.
Mr President, I should like to conclude this presentation of the conclusions of the Vienna European Council by emphasising the detailed nature of the Vienna Strategy for Europe.
The first is to promote employment, economic growth and stability, as I have already mentioned.
The second is to improve security and the quality of life.
And the fourth and final aspect is to promote stability and prosperity throughout Europe and the world.
For each of these main aspects, the European Council has set itself objectives and laid down deadlines.
I hope it is because you are embarrassed that you wasted so much time on it, but Parliament should be made aware of what you spent your time on in Vienna.
That is not exactly a point of order, but in any case the President-in- Office of the Council is still here and he can respond to the questions that Chancellor Klima has not dealt with.
Let me begin, like Viktor Klima, by giving warm thanks for the excellent cooperation with the European Commission and Parliament.
We have few historic moments to celebrate, but we had a great many practical and difficult tasks to accomplish.
Perhaps a few words now on the euro, because in retrospect I am sure the history of the European Union will be divided into the period before 1 January 1999 and the period after 1 January 1999.
During this year of the UK and Austrian Presidencies, the European social market economy model has created more jobs than the Americans.
Thanks to our efforts, today we have just over 1.5 million more jobs than a year ago, at the end of 1997.
But because of the euro, Europe must make its voice heard in the world in a more concrete and effective manner.
I have personally visited something like 35 or 40 countries.
For the first time the EU has a special envoy, Wolfgang Petritsch, who represents the voice and face of Europe in the region and has done a very great deal together with the Commission and the Member States to help provide humanitarian aid for the refugees.
We have allocated some EUR 50 million for this winter alone, to provide at least some shelter for the refugees.
So it is important that the European Union accounts for two thirds of all observers in the Kosovo Verification Mission and provides virtually all the troops for the NATO Extraction Mission in Macedonia.
Secondly, the Middle East: by inviting President Arafat to Pörtschach - this was planned in advance, but the timing turned out to be very good and he was able to speak to all the Heads of State and Government - by my visit to the Middle East and by the presence of the European Union at the Washington donor conference, we have shown that we are by far the most important and biggest donor in the world.
We have formulated a very sound overall strategy for Russia, more or less recommending that they copy the European social market economy model.
In practical terms, we have now negotiated a quarter of the acquis communautaire and, most importantly, in Vienna we have also unequivocally defined the content of the next stage.
When you look at the Vienna conclusions, you will find that they support the Commission proposal to open negotiations with countries such as Lithuania and Latvia next year, and also with Slovakia, provided they continue with their reform efforts.
As Viktor Klima said, we have covered some new ground in relation to the security and defence dimension.
We held the first meeting of defence ministers outside the Council framework, but the 15 EU defence ministers actually came together in Vienna, an historic first meeting.
This presidency conducted the first ever political dialogue between the EU and the Western European Union.
We held the first policy debate on security and defence in the General Affairs Council and established certain aspects in the Vienna conclusions.
As soon as Agenda 2000 has been completed, we will have to discuss this matter.
Next year the Commission will be submitting its proposals to the institutions.
Mr President, I would like to thank both the President of the European Council and the President-in-Office for their reports here this morning.
On behalf of my group, I should like to add my thanks to the many ministers who have attended here and helped and supported the work of this Parliament.
The forthcoming presidency is destined to conclude the Agenda 2000 package which is of immense significance for existing Member States of the Union and for enlargement.
In particular, it was never the intention that decisions would be made on future financing of the Union.
But it has been possible to continue the debate on some of the key issues facing the Union: the next stage in our employment strategy and a European employment pact.
My group very much hopes that the initiative which the Council outlined in Vienna will allow us to establish a counterweight to the growth and stability pact which will secure future monetary security in the euro zone.
This was a proposal which was put to the Luxembourg special summit in a report from this Parliament by my colleague Wim van Velzen and which the Council at that stage felt needed more analysis and assessment.
The Council is asking the Commission to draw up proposals to counter racism in the applicant countries and invites the Member States to consider similar measures inside the Union.
I want to thank Mr Klima in particular for his willingness to receive the draft statute so carefully developed by our colleague Mr Rothley.
There are some in this House and many outside who have always argued the cynical case, that we would never get the agreement of the Council to put the need for a statute in the Treaty.
Mr Rothley did that.
The agreement with Switzerland is a particular success.
However, my group is increasingly irritated and disturbed by the length of time it is taking to find a solution to the negotiations with South Africa on the trade and cooperation agreement.
I know you agree with me but we note that the Council expects that this will come to a conclusion in the next six months.
On the day on which the European Parliament awards the Sakharov prize for freedom of thought to Ibrahim Rugova who struggled so valiantly for peace in Kosovo, it would be wrong not to pay tribute to the work of the European Union in working for political dialogue, peaceful solutions and humanitarian support in that troubled part of our continent during the last six months.
It is to the credit of your ministers that agreement was finally reached on this programme as well as many others in the past six months - a six months in which Austria can take pride.
There is still no result concerning the Commission's proposals as outlined in its Agenda 2000.
Consequently our group is particularly pleased by the decision to confer on Helmut Kohl the title of 'Honorary Citizen of Europe' and acknowledge his place in history as equal to that of Jean Monnet.
The Commission proposed Agenda 2000 one and a half years ago.
The ELDR recognises that the primary responsibility for employment creation rests with Member States.
Recycling the Luxembourg guidelines grandiosely as an employment pact will make no difference to Europe's unemployed.
Something more profound is needed than relabelling old wine in new bottles.
It is important that the emphasis on European added value in employment policy should not become an escape clause designed to mask the unwillingness of a number of social-democrat-led governments to embrace necessary domestic economic reform.
My group regrets that, 15 months after the signature of Amsterdam, the Council has not integrated Schengen into the acquis.
This is a response to the repeated demands the European Parliament has received from public opinion in our various Member States.
All that remains is to give operational content to this determined approach, and this will be a job for the coming German and Finnish Presidencies.
To conclude, I should like to congratulate the Austrian Presidency for working so hard on furthering European integration, on such vital matters for the future as employment or research policy, as well as in other areas.
A large part of the Council's work concentrated on employment and launched the idea of a European employment pact.
But the 10 % of the working population and the 20 % of young people hoping for employment need to see more obvious results in the fight against unemployment.
The drop in interest rates - which I welcome - should be selectively applied in order to promote employment and not speculation, which should be taxed.
The content of the future European employment pact must learn from previous experience.
At the dawn of the year 2000, the reduction of working hours, a steady job, fair salaries and good training cannot be viewed as unachievable utopian ideas, but rather as rights for every man and woman.
To conclude, I will highlight an important sentence from the Vienna conclusions: 'Employment is the top priority of the European Union ...
I believe that the European social movement must gather strength so that this sentence becomes a reality.
Let us think back: the Luxembourg summit instructed the Vienna summit to adopt an employment pact.
The Cardiff summit instructed the Vienna summit to adopt an employment pact.
And the reform of the institutions: the greatest obstacle to the development of the EU!
In recent years the Council has assumed more and more power and turned the Union more and more into a bazaar of national interests.
Mr President, Chancellor, Mr President of the Commission, as the end of this year and this presidency approaches, we cannot hide a certain feeling of disappointment.
Of course, 1 January will mark a major event, the launch of the euro, but this very positive progress cannot really compensate for the feeble conclusions of the Vienna European Council, which are due to the differences of opinion between the fifteen Member States and to their lack of common political will.
Secondly, no progress has been made on enlargement either, with the European Council merely reiterating what it had already said.
As regards the very important issue of Agenda 2000, we will have to await the next European Council to see exactly where the governments wish to strike a balance between what the presidency conclusions call the spirit of solidarity and budgetary rigour.
Like you, I welcome the 1999 employment guidelines, which, in a European context, aim to have a positive influence on national policies.
In this respect, I was pleased earlier to hear the President of the Commission stress the need for a policy, or at least a coordination of policies, on investment, particularly as regards risk capital investments.
The second positive point that I would like to emphasise concerns human rights.
The summit in Helsinki will expand common policies and set in motion an intergovernmental conference on more majority decision-making and more votes for the large Member States.
We are in the middle of the construction of a new superpower, a USA in Europe, but without American democracy.
A military superpower without democracy is a dangerous quantity and, in any case, that is not what a large number of European voters are demonstrating for.
It is understandable that the difficult and controversial package of Agenda 2000 could not be brought to a conclusion.
That is what makes things so difficult, and it means that a political decision will probably be taken in what some commentators have called the 'night when heads start to roll'.
The disappointment of Vienna is reflected in other areas too, especially employment.
The Vienna strategy may well designate employment as the top priority, but it is marked by a paucity of concrete proposals.
That is a rather miserable result for 17 million unemployed.
Mr President, I think that at this stage in the debate neither the President-in-Office nor the President of the Commission are in a position to listen to too much.
It is also a presidency that represents one of the oldest political concepts in Europe and at the same time is hailed as one of the most modern.
We are moving from the Europe of the internal market, which is more market-oriented and service-based, to the Europe of Economic and Monetary Union and a Europe that concentrates more on the issues in society that affect individuals, namely, environmental and social issues.
More specifically, my group believes that the governments that currently make up the majority in the Union, some of which are socialist, while others are a coalition between socialists and Christian Democrats, are highly concerned about employment because it is the issue that also concerns us as citizens.
There is a whole series of proposals on the table - and I do not wish to bore the presidency and the remaining Members -, but we need to reconsider the ideas in the Delors White Paper, because without investment there are no jobs, and for there to be investment, the financial means need to be provided.
Lastly, Mr President, I believe that the statements made concerning the third pillar were very important, as were those on the creation of an area of freedom and justice, which, as the presidency pointed out to mark the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, is becoming extremely important.
Europe may be an area of asylum and freedom, but what it will never be, of course, is an asylum for criminals, terrorists, drug-traffickers, dictators and torturers.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who placed too much hope in the presidency of the Council in Vienna may of course be disappointed.
But anyone who took a realistic look at the situation and state of affairs within the European Union will note with satisfaction that this Vienna presidency of the Council was like a mountain pass between two summits on a high plateau.
This common European currency, which will become a reality at the end of our presidency, represents a tremendous opportunity for European integration, for deepening that integration, and it has now been supplemented by a stronger resolve to create jobs and work.
I must confess that I too note a certain disappointment in the European Parliament and that I myself am disappointed, for in fact it would be hard to think up anything better than the employment guidelines set out by the Luxembourg summit.
First and foremost we must revive a spirit of enterprise in Europe, and secondly we must promote the ability to find work, through better training and better qualifications.
Over and above that, we can only place more emphasis on certain aspects and highlight the importance of social partnership and a social dialogue at European level.
It took the screening process forward into a phase of substantive negotiations.
I personally would have hoped to see more definite encouragement given to the Slovak Government and a rather speedier process of accession for the new applicant states, rather than all this being postponed to the next but one summit in Helsinki.
But I too lay the blame less on the Austrian Presidency than on the general weakening of the will to reform within the European Union.
Chancellor, I believe that what is decisive in this important area is that we do not confine ourselves to a purse full of ideas.
So this is my verdict, Chancellor: this summit has not broken down the blockade on reform in the European Union in relation to enlargement and the decision-making ability of the European Union and its ability to master problems.
Mr President, the Heads of State and Government have set an ambitious target in trying to find agreement on the Agenda 2000 package at the March summit.
This package of proposals amounts to the most wide-ranging and fundamental examination of all the major political issues dealt with at European Union level: budget and financing, common policies, the process of enlargement, as well as the prospect of economic and social cohesion.
I believe that we should include in the discussion not only purely budgetary matters but also the many additional factors which are also relevant to Agenda 2000 and the process of enlargement.
The suggestion put forward by some Member States that EU spending should be frozen at current levels until 2006 means, in effect, that the richer Member States are seeking to have the cost of enlargement met by the less-developed countries.
I believe that those countries which are currently net beneficiaries from the funds will have great difficulty in accepting such a proposal in March.
It is worth noting that those countries which are currently net beneficiaries are situated to the south and the west of the Union and, as a result, they are likely to benefit far less from enlargement than the already better-off countries in central and northern Europe, which will be better able to take advantage of their proximity to the markets in these new Member States.
It is also important to factor into these calculations the huge benefits of issues such as improved security for countries such as Germany and Austria, as the Union's external border takes a decisive step to the east.
We had expected and, if you will, we still expect in future to see more resistance from the government of Austria, a country rich in history, culture and traditions but one that does not suffer from the complex that affects major powers and does not feel that it is the subsidiary of some major power in the European Union.
It was with sorrow that we saw the Austrian Presidency's document on the funding of the European Union.
Thus the Council has saddled itself with a very crowded agenda for 1999.
I hope we shall get a decision on the Agenda 2000 agreement in March 1999.
The European Parliament has worked hard to get a draft statute for Members ready in good time.
The President of the European Parliament said in his speech in Vienna that the EU had created a further 1.7 million jobs.
If jobs are lost again in the period of recession which is to come, will the EU have destroyed those jobs?
Even though the serious issue of unemployment was on the agenda, the conclusions were nothing but fine words, not decisions leading to the creation of new jobs.
The explanation might perhaps be that whereas 13 of the 15 governments - I mean the Socialist ones - did not share the principles which inspired the Maastricht Treaty, they are now clumsily attempting - painstakingly and unsuccessfully - to circumvent it, and are committing the idealistic errors which Maastricht sought to eliminate once and for all.
This should be of concern not only when outrages are committed, but also when seeking to prevent and overcome a political culture which indirectly protects terrorism and its authors.
And indeed if you look at the situation today, as the Chancellor pointed out, not only has any de-Europeanisation been prevented but in fact Europe is stronger today than it was at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency.
When he joined this Parliament, he vehemently rejected the idea of any kind of employment policy at European level.
So we must have a strong say in the reform of the international financial institutions, in the WTO measures, because we also have a substantive input to make there.
We do not want to impose it on anybody, but we can regard it as a model worth presenting, and these social market economy components should also be apparent in the international financial and trade regulations.
We had preliminary talks yesterday with Commissioner van den Broek on the TACIS regulation.
We would like to be able to discuss and adopt the new TACIS regulation in this Parliament before the summer, if we get it on time from the Council, if it is not left in the drawer for months again, because of course the individual countries would like to exert their influence in certain areas.
So I really would beg you to tell your colleagues in Germany too: please forward the appropriate measures that we want to implement to Parliament, so that we can take an early decision on the foreign policy aspects in particular.
The European security policy has also strengthened Europe.
That will give all the Member States of the European Union a chance to turn this European security policy into a genuine common security policy.
The European Council in Vienna was an important one, in my opinion, because it made plain that there are certain new and unavoidable problems - jobs, enlargement, tax harmonisation - but ones which are not easy to tackle.
The European Council in Vienna was the first one since the expansion of the borders of the so-called 'social democratic Europe'.
The question of funding, raised in no uncertain terms by Chancellor Schröder, is a very real one which had already been raised by Chancellor Kohl.
As a result, the situation is going to become extremely worrying.
Given the developments in the financial world, we can see clearly that the world economic system is becoming extremely unstable.
Consequently, we are heading towards a situation that is only getting worse and that is compounded, in some way, by the quasi-colonial position of the European Union today in relation to the United States.
No-one really wants to face up to this problem.
Of course, there was some vague resistance to the negotiations on international trade relations and the d'Amato law, as well as other similar matters, but that has not stopped this situation of dependence from deteriorating every day.
Therefore, we need to think seriously in order to change the course of the development of European policy, both in terms of its relationships with the United States and in terms of its internal economic policy.
In this respect, I fear that next year will be a year where, at least on an economic level, things will only get worse for the majority of Europeans.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Presidency was of course a typical working presidency.
But while a presidency of the Council can be as diligent and as clever as it may - and the Austrian Presidency was both - it still cannot deliver more than the other 14 are willing to give.
But my question concerns a point that has been almost totally forgotten.
It also involves the Council's future working methods, and it does not just mean that Parliament should determine with the Commission what is the most efficient way of framing policies; it also concerns the Council.
We can do it, but let me repeat: we can do it only if the 15 national interests are supplemented by a major common denominator on European issues.
There will always be national interests in Europe, just as there are also different regional interests in each Member State.
I am also specifically addressing the incoming German Presidency here: national interests have to be formulated, compromises have to be found, but at the same time we must always look to the common European interest.
But none of that could stop the Vienna Summit from being inevitably a summit-in-waiting, a pastoral interlude before the storm in the spring.
What we are facing in the spring is a Grade 1 crisis, an internal crisis in the Union set against a very difficult international background: the reform of the common agricultural policy, a new budget deal, the key argument over the timing of enlargement; set against a background of a Russia in crisis, a Middle East dragging itself towards 4 May, an unresolved tragedy in Kosovo, a Washington summit of NATO.
I appeal not just to you, Chancellor, but to all the members of the European Council to concentrate on the essentials: on enlargement, defence and foreign policy.
We really have to solve that major crisis before the elections so that Europe can restart its progress towards the end of this century.
I should like to say on behalf of the Socialist Group and, I am sure, on behalf of this House, that we hope the Austrian Government will continue to press during the German presidency for the implementation of measures that will help to tackle unemployment.
My own country used to be governed by a party that treated every summit meeting as though it was a combative exercise with our neighbours in the European Union.
What we have to do is share sovereignty where we can improve society but agree that things should be left to individual governments where appropriate.
Therefore the significant thing about Vienna was the way in which we are now starting to drop dogma and ideology and recognise that there are some major problem areas in which the European Union must act.
The European Union cannot be protectionist.
I hope that, when the summit meeting is held between Europe and the United States within the next few weeks, the President-in-Office of the Council will stress the fact that we urgently need a new round of world trade negotiations.
If we want to kick-start the global economy after the crisis of the last 12 months, international trade plays an extremely important role.
This means that in relation to developing nations we must make sure that trade relations can actually help their economies.
The debate will be continued this afternoon at 3 p.m.
VOTES Madam President, as rapporteur for the programme on injury prevention, I wish to inform Parliament that I have proposed the adoption of the common position by the simplified procedure for two main reasons: firstly, because the common position incorporates most of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament, including of course the budget amounting to ECU 14 million.
Secondly, because the programme can then be set in motion at once without wasting time - and I remind the House that every year there are 22 million injuries and 130 000 deaths.
Unfortunately, the Council has rejected this in its common position.
The committee is therefore quite right in its report to place great importance on reintroducing the essential demands from the first reading.
But these fishermen do not want to receive compensation.
At the end of last night's debate, Commissioner Monti, in as clear a manner as possible, confirmed that this discrimination does exist and is continuing.
I am delighted that an overwhelming majority of this House has voted to adopt my report and the amendments I tabled.
I should also like to thank the 52 Members who supported my proposal, which was adopted by the Committee on Fisheries, to wait for a legal decision before allocating any compensation, so that fishermen and shipowners do not then have to refund aid that may no longer have a legal basis.
I think that, on the contrary, it is essential that we do not anticipate this and that we wait for justice to be done on the four appeals filed against the Council Decision of 8 June.
Colino Salamanca report (A4-0506/98) I share the concern of this Parliament at the plight of the Russian people following the collapse of the Russian economy.
Food Aid is, of course, a short-term emergency measure and is not a substitute for much needed political and economic reform of the banking, social security and tax collection systems in Russia.
The economic problems in Russia have serious consequences for the EU and, in particular, for Ireland, because of our agricultural and meat exports to that country.
Resolution on the annual programme for 1999 Madam President, on behalf of my group, and Georges Berthu in particular, I should like to say that the Commission's work programme for 1999 seemed to us to be very full, and we wonder how it will be able to take it on, given the state it is in at the end of 1998.
The main priority, which overshadows all others, is to obtain an agreement on financing the Agenda 2000 programme for the 2000-2006 period.
Nonetheless, the Commission hopes to close this case before the European elections by expecting to present the citizens of the Member States with a fait accompli , in accordance with good old federalist methods.
In paragraph 35, Parliament 'encourages the Commission to speed up its programme concerning the new common system of VAT'.
Arroni report (A4-0485/98) We believe in maximum information for the public to ease the euro's introduction.
The changeover to the euro on 1 January next year affects all of us, whether we have a job or are retired, whether we are adults or children.
However, with only a few days to go to this unprecedented event, many Europeans are ill-informed, indifferent or overtly hostile.
The European Parliament cannot be content with this state of affairs as there is a danger of it causing the single currency to fail, but also because a 'successful' euro is a powerful factor in forging a common European identity.
The 370 million Europeans, whether or not they will participate in the euro, are not asking for information on the main general points, interspersed with overviews of monetary history since the Middle Ages.
We will all need to rebuild our scales of values in terms of our salaries and our daily expenditure.
For others, it will be more disconcerting.
Local and regional authorities are not sufficiently involved in this approach.
The European Union must make better use of their abilities, which, in this respect, are almost limitless.
The vote on this report gives me an opportunity to stress that the introduction of the euro must take the citizen into account.
The UK is participating in the Euro information strategy, which will cause confusion as the UK does not intend to enter the EMU nor will it even set a date for UK entry.
I support the main thrust of this report, which calls for a substantial increase in the budget for comprehensive information campaigns relating to the issues that need to be addressed in the context of the introduction of the single European currency into Europe.
The euro currency will touch every aspect of corporate life and will lead to a big shake-up in company policies and procedures.
The fact that the euro notes and coins will not come into circulation until 1 January 2002 must not disguise the fact that the euro currency becomes a reality in non-cash format on 1 January next.
Now it is a question of who will gain and who will lose in the new marketplace and much will depend on how companies handle the transition period between January 1999 and January 2002.
Disseminating information to a population of 291 million people within eleven participating countries is not a cheap exercise.
The European budget must reflect this fact by ensuring that sizeable increases in information campaigns relating to the new euro currency are put in place.
Moreover, monies must be made available for comprehensive information campaigns in the four countries that are not participating in the new European single currency regime from 1 January 1999, namely, Greece, Britain, Finland and Sweden.
If the European single currency is to fully complement the workings of the internal market in Europe then the single European currency should apply in all fifteen Member States of the EU.
Information campaigns must play their part in this regard so as to ensure that the European Union has one single currency operating within all its Member States in the near future.
The information strategy for the euro affects both the 'in' countries and those that have elected to remain 'free' outside EMU.
In addition, a good, targeted information policy is a crucial element in the efforts to introduce the euro in Denmark as well, where the scepticism of the population is partly due to a lack of information about the advantages of the common currency.
When the 11 countries participating in the common currency lock their internal exchange rates on 1 January 1999 and replace their national currencies with the euro in 2002, they will no longer be able to make use of exchange rate policy, in other words they will no longer be able to devalue or revalue their currencies.
Saying that the shock is asymmetric means that it only affects one particular country or one particular branch of industry.
The text that has been submitted to us is the fruit of detailed work by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and by its rapporteur, Alman Metten.
In this respect, the creation of a Community fund to help the countries in the euro area in cases of asymmetric shocks should help us build a solid foundation for our single currency for the future, particularly for those countries that have decided to adopt it.
It is also a guarantee of stability for the euro in relation to strong currencies such as the yen and the dollar.
On the other hand, although we believe that asymmetric shocks will decrease as of 1 January 1999, a prediction confirmed in recent months of great stability in Euroland currencies, we must take the diversity of legislation and policies into account.
As we know, Denmark is not going to participate in the third stage of EMU which begins on 1 January 1999.
The report points out that individual Member States are losing influence over monetary policy and also over financial policy.
The report points out that the risk of country-specific economic shocks will not disappear after the introduction of the euro, and that it is therefore necessary to establish a stabilisation fund which the euro countries will be able to borrow from in cases of asymmetric shocks.
In spite of considerable vertical integration in terms of the coordination of the economies of the Member States in recent years, there have been many examples of purely country-specific shocks.
The introduction of the euro will entail a definitive locking together of the monetary and currency policies of the 11 euro countries.
The 11 Member States will thereby lose a vital economic instrument in the event of a financial crisis.
Instead, the Member States can try to improve their competitiveness by allowing the economic crisis to filter down through the pay structure, with lower minimum wages and poorer working conditions as a result.
This report deals with the issues confronting a single currency.
Paragraph 2 of the report states that 'it will be necessary to coordinate the Member States' economic policies more closely'.
Asymmetric shocks have their origin in asymmetric national economies, a reality which the euro does not eliminate, and in the way that they can react to any situations and shocks that might affect them asymmetrically.
This own-initiative report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is a reflection of a strong desire to take into account all the problems which could occur in the financial markets after the introduction of the euro.
This report is a step in the continuing assessment of all the relevant factors in any effects the euro may have.
As usual, despite repeated urgings, even by Parliament itself which adopted a number of related amendments of ours in previous reports, the Commission still remains silent and is not disclosing studies, which we are sure are in its possession, concerning the consequences of EMU for the economies of the Member States, the various branches and sectors of the economy, employment, labour relations, social security and peoples' incomes.
The Metten report, perhaps for the first time, mentions certain consequences of EMU and the euro which will affect the Member States, especially those with the weaker economies.
However, they have to hand an important means for dealing with it, namely the national budgets which amount to nearly 50 % of their GDP, even if they use those means ineffectually.
The report itself recognises that national monetary policies will cease within the euro area, and that this will essentially happen also with Member States outside its area, and the absolute arbiter of monetary policy will now be the European Central Bank, which will set a uniform interest rate that will inevitably be quite inappropriate for some Member States thereby sparking off crises.
The same will happen in the event that Member States cannot observe the deficit index when, in accordance with the stability pact, they will be required to pay fines while simultaneously applying for a loan from the proposed fund.
The great truth brought out by this report is its emphasis that 'after the end of national monetary sovereignty, more drastic financial and pay policies will be necessary'.
Nevertheless, I note today that agreement has been reached on the 1999 employment policy guidelines.
The European Investment Bank's interim report on the implementation of the special action programme on employment is also positive.
The proposals on Objective 2 structural policy flagrantly disadvantage our rural areas.
Under the principle of subsidiarity, we should give regional and local authorities considerably more freedom to allocate national aid money.
The European CSU group will therefore be carefully monitoring future developments on these questions under the German Presidency of the Council.
No-one who was aware of the objective difficulties the pending issues posed would have expected the Austrian Presidency to have concluded the most important elements of Agenda 2000.
We do, however, welcome the fact that the Vienna European Council managed to restore balance to the situation and that the Commission's initial proposal is again being used as a sound basis for negotiation, which will have to be a core element of the final agreement, as President Santer pointed out this morning.
Lastly, I would like to congratulate the Austrian Presidency for placing considerable emphasis on active employment policies and for encouraging the Member States to define policies in their national action plans and establish additional objectives and more precise timetables.
The applicant countries have reformed their economies in such a way as to furnish us with new markets and jobs.
Mr President, I think that we should all welcome the fact that the Council, in its various forms - and on this occasion, the European Council itself -, increasingly participates in our debates.
And in relation to funding, it is indeed true that the European Council stated quite a few months ago now that it was not prepared to increase the European Union's own resources.
But it was then up to the Commission to have either accepted or debated it, or to have put forward a sufficiently ambitious proposal itself.
If the budget is insufficient, we cannot achieve our aims.
The new German Government is endeavouring to preach the virtues of this package at national level, but with little result.
The Austrian Foreign Minister is right on one point, when he said that much improvement is still needed in relation to foreign and security policy - something which also applies to employment.
The Austrian compromise largely satisfies these demands.
We expect the forthcoming German Presidency finally to bring about a political agreement on the sound basis of the Austrian proposal.
Mr President, the Vienna European Council was a huge failure despite the efforts of the Austrian Presidency.
The fact that everything has been postponed until the German Presidency has been compounded by a negative overall result marked by the controversy about how to finance the Union, which could lead to a reduction of 10 % in agricultural spending and 25 % in the Structural Funds.
But it would politically inexplicable if these two problems were to be resolved at the cost of funds aimed at the poorest countries and regions among the current 15 Member States of the European Union, turning Article 2 of the Maastricht Treaty on economic and social cohesion into a dead letter.
Therefore I can only conclude that it did so for tactical reasons with the aim of obliging the cohesion states to lower their expectations in relation to Agenda 2000.
I have a nagging doubt about whether or not this position was taken in cahoots with the next Council presidency!
If it was then we are facing a serious crisis in the history of the European Union - curiously at a time when 11 out of the 15 prime ministers are socialists.
They are all aware of the complex negotiations behind Agenda 2000 and the difficulties faced by the Council in finding fair and reasonable solutions.
And all this at a time when fighting is breaking out across our borders in Kosovo, when the situation in the Middle East is extremely tense, when the financial and economic crisis in Asia and South America is spilling over into Russia, when unemployment remains high.
We really must hope that things are better in the future, and that the spirit of Jacques Delors and Helmut Kohl will light upon these Heads of Government again, otherwise we shall be heading for a fine catastrophe in future.
The Commission's document on the Nordic dimension, which was officially presented at Vienna, is excellent.
The economic and political crisis in Russia has underlined the need for the Union to take action to dampen down its effects.
Mr President, with this report I wish to pay tribute to my many friends who have been lost, victims of the bestiality that has characterised a large part of recent history.
That integrated system for the appraisal and monitoring of human rights will be governed by the fundamental principles accepted by the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I present this report I should like to begin by thanking everyone who has helped to draft it, in particular my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and, above all, members of the secretariat whose great technical skills and professionalism have made a major contribution to the heritage of democratic culture and human rights that honours the European Parliament.
Thus we can see that the strength of democratic public opinion can prevail over the requirements of realpolitik and help to bring into action elements - albeit in their early stages - of an international human rights order currently being sketched out in the European Union, with its supranational institutions based on the principles of the rule of law and its area of freedom, security and justice.
On the most elementary human rights, such as the right to life, freedom and dignity, the Universal Declaration continues largely to be a dead letter.
I thought it both important and instructive, however, despite some of the pessimistic discussions that we have heard in recent days, to emphasise the positive aspects: the progress in ratifying international pacts, the creation or approval of the statute of an International Criminal Court, which, despite its limitations, opens the door to creating an international legal order, and last but not least the strength of democratic public opinion, of a universal opinion going beyond national frontiers and capable of defending and often imposing the fundamental principles that we fight for here.
Now that the Cold War has come to an end, it is high time to dissociate the fight for human rights from ideological conflict and apply human rights effectively in their universality, interdependence and indivisibility.
The report proposes that European politics should be shored up by human rights.
I therefore call on the Commission to respond to the practical proposals set out in this report.
I should also like to say that I am going to table an oral amendment of my own, calling for an international effort proposed by our President for a so-called 'Millennium amnesty' so that, in this way we can celebrate the values we fight for here in the promotion of human rights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the future rules for implementing European Union operations which, as part of its policy on development cooperation, contribute to the general objective of development and the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law along with human rights, fundamental freedoms and the proper management of public affairs.
By approving this regulation, the Commission will be setting the conditions for granting, mobilising and implementing aid as well as those for sustaining the actions needed to give more visibility to the effects of this aid on democracy and human rights.
In the future, full satisfaction will be given to the European Parliament's concern - which it has successfully defended - that, in the cooperation relations that it maintains with all developing countries, the European Union will have to attach greater importance to the promotion of human rights and democratic values in those countries.
I would even go so far as to say that the promotion of human rights, democratic values, the rule of law, good governance and the fight against corruption should become essential elements of any future agreement.
When we look at the African continent and see that there are open conflicts still taking place in sixteen countries, costing thousands of victims every day and wasting on military equipment the resources that should be spent on health, education and water supplies for its people, and when we know that 1.3 billion people in the developing countries have a purchasing power of one dollar per day, we cannot continue to dither in a way that has prevented cooperation aid from pursuing noble objectives and causes that would have easily identifiable results in relieving extreme poverty among those populations.
In countries subject for decades to brutal dictatorships, so often supported and even nourished by European states, and in others subjected to long and bloody armed conflicts, the European Union cannot be satisfied with free elections as a sufficient and lasting means of transition towards democracy.
Elections must be followed up by the necessary constitutional and legislative reforms to promote the strengthening of the rule of law and, in particular, to provide support for the independence and strengthening of the judiciary and for a penitentiary system that respects human beings, and to foster pluralism both in terms of politics and the civil society, by strengthening the institutions needed for ensuring pluralism in society, including non-governmental organisations; this should also be accompanied by the promotion of independent, pluralist and responsible media and support for the freedom of the press, as well as respect for the rights of freedom of association and the promotion of equal opportunities and non-discriminatory practices, including measures to fight racism, xenophobia and sexism, and supporting initiatives for abolishing the death penalty.
Without the existence of parliaments with effective powers of taxation, without the existence of courts and an independent judicial system, without free press and media, it will be always impossible to consolidate democracy, the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights, public freedoms and proper management of public affairs, all preconditions for economic growth and combating poverty.
But in addition to all of these problems, I would draw particular attention to the fight against corruption and good governance as essential elements that all cooperation and development agreements with third countries should contain.
The latest report by the World Bank, 'Assessing Aid', is clear on this score: aid can be extremely positive and effective in the promotion of growth and the reduction of poverty as long as it is applied in a healthy economic environment.
Rigorous economic management is more important for developing countries than international financial aid, which can only have positive impacts in countries which have already carried out the necessary political and institutional reforms.
If on the other hand it goes into the hands of all of the Mobutus and Mugabes of this world then only the tax-havens where so much money laundering takes place will benefit, along with certain western politicians and financiers who support them, because - let us not forget - there is only passive corruption in the developing countries and the actively corrupt all live in the rich countries.
Mr President, events have proved that Parliament was fully justified in its desire to create a solid legal basis for cooperation in the field of democracy and human rights in the European Union.
Mr President, respect for human rights and basic rights and the consolidation of the rule of law are key principles of the EU.
I wish to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report.
This has been approved in the report.
Similarly the committee has asked the Commission to put forward a proposal as to whether we should use part A or B of the budget.
Such working parties enjoy a good reputation, for example in the MEDA Programme, and this working party would be handled in the same way as committees made up of Member States.
Mr President, I fully endorse the reports by Mr Roubatis, Mr Barros Moura and Mr Torres Couto.
I also wished to express my appreciation of the work which Mrs Lenz has done in recent years in this House.
Who could have thought, 50 years ago, that a recommendation to the UN General Assembly would be so important?
The whole business of enforcing human rights is based on two approaches, legal and political.
I agree with what Mr Gil-Robles said in Vienna on 10 December: an amnesty for conscientious objectors.
We do it just as much and often to a far greater degree through our trade relations, imports and exports, investment, export credit guarantees and, last but not least, our agricultural policy.
Here we can and must intervene on a regulatory basis, by addressing our partners in third countries and also the operators in the European Union, such as the European multinational companies.
We are calling, for example, for annual Commission reports on the human rights situation and, where necessary, concrete sanctions.
The new GSP with its positive incentives clause, which rewards respect for human rights with tariff cuts, is an important step forward here.
Mr President, I should like to praise the good cooperation from members of all the groups on these reports, and in all the various committees.
Today, they are bound up indivisibly with the rule of law and democracy, with the activities of the NGOs, with civil society in its diversity and with the EU's foreign policy.
They must and will remain an important aspect of the European Union's foreign policy and, precisely because they can still be used as an instrument of national policy today, our Parliament must devote attention to them.
Let me say on behalf of the Committee on Institutional Affairs that we approve the broad lines of the Roubatis report and firmly support its calls for strengthening and concentrating the logistic personnel potential that exists in the Commission, in the form of a single Vice-President and a single Commissioner responsible for human rights issues, and for a comprehensive analysis and annual reports to the European Parliament and, where appropriate, sanctions.
In the 1993 Maastricht Treaty, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is for the first time mentioned in an article, Article 2, and not just in a preamble.
Respect for human rights is an important precondition for the achievement of democracy, development and peace.
Poverty is still feminised, and not only in what is called the third world.
We have heard Portuguese speakers and a Greek speaker; in my case, as an Austrian I know that in the dark hours of our history, when we were oppressed, it was very comforting to receive signs of solidarity from other countries in the world.
In the case of Austria, this solidarity even came from Mexico, from far away.
We may be against governments, against armed forces or against those in power, but we are for the people themselves who are fighting for freedom, for human rights, in these countries.
What we can and should do - and the reports contain some good ideas here - is to help those who are fighting a difficult fight on the ground, at the risk of imprisonment, of sanctions and perhaps even of death.
Because a successful fight for human rights is a contribution to peace - and we all have a right to peace.
As I finish speaking, let us simply remember that such freedom is fragile and can disappear in a puff of smoke.
We should remember here the resolution adopted ten days ago and the Commissioner knows, of course, that we remain vigilant.
Dictatorial regimes also applaud human rights policy, but a credible human rights policy means an active policy that affects people's real lives.
Here, the Commission must breathe life into the human rights clause in the treaties and not keep telling us why economic interests come first.
I would refer to paragraph 26 of Mr Roubatis's resolution and regard the call made there for the introduction of standard human rights clauses extremely necessary and important.
In particular, the European Union must not silently and indirectly tolerate the social and sexual abuse of children.
Compliance with human rights and in particular the protection of children against any maltreatment must be made a condition for allowing any undertaking to be eligible for receiving state aid and to take part in public tenders.
Mr President, I think it is significant that the European Parliament chose to celebrate informally the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, both by awarding the Sacharov prize to Ibrahim Rugova this morning and by keeping this joint discussion sharply focused on the search for a strong political line concerning human rights issues.
I believe that the three reports under discussion are equal to the task and are, above all, a sign of increasing political will and powers within the European Union to take tangible, active steps towards promoting human rights.
This report stresses a concept which I regard as fundamental, namely the existence of an intrinsic link between the development of human rights and democracy and development per se .
If, as we have always maintained, development must be humane, participatory and sustainable, it cannot be achieved by infringing human rights or denying democratic rights.
Allow me to conclude by saying that investment in human rights is probably the most profitable form of investment nowadays, both because so many blatant violations are occurring and because some still aspire to a world which revolves around human beings.
After more than two decades of our cooperation policy being in force, we are now obliged to shift the emphasis onto different areas, to take a different approach and to give new impetus to our relations with developing countries.
The Amnesty International report is confirmation of this damning picture of torture, unlawful executions and prisoners of conscience being detained in a large number of countries.
At least in its debates, the European Parliament has always shown sensitivity about human rights.
Before anything else I should like to stress that our group supports both reports and shares the view that respect for human rights depends on many factors, which are not just political, social, economic or cultural.
Mr President there is no doubt that the reports we are debating contain very important and interesting ideas on human rights.
Mr President, when we talk about human rights abuses around the world we have to look to ourselves and see what we are responsible for.
We have to look at how the European Union Member States fuel conflicts around the world and human rights abuses.
We must still hope for a world where democracy can spread its wings ever wider, and trust that - sooner or later, slowly but inexorably - justice will triumph, bringing about real respect for human rights.
We have to be much stricter in everything we do within and beyond the European Union, and this is something that I would like to stress in particular.
For example, in my country, the spectacle of immigrants flooding into Ceuta or Melilla does not help us defend human rights as vigorously and as emphatically as we have been doing.
We need to endorse the support programmes for democracy and human rights abroad.
The Pinochet case, in my opinion, shows that it is only through this international legitimacy, which must be achieved by consensus, that we will be able to progress.
Mr President, in the suffocatingly short time allotted to me for so broad and critical a subject, I can only stress one point in the detailed and pragmatic report by Mr Roubatis.
But our continued tolerance not only does nothing to teach respect for human rights to countries that are historically distanced from democratic models, but allows those countries to accuse us of hypocrisy and discriminatory political treatment.
Mr President, when a state puts one of its citizens to death, most of us in this House view that act as a serious violation of human rights.
As President Gil-Robles said earlier today, it is of particular importance that countries wishing to join the European Union demonstrate a commitment to human rights.
The three richest people in the world have fortunes which surpass the combined GNP of the 48 poorest countries.
The average income in more than 70 countries is lower than it was 20 years ago.
The Sakharov prize does not always mean that things actually get better, as is apparent from the position of Aung San Suu Kyi, still held under house arrest in Burma.
However, if we look around us our disappointment is considerable, because we realise that human rights are still being infringed on a daily basis in a large number of countries.
Much still remains to be done, therefore, as is stated very clearly in our reports and documents.
National governments, our European Union and governments around the world should incorporate respect for human rights into their political programmes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every human life is unique and irreplaceable.
All human beings are born free, with equal dignity and equal rights.
There can be no doubt that respect for human rights and the duty to perform humanitarian deeds constitute the fundamental values of a society which naturally considers itself free, civil, democratic and just.
Apart from being fundamental, these rights are described as inviolable, in that nothing and no one may infringe or jeopardise them, in other words harm, restrict or remove them.
Mr President, I wish to express my congratulations to the three rapporteurs whose reports are before us today and to say that we should not be too pessimistic that so much remains to be done fifty years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
While it is tragic that discrimination, imprisonment, ill-treatment, torture, injury and death in flagrant contempt of fundamental human rights still occur, such acts are now widely regarded as criminal and many tyrannical regimes have in fact fallen.
The proceedings against individuals for their actions in the former Yugoslavia and against General Pinochet of Chile demonstrate that accountability for human rights violations is now seen as transcending national frontiers.
A recent development report of the United Nations detailed the prevalence of world poverty and stated that 358 billionaires owned capital equivalent to the annual income of nearly half the world's population.
Despite all the shortcomings, the European Union and Parliament have made a most valuable contribution to the promotion of human rights.
The consideration of these, engendered by human rights clauses in agreements, reports, urgency motions and other means in countries across the world is of great importance and, as I well know, is welcomed by democrats in those countries.
In supporting the reports before us now, I hope that we shall all pledge ourselves to continue and further enhance our work on human rights, which is in the interests of all humanity.
That is no mean task, and the Commission is very pleased that Parliament has awarded the prize to this man.
The Commission is very happy with most of the recommendations and shared ideas expressed in the first two reports.
Thanks to Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Court of Justice all pulling together, it was possible to formulate and implement a pro-active policy on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Human rights are now a priority objective in our external relations and our development cooperation.
You will doubtless be aware that for a number of years now, every new agreement concluded with a third country has indeed included a clause of this kind.
I am also thinking of the OSCE and the United Nations.
The Union supports the International Criminal Court and the special tribunals on the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
A very important and parallel area of the Union's human rights activities is the giving of aid to non-governmental organisations which seek to uphold human rights in third countries and also provide practical assistance to the victims of human rights violations.
Violation of their rights in many instances leads to violent conflict, as witness the tragic events we are now seeing in Kosovo.
Concerning the proposals made in the Barros Moura and Roubatis reports, which are specifically addressed to the Commission, I would comment as follows.
In line with the rapporteur's suggestion, the Commission has promised in its 1999 programme to provide the Council and Parliament with a communication on a general strategy for human rights and democratisation.
That strategy will obviously have to dovetail with the proposed approach in the draft regulations for our human rights programmes which, as you know, are currently under discussion.
The Commission is also being asked to prepare a general Union report on human rights worldwide.
The possibility of a report of this kind is allowed for in the Vienna declaration and will be studied by the Commission.
I am thinking of the wealth of material available here in reports of Amnesty International, for example, or Human Rights Watch.
In addition to providing a general report on actions taken to promote human rights in the period 1996-1998, the document will include details of Union activities concerned with the monitoring of elections, and of course other aspects of human rights policy as well.
I thought I also said that Mr Santer, the President of the Commission, intended to draw up an account next year of how the Commission would be organised from the year 2000 onwards with regard to external relations.
Last month, I also pointed to the need for the relevant 1999 budget lines to have a budgetary remark which would enable the Commission to draw on outside assistance in carrying out its programmes.
The Commission believes that the proposed ceiling on expenditure to be set annually should refer solely to the activities listed in Article 3 (4), with the understanding that this includes an explicit reference to assistance to the Commission in administering its programmes, as well as to the Commission and beneficiaries together.
The Commission notes Parliament's wish to be briefed on the committee's work but as far as following up on this amendment is concerned, we would refer to the institutional practice adopted in other cases.
The Commission is not opposed to the amendments relating to the programming or annual assessment of measures and relaxing the criterion of experience for potential beneficiaries, but would like to have a number of points clarified.
The reference to an interinstitutional working party, something we have previously discussed, is problematic.
If these proposals were acted upon, it would mean an infringement of the powers of management and implementation and could lead to a breach of the regulation or to it being impossible to apply.
This working party, which is also mentioned in the Barros Moura report, cannot be a new interinstitutional structure charged with investigating the Commission's activities in identifying projects either before or after the event.
Lastly, I should say as regards the three reports that interinstitutional cooperation and dialogue has enabled the Commission over the past year to develop its policy for promoting and protecting human rights further.
Mr van den Broek has tried really hard to answer the points raised by many speakers and in three reports, and we must recognise that.
Mr President, at the end of 1998, the free world is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in splendour.
But in this report, it is our duty to highlight the progress that has been made in certain countries.
We cannot fail to be pleased that the draft Treaty of Amsterdam has now added greater weight to respect for human rights as the ethical and political basis of all action taken by the Union, both at home and abroad.
The first of these rights is the right to life.
But this right also involves the right not to be subjected to inhumane treatment, the right to have access to care and the right to a dignified death.
The problem of euthanasia is more than a social debate.
The right to life also leads to the right to security and therefore to the condemnation of terrorism.
The Member States must collaborate closely in this field, but this unending struggle must go hand-in-hand with respect for the rule of law.
Whether it be for terrorism or crime in general, respect for the rule of law involves the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair and just trial, respect for the rights of the defendant and, if a prison sentence is handed down, respect for the rights of the prisoner.
Despite the fact that the Member States agreed to include provisions for combating all forms of discrimination in the draft Treaty of Amsterdam, the reality of the situation is that we still see a number of distortions occurring between the principles and the facts, for example, in terms of women's rights, the rights of the child, protecting the family, as well as in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
In this report and in some amendments that have been tabled, there are a few sticking points on asylum and immigration problems.
I think, in particular, that the proposal to give immigrants the right to vote in local elections is premature, even for those with legal status or who have lived in a Member State for more than five years.
Mr President, the report we are discussing today is of extreme symbolic importance.
In France, some police trade union members are also alarmed by the growing number of incidences of brutal and undemocratic conduct, conduct that tramples both laws and the Declaration of Human Rights underfoot, even though it is displayed in all French police stations.
I hope I can count on a similar effort from the other groups so that, tomorrow, we can send a very clear message to the Council, to the Commission and to the Member States, a message that reflects the symbolic anniversary we celebrated last week.
Mr President, I am going to speak on behalf of my friend and colleague Laura de Esteban who has had to leave.
Once again, we are dealing with an annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union, which, in its original version, contains an excellent and well structured explanatory statement with reliable data from the European institutions, and which focuses on the legal and real aspects of the respect for human rights in the Union.
The motion for a resolution is also consistent with the explanatory statement and contains 62 paragraphs whose legal basis is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, a fundamental guide for the respect of human rights in the Union, as established in our Treaty.
Our duty as Members of this House is to ensure that European Parliament resolutions rigorously respect ideological impartiality and the law in its broadest sense.
We should like to reiterate our absolute respect for the dignity and value of human beings and equal rights for men and women, as well as reasserting that all human rights are universal, indivisible and independent.
We are in favour of absolute respect for the rights of prisoners and should like to stress the importance of rehabilitation and reintegration measures.
However, we are obliged to vote against those paragraphs in the report that do not respect the concept of human rights, those that go beyond our competences or those that contravene Community law.
In this connection, my group is tabling an amendment that reminds us of a fundamental principle, namely, the principle stating that Member States are competent to recognise and regulate nationality and that exercising civil rights is linked to having that nationality.
I hope that with sufficient support from Parliament we can finally adopt a resolution that is worthy of this institution on the important occasion of the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights.
This report is one of the annual exercises that remind us of the best possible way of ensuring respect for human rights within the European Union.
The rapporteur presents us with a detailed study.
It would be deceptive to believe that democracy alone could guarantee respect for human rights.
It is unthinkable that the fight against poverty or even unemployment could trigger sanctions, in that a right exists if a sanction exists.
Mr President, if only one picture from the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights sticks in my mind, it will be that of the Place du Trocadero in Paris on Thursday, 10 December.
Lionel Jospin could have used this commemoration to begin regulating the situation of illegal immigrants.
We simply have to read a few articles from the 1948 Declaration and compare them with the reality in our countries to realise that the situation here is dire.
Article 1 states that 'All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights'.
War and poverty force some people to leave their countries.
There are 17 million unemployed in the European Union.
There are 57 million poor people in the European Union.
There would be a great deal to say, but what we really need is a greater political will on the part of our governments to put their own house in order and rid themselves of all the inhuman dregs that cause many citizens to turn their backs on politics.
And this is a very real threat to our democracies.
I am sure that the annual reports presented to Parliament on human rights in the European Union since 1992 make for greater consistency in what the Community does.
We all know that the Amsterdam Treaty once again emphasised the fact that the Union is based on the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
On the other hand, we are also parties to the European Convention on Human Rights, by which we are all bound, the European Social Charter and the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment.
Regarding topical issues such as intolerance, racism and xenophobia, it was good to see that our Heads of Government in Vienna again underlined the importance of combating these and once again asked the Commission to draw up more detailed proposals on how to take action against crimes of this kind.
The only point I will repeat, and I shall end on this note, is that the European Union and its Member States owe it to themselves to set an example if they wish to go on being a credible commentator on the human rights situation across the world.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0713/98).
I am giving you advance notice of this, ladies and gentlemen, because if we were not aware of it we might spend the whole period set aside for Question Time on one question.
I notice that the Council is aware of the issue, but the FAA, the United States Federal Aviation Administration, is leading the way in this matter, and my particular question relates to whether or not research is continuing in this respect in Europe as it is in the United States.
Mr President, Mr Camisón Asensio, things are not quite as simple as you suggest.
As I am sure you know, under the provisions of the Treaty, which are the basis for any European Union action, it is in general up to the Commission to draw up the proposals which it considers necessary in fulfilment of its tasks.
At present, there is no Commission proposal or communication on the matter before the Council.
The US Federal Aviation Authority investigated and certified the heat-resistance of these materials before authorising their use in civil aviation.
The Council is of the opinion that the best option, with a view also to preventing further human rights violations, would be to seek a solution under the auspices of the United Nations.
For here the Council's objective remains a federation consisting of two ethnic groups and two zones, based on a comprehensive political settlement in compliance with the UN Security Council resolutions.
The Union also takes the view that progress towards EU accession and progress towards a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus issue will by their nature be mutually reinforcing.
It deeply regrets that it did not prove possible to bring about a political solution in good time, before the start of the negotiations, but believes that the accession of Cyprus to the EU would benefit all ethnic groups and contribute towards internal peace and reconciliation on the island.
Can the Council tell us whether it agrees with what Mr van den Broek and the Commission as a whole have said, namely that the government of Cyprus has made all the constructive proposals that it could concerning the participation of the Turkish Cypriot community in the accession negotiations, that responsibility unfortunately rests with the Turkish Cypriot community and Turkey, and that the procedures and talks on the accession of the Republic of Cyprus cannot ultimately become hostage to an intransigent attitude by Turkey.
To be an EU Member State, we want a Cyprus that has achieved a lasting political solution.
I give the floor to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner to answer Mrs McIntosh's question.
That is a component of the accession process, based on a global, inclusive and developing approach embracing all the countries that are seeking accession and which includes Cyprus and the ten Central and Eastern European countries.
The accession negotiations with Cyprus and the other applicant states began on 31 March 1998.
Since acquis screening is still going on with regard to all 31 negotiating chapters, and the European Union cannot therefore formulate any common positions regarding the negotiations at this stage, it is not possible to set a timetable for the conclusion of the negotiations, and certainly not for accession.
That applies to Cyprus as it does to all the other applicant countries.
This has important implications for the citizens of Cyprus and also for those of our citizens who wish to do business or possibly to live in Cyprus.
Our objective is indeed the accession of an undivided island.
At the same time, it must of course be clear that no third country can have a veto in the EU enlargement process.
Mr President, Mr Alavanos, I can only repeat what I have just emphasised, that of course no third country - which means not Turkey either - can have a veto in this EU enlargement process.
We have always regretted that it did not prove possible to find a positive political solution to the division of Cyprus in time for the beginning of the accession negotiations.
The General Affairs Council of 5 October 1998 pointed out again that the European Union's objective must remain the establishment of a federation of two communities and two zones based on a comprehensive political solution in compliance with the United Nations resolutions.
That political solution would then make it possible to implement the provisions of the accession agreement throughout the island.
As I said in my initial reply, progress towards accession and a just and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem would, of course, be mutually reinforcing.
At the same time, we have always confirmed that the European Union unreservedly supports the efforts to find a solution under the auspices of the United Nations.
The European Council also confirmed its support for the UN Secretary-General's efforts to bring about a comprehensive settlement in Cyprus, and particularly the endeavours of his special emissary to ease the tensions and bring about progress towards a just and lasting settlement.
The Council is also aware of the existence of a considerable number of electromagnetic and other hi-tech devices that can, either by design or as a side-effect, cause people physical or psychological damage.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for her answer.
When you talk about such things it is difficult to believe that they can happen but without monitoring or checks you cannot be quite sure that they do.
I believe it is difficult to say that there is no danger or threat there, without some sort of monitoring and assessment of the situation.
Now we are concerned mainly with European buildings in European countries, and the situation is quite different.
Having regard to the tradition of delegating European Parliament and Commission observers to other similar processes (Namibia and South Africa), what ways and means will the Council adopt in order to guarantee a constant presence on the occasion of the last decolonisation process on the African continent?
Very briefly, Mr White, you have the floor.
The Chair has taken this decision owing to the special circumstances that have arisen in this debate.
I ask you to reconsider, at your discretion, the right to give supplementary questions to those of us who have not tabled questions but have an interest in this subject and want to raise supplementary questions based on the answers we will receive from the Council.
Mr Smith, I am no longer going to give people the floor for points of order.
The large number of questions on Western Sahara reveals the importance Members of the European Parliament attach to this subject, while at the same time showing that it is an enormously complex subject, involving a great number of historical, political and humanitarian aspects.
Of course the Council is carefully monitoring developments in the region and is endeavouring to contribute towards finding a peaceful, comprehensive solution to this long-standing issue.
The Council fully endorses the peace plan accepted by both parties and approved by the Security Council, which involves the holding of a free, just and impartial referendum on self-determination for the people of Western Sahara.
At the recent 53rd meeting of the United Nations General Assembly on 13 October 1998, the European Union reaffirmed its full support for the United Nations plan.
It noted the progress made, for example the identification of more than 147 000 people in the identification process for participation in the referendum, while at the same time expressing its concern that the question of the three tribal groups has not yet been resolved.
Furthermore, the Union has paid tribute to the work of the United Nations mission for the referendum in Western Sahara, MINURSO, which will continue to play a decisive role in the peace process.
Meanwhile, the Council presidency is in close contact with the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, with a view in particular to considering possible EU support measures, which, so far at least, have not been determined in any detail.
I myself am Minister for Development Cooperation, and all I can say is that apart from the European Union's official programmes there are of course also the ECHO bilateral programmes.
We all know that there are still some obstacles in its way; once they have been overcome, we will gladly consider and also be in a position to propose a practical programme.
During the last General Assembly, I myself addressed this question in talks with the UN Secretary-General, whom I in fact know very well from my earlier post at the United Nations, and I also urged that the United Nations, the Secretary-General and, where appropriate, the special envoy James Baker should take joint action.
His report on that visit is now available and yesterday, on 15 December, it was debated in the Security Council.
Let me also say that after the identification process had come to a standstill some time ago because of the Moroccan-Sahrawi disagreement on the identification of tribes H41, H61 and J51 and J52 - who make up about 65 000 individuals - the UN Secretary-General put forward a compromise proposal, a kind of package.
In a letter and a memorandum addressed to the UN Secretary-General on 20 November this year, Morocco raised a number of questions on which it asked for clarification.
The extension of the MINURSO mandate to the end of January 1999 which the Secretary-General has now proposed is to be used for UN consultations with Morocco.
And I believe that James Baker must clearly intervene on this issue again.
The Austrian Presidency's answer naturally fails to make reference to the recommendation adopted by this very Parliament.
Bearing in mind that this recommendation is so old, it is all the more 'striking' that neither the conclusions of the recent Vienna European Council nor the strategy on external action it adopted made any reference whatsoever to the situation in Western Sahara.
I should like the President-in-Office to answer three questions.
First, will the Austrian Presidency pass on to the next Presidency of the Council of the Union, namely, the German Presidency, the concerns being voiced by the European Parliament in relation to the conflict in Western Sahara?
Mr President, Mr Carnero González, on the first question, it is quite clear that of course the Austrian Presidency is not the only one to discuss this important issue and, as I said, things do not always have to be done in public.
I am sure I can say the same for the German Presidency, because this is indeed a question that concerns us all very much and where we must finally see some progress.
We are talking about 15 countries here and you must all endeavour to further your commitment and participate more seriously in this process.
Mr President, Mrs García Arias, may I say that we certainly are concerning ourselves with this conflict.
I would like to read out the figures on the humanitarian aid that has already been provided for the Sahrawi refugees, because that needs saying too: on 1 March 1998, ECHO released another ECU 7.2 million, and on 2 October of the same year ECU 10 million.
The second point I wished to make is that my country, the country holding the presidency, now has a force of 260 soldiers standing by for deployment in the Tindof region in the run-up to the referendum, in order to prepare for the referendum there and then, of course, ensure a smooth transition.
So in principle I quite agree with you, but in cases where good mediators already exist - and I believe that James Baker was a good choice of personality and has achieved a great deal, which is also appreciated by the conflicting parties - we should primarily play a supportive role, which is what we are doing.
Mr President, Mrs Sierra González, I have in fact just discussed the humanitarian aid that is being allocated through ECHO and also by many countries on a bilateral basis.
But let me point out once again that the overall process for creating peace in the Sahara is taking place under the auspices of the United Nations and that at present it is within that framework that the Member States make their material as well as their political contribution to overcoming these difficult problems.
In any case, I can assure you that the European Union continues to be present in this part of the African continent, which has of course had special relations with Europe for centuries and which is of the greatest strategic importance to this continent.
That is what I have to say in reply.
The President-in-Office should be aware that when there is a barrage of questions like that, some of us feel bad about asking further questions, but I am sure that the President-in-Office will not have failed to notice that it is precisely through such questions that we were attempting to have a debate on the Sahara.
Morocco has always tried to prevent this referendum from taking place because what it really wants is to annex the Sahara.
That means that if this whole process does not move forward by the end of January then, as the UN Secretary-General proposes in his latest report: 'Should the prospects for completing the identification process remain uncertain by that time, it would be my intention to revert to the Security Council and to ask my personal envoy - James Baker - to reassess the situation and the viability of the mandate of MINURSO'.
So other political considerations will perhaps also have to be taken into account at that point, although it is too soon to do so today.
I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the numerous detailed replies and appreciate both the close contact maintained with the United Nations and the crucial role of James Baker.
But let me say that the UN Security Council deliberately only extends the mandate of the MINURSO operation on a very short-term basis, normally by only six to eight weeks, so that it can monitor the progress made in the peace process at regular intervals and thus exert a certain amount of pressure on Morocco and put it on the spot.
That forces the conflicting parties to continue their efforts to resolve the peace process and keeps them on their toes.
So I really do still believe that we must continue along this road and, as the UN Secretary-General says himself, if it turns out not to be viable by the end of January, then we will probably have to seek other political solutions, which will have to be put up for discussion again and would of course also have to be discussed in the Council.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, I am disappointed at your answer to my question.
You said that no measures had been taken and nor were any in prospect for the future.
I think we must plan for the referendum now - one year is not a very long time - and I hoped you would say that you had made provision for peace observers in the form of an EU contingent of 2 000 or 3 000 troops or of an infrastructure.
Mr President, Mr Telkämper, I fear you were not here earlier, when I explained that in fact Austria, which currently holds the presidency, has had a contingent of 260 troops on stand-by for the past year, with the approval indeed of Parliament, so that they could be deployed as quickly as possible - in fact six months before the referendum - and make optimum preparations for that referendum.
As I said in my first statement, I myself have had extremely close contacts with the UN Secretary-General on this question since the last General Assembly.
We considered whether we should conduct a joint mission with the United Nations and with James Baker.
It is too early to answer that question.
Thank you, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
I shall now close the discussion of this group of ten questions which have occupied 40 minutes of our Question Time.
Community measures in the cultural field come under Article 128 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
That means the cultural sphere is no exception to the rule that the Council can only act on a proposal from the Commission.
For 12 years I have been trying to make the Council and the Commission aware of this issue.
The Council could also take measures on its own initiative regarding the use of this paper, for example, for its records.
Thank you very much, Mr Valverde.
I hope that future election results will enable you to follow this matter as closely as before for a further five years, or at least allow you to see that it is successfully achieved.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, you have the floor.
Question No 17 by Karl Habsburg-Lothringen (H-1094/98) Subject: Implementation of the Dayton Agreement How does the Council assess the implementation of the Dayton Agreement hitherto?
I give the floor to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner to answer Mr Habsburg-Lothringen's question.
The essential political and economic institutions are now assuming concrete form.
The international community as a whole and the European Union in particular must, however, continue their efforts to bring about a genuinely lasting peace.
Peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina still has feet of clay and would, unfortunately, not hold fast without the current international support.
At present, Bosnia-Herzegovina is one of the most heavily supported countries in the world.
Bosnia-Herzegovina must therefore use the remaining time to prepare itself to survive without foreign aid and to meet the challenge of transforming the economy in such a way as to create jobs and raise the standard of living.
The Peace Implementation Conference is being held in Madrid on 15 and 16 of this month and will examine the progress made in implementing the peace agreement.
It will have determined what still needs to be done to ensure that peace is maintained without outside assistance.
The Peace Implementation Conference, the PIC, will no doubt use the next, decisive phase to encourage the return of refugees and exiles, to strengthen Bosnia-Herzegovina from within and without, and to establish solid relations between the institutions of Bosnia-Herzegovina and of Europe.
For the rest, the High Representative helped ensure that substantial progress was made in the Dayton peace process.
We must also highlight the positive role he plays as the final authority for interpreting the civil aspects of the agreement and as coordinator of the civil implementing measures.
Madam President-in-Office, thank you for your account of the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Of course the refugee problem is also closely bound up with the corresponding legislation, not just in Bosnia-Herzegovina but also in the neighbouring countries.
With reference to the countries that are co-signatories to the Dayton Accord - which also include Croatia - my second question is this: what do you think the situation in Croatia is at present, and what must Croatia do so that the PHARE programme can be fully implemented there again and so that Croatia is able to follow an orderly European course?
Mr President, Mr Habsburg-Lothringen, on your question about the legal situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, I have to say that unfortunately not everything was done that should have been done.
He said that the return home of Bosnian citizens, especially of course those from minority groups, is still being hampered by a lack of willingness to cooperate at all administrative levels and in particular by the generally poor security situation.
He also expressed disappointment at the lack of progress in this area and hoped to see substantial improvements in 1999.
On the question of Croatia and the PHARE programme, let me tell you that Croatia must fulfil the conditions laid down under the regional concept if it is to be fully eligible for the PHARE programme and if it is to be included in the negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement as a preliminary step towards a Europe agreement.
As I am sure you are aware, as early as April 1997 the Council adopted an overall strategy, what is known as the regional concept, for relations with the western Balkans, namely Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania.
The Council is monitoring the progress on fulfilment of these conditions on a regular basis, and adopted its most recent conclusions on the subject on 9 November.
I tend to believe that we should develop a kind of democratic, positive domino theory and stabilise one country after another.
If we want to stabilise Bosnia-Herzegovina, we must first stabilise Croatia, and as far as the PHARE programme and the trade and cooperation agreement are concerned we cannot rank it lower than, say, Albania.
Of course, that is also closely bound up with the question of what more can be done in Croatia.
Sadly, we have to say that it was only as a result of sustained international pressure that Croatia finally adopted an acceptable and comprehensive plan for the return of the refugees.
Regrettably, the international community also greeted President Tudjman's speech at the HDZ Congress of 21 February with strong criticism, deploring both its tone and content as clearly inconsistent with the undertakings under the Dayton Accord.
Thank you, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
Since we have now come to the end of the time set aside for questions to the Council, Questions Nos 18 to 45 will receive written answers.
I should also like to draw my colleagues' attention to Amendment No 58 relating to public access to official records.
Our position on this report will therefore depend on whether they are adopted or rejected by the House.
However, I must draw attention to the importance of Amendments Nos 35, 36 and 37, tabled by our colleagues Mrs Colombo Svevo and Mrs de Esteban Martin, on behalf of the PPE group.
In general, we support the amendments tabled by that group, as well as those tabled by the rapporteur.
Carlos, who we know was paid by Ceaucescu, was by no means innocent, no more than Bader and his gang.
I do not of course want to conduct an anti-abortion crusade here and now, but quite frankly I find it rather too much that the European Parliament goes so far as to deplore the fact that certain Member States forbid or merely limit information concerning voluntary termination of pregnancy, as stated in paragraph 56 of the report.
However, I feel that the balancing act undertaken by Mrs Schaffner deserves not only our respect, but also our support.
It is true that the obligation to respect the Geneva conventions and their additional protocols is extremely important.
Drawing up a report on human rights, which enables us to put our own house in order before giving lectures to the other nations of the world, is a valuable exercise.
Another issue is that of secularism and respect for religion.
The protection of the young, ladies and gentlemen - those of you who call for it - is in my view a human right.
Mr President, once again we are dealing with the annual European Parliament report on the respect for human rights in the Union, and I first of all welcome the fact that the report continues to consolidate social and economic rights, as well as cultural rights, as an integral part of fundamental rights.
With this in mind, I would like to draw attention to a contribution that our group made to the report in requesting that regional languages be recognised and promoted, and that the Member States ratify the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
We cannot forget that we are debating this annual report on the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is the indisputable framework of reference within which all national and international institutions and bodies should conduct their public action.
Nor do I want to forget the commendable work undertaken by the various non-governmental organisations - to which my colleague referred in the previous speech - in fighting for human rights to be established and respected in our societies.
The constant work of these organisations in criticising and making demands has contributed greatly to ensuring that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is better applied.
Finally, I would like to discuss a point that was included in the report on the initiative of our group, that is, the need to set up a high authority, which is independent from public authorities and which citizens can approach directly, that is responsible for ensuring that all of the security forces respect codes of ethics.
The existence of this high authority would mean that, in cases such as those that took place a few weeks ago in Melilla, where two local policemen were arrested, accused of raping a Moroccan woman, or in Toulouse, where a Maghrebi citizen was killed by the local police, the responsibility of the security forces could be better determined.
In my own country, Ireland, we have special criminal courts which have been condemned by the UN Human Rights Committee.
We have the situation in some European Union Member States where people can be detained for very long periods of time without being charged.
Everyone should respect international covenants on human rights and each Member State in the European Union has serious questions to answer as regards the application of law.
Half-way through our century, the Declaration of 1948 gave an answer, not so much in its articles as in the preamble: 'recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world'.
It is in accordance with the intellectual tradition of Europe that the European Parliament, despite all hostility even from its own ranks, will not allow itself to be deterred from pointing out the flaws in our democracy.
I therefore consider it to be particularly important that the report on human rights deals with the situation of refugees and foreigners, children and minority groups.
Nowadays, human rights are part of the diplomatic dialogue, but in the form of fundamental rights, such as the right to a fair trial, to protection of life and limb, the right to vote and to equality before the law.
Political rights such as democracy, freedom of expression, property rights and freedom of trade are preconditions for the development of enterprise, employment and well-being - goals we are all striving to achieve.
Mr President, if today we are discussing the annual reports on human rights in the context of the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, then it is not without good reason that the issue of improved institutional and legal protection of human rights within the European Union also features more prominently than ever on the agenda.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has admittedly brought about some progress in the legal protection of human rights within the European Union, as several people have mentioned today.
Article 13 in particular could represent a certain amount of progress despite all the procedural obstacles that it incorporates.
This is particularly upsetting and alarming as the Union is taking on more and more tasks that are particularly likely to affect fundamental rights, especially in the area of the third pillar, for example the development of a joint asylum and immigration policy, joint measures to combat organised crime, new monitoring procedures and EU-wide police and judicial cooperation.
Mr President, Commissioner, we fully agree on the need for the Member States to strengthen their provisions and practices in terms of the respect of human rights in the European Union.
Two positive points on two proposals: the proposal that 1999 should be the European Year for fighting violence against women, and the proposal to step up the fight against international networks and traffickers in clandestine immigration.
Finally, talking about particular cases of glasshouses, we hope that Portugal will stop contributing to the incidents of torture and inhuman treatment of people in prison or in police custody carried out by members of the police or armed forces.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am very honoured to be speaking to you today, as I think that the Council, the Commission and Parliament will all have to take important decisions on the subject that we are discussing.
Indeed, this subject is not incredibly popular.
If only some of them have the misfortune, or perhaps the fortune, to have a partner, one or two children, or elderly parents, that means that between one and a half and two million Europeans are directly affected, at this very moment, by prison conditions.
On this issue, I think that the meeting in the Commission, which was extremely interesting and lively, enabled us to reach a relative consensus.
The second aspect is the privatisation of institutions.
The institutional violence that comes with the deprivation of freedom is and must remain within the domain of the State.
Some countries have felt that it is a good idea to dissociate themselves from this responsibility and to delegate it to private companies.
There is no doubt that I am in favour of private enterprise, but this is a matter for the State, and it should not let go of it.
In any case, keeping it for the State is the noble thing to do.
The fact is that, despite 50 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the record of human rights in prisons in the countries of Europe is currently anything but respectable.
I must thank Mr Pradier most warmly and sincerely on behalf of my group for his report, and thank him too for his readiness to take on board our amendments.
If Member States already followed the recommendations of this committee and the Council of Europe and those listed in Pierre Pradier's report, that report would not have needed to be written and we would not have needed to be sitting here today.
Mr President, if we adopt this report today, the main reason will be its political foresight and its success in picking up on what is essential and setting aside rigid ideological considerations, so as to grasp the opportunity of having a report which rallies a broad consensus.
The citizens know, however, that good organisation of prisons, with transparency of sentencing, secure establishments and clear alternative sentences which are comprehensible to the general public, also forms part of this peaceful coexistence.
In view of the diversity - and also the positive changes - in judicial legislation, and out of concern for certain rights which are still being denied, for example the misuse of preventive detention and prison overcrowding in some countries, this report was intended to home in on some of the approaches already being followed in certain countries, bringing them to the attention of the others.
We could define it as an exercise in best practice, which neither impairs nor diminishes national sovereignty but gives the European Parliament a clear objective.
My second point, Pierre, is that we do not have two societies here, comprising those in prison and those on the outside.
The European people should be told once and for all that rehabilitating prisoners who are currently incarcerated, in order to reintegrate them into civilian life, benefits all of us, benefits society and helps to make society more fair and just.
Mr President, in its descriptive aspect this report has two sides.
On 15 August this year Portugal had a prison population of 14 592 including those sentenced, on remand or those who could not be classified.
The capacity of the 52 prisons in Portugal is only 10 763.
A strong effort is needed to achieve the rehabilitation of prisoners and particular attention should be paid to respect for human rights.
This is also outlined in the 1997 report on respect for human rights in the European Union.
This is important to ensure equal treatment of prisoners within the Union.
These possibilities for stronger cooperation between the Member States in the field of prison conditions are one important component for the achievement of a high level of safety within the area of freedom, security and justice that we all - Parliament, the Commission and the Council - now have to implement.
The Commission will consider this report very carefully in the context of its post-Amsterdam powers in this field.
The debate is closed.
In this vote on the directive on guarantees, Parliament has an opportunity to show how citizen-friendly it is.
The consumer can request repair, where possible or reasonable, or a replacement, where one is available.
I would therefore urge that Parliament should delete Article 3(5).
The Commission, Parliament and the Council aimed to achieve a minimum level of harmonisation of the consumer goods guarantee with this directive.
On one point, however, the Council seems to have forgotten this in its discussions.
The common position wants to allow Member States to provide that, in order to exercise his rights, the consumer must notify the seller of the lack of conformity within a period of two months of detecting it.
A Frenchman who is not familiar with the obligation to notify a fault in his own country, buys a product in Germany and for reasons of time or distance does not report the defect in time and tells the truth out of ignorance, forfeits all his rights.
We have already adopted Amendment No 25 several times in other directives.
But I can assure you of one thing: at first reading both the committee and Parliament ensured that a balance remained in place between buyers, sellers and manufacturers.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Annemarie Kuhn, whose last major report in Parliament this may well be.
However, it might also make some marginal improvements to what is now a fundamentally good piece of legislation, which has set a new balance in the relationship between producers and consumers.
The bulk of the amendments moved by the rapporteur do, within that margin, improve this directive.
I particularly commend those deleting sections relating to the consumer's obligation to notify any fault within two months, because there is a clear problem of practicability here; the renewal of guarantees for any goods supplied to replace faulty goods, because obviously the same conditions should apply; and the removal of Article 3(5) of the common position, which prevents the consumer having the contract of sale rescinded if a fault is minor, because a minor fault might be repeated time after time throughout the guarantee period.
I have rather more doubts with regard to the situation in the United Kingdom, about one or two of the other amendments, particularly those which allow a consumer to suspend instalment payments unilaterally in any circumstances, which may result in difficulties in some cases.
Our Amendment 34 on this matter, which I hope will be allowed, relates specifically to some provisions which are already in the common position.
I have some reservations about Article 3, the nub of the legislation, and Article 5.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our group does not think that we succeeded at the first reading in reaching a proper balance between the interests of the consumer on the one hand and that of sellers and manufacturers on the other.
We think our text indicates a clear hierarchy and is expressed in clearer language.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Green Group would have liked to establish even broader consumer protection at first reading.
We should focus on the rights of European consumers, instead of concentrating on how the EU can stimulate people's willingness to make purchases when they visit other Member States.
So in this draft directive the Commission has sought to harmonise the nature of the guarantee offered in all Member States and consumer rights under that guarantee.
Neither the Commission nor the Council of Ministers has thought through the implications of extending a minimum one-year guarantee to second-hand goods.
Finally, the directive and the rapporteur show a touching faith in human nature.
This is true more than ever now that a large-scale market of 370 million consumers is being launched.
In the final analysis, consumers are calling for greater certainty and more guarantees, and these are precisely the issues addressed in the document under discussion today.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive now being presented for second reading is particularly important for the operation of the single market and the protection of consumers.
In this context, I would like briefly to clarify the position which the Commission took at the Council meeting on consumer affairs in April this year with regard to the Council's common position.
The most significant positive points include a harmonisation of the concept of 'a lack of conformity of the goods with the contract', a workable system of consumer rights adapted to the current market situation, a single guarantee period of two years, a change in the burden of proof, and the first provisions on commercial guarantees which ensure consumers some degree of protection in connection with matters of openness.
It is difficult to square this provision with the idea of a common minimum level of consumer protection.
As a result of this position, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 7, 8, 9, 19, 20, 24 and 25, as well as Amendment No 26, subject to a change of wording.
The Commission is also able to accept Amendment No 15 with a minor alteration to take account of the problem raised by the Council.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 1 in its present form, and proposes to turn it into a recital reflecting the substance of the new Article 153, which replaces the previous Article 129a of the Treaty.
Among the changes which are acceptable to the Commission, I would like to emphasise the importance of Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 20, which was also underlined in the debate here this evening.
They remove the option for Member States to impose an obligation to notify on consumers as a condition for being able to exercise their rights.
I therefore think there is a good chance that this proposal will be adopted in the very near future, so that European consumers can be guaranteed a number of appropriate and necessary rights.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, perhaps one of the greatest challenges of the next few years for the world and for the European Union is to reduce emissions of gases that affect the climate.
It also recalls the commitment made in Kyoto: an 8 % reduction in emissions of 6 greenhouse gases between 2008 and 2012.
Taking into account that CO2 emissions from passenger cars account for 50 % of CO2 emissions from the transport sector and 12 % of all CO2 emissions in the European Union, we should remember that the 1996 Council position already proposed the reduction of CO2 emissions by 2005 or by 2010 at the latest, to 120 g/km.
The document presented by the Commission states that, at present, CO2 emissions are at a level of 170 g/km, while Eurostat figures show a level of at least 186 g/km.
The report points out the need for fiscal incentives, fuel economy and labelling and consumer information, which we feel is essential, and which is also covered by another report that was being debated at the same time, for which Mr Fitzsimons was the rapporteur.
It expresses concern that an evaluation is not guaranteed before 2003 and therefore proposes bringing it forward a little.
The report considers the problems that could be presented in the future by cars that use electricity and other fuels such as gas, and we see that in the proposal, the Commission considers the possibility of including those cars in the future.
The representative from the Commission stated clearly in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that it was not going to be possible to bring forward the deadlines, but as there are always delays in meeting them, we insisted that they should be brought forward a little.
All in all, Commissioner, we realise the difficulties that the Council and the Commission may have in accepting some of our amendments, but you are well aware, Commissioner, that Parliament always insists on its political proposals and its proposals to bring forward deadlines, as it knows very well that it is possible that there will be delays if it does not do so.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is nice that we can discuss this legislation in such an intimate context.
I believe that it must be clear from the outset that there is a fine or a driving ban or similar for driving at a speed of over 50 km/h.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone who is interested in the health of the environment that the Kyoto Protocol established essential framework conditions for curbing CO2 emissions.
But I shall also begin on his behalf by commending the rapporteur, who has proposed some important amendments on behalf of the committee.
The Liberal Group has always been uneasy, not to say unhappy, about the fact that we have a voluntary agreement between the European Commission and the vehicle industry, but now that we have it, the least we can do is ensure that it is properly monitored.
The voluntary agreement entails a reduction in emissions to 140 g of CO2 per km in 2008.
Parliament has always believed that it should be 90 g per km in order to be able to meet the Kyoto targets.
At most this is a reduction of 25 %, but much more is needed when, at the same time, we know the greatest challenge for the environment in the coming years will be the development of transport.
The Commission agrees with several of the constructive amendments which the committee has tabled.
These are the parts of Amendments Nos 9 to 26 and 36 to 45 aimed at including commercial vehicles in the monitoring scheme.
We appreciate that Amendments Nos 47 and 48 seek to strengthen the Commission's role by ensuring that Member States provide us with reliable data.
The dates the Commission has proposed already give the Member States very little time to implement the decision.
If the agreement had been based on a percentage reduction, a reference year would have been of crucial importance.
On the other hand, I would like to reassure Parliament that the progress of the agreement will be closely followed every year.
I had the opportunity to discuss this not so very long ago, in a very lively fashion, I might add, with the Committee on the Environment.
For similar reasons, the Commission is also unable to accept the part of Amendment No 6 which would entail the Commission beginning the technical work with a view to presenting a legislative proposal.
We also had the opportunity to discuss that part in depth at the same meeting.
But to sum up, it may be said, Mr President, that the Commission is able to support a number of the proposed amendments, and that we are of course very pleased that in general our proposal has been positively received by the rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment.
Commissioner, I would like to ask a question concerning light commercial vehicles.
Incidentally, in the Auto-oil legislation, a recital in the new Directive 98/69 calls for just this.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this measure which we are looking at now must also be seen in the context of the commitment which the Union gave in Kyoto to cut emissions of CO2 and five other greenhouse gases by 8 % from 1990 levels in the period 2008 to 2012.
On 8 December, the Environment Committee unanimously approved my draft report with one or two valuable additions by my fellow committee members.
Our proposals are designed to make the system of information to consumers even clearer, better and more efficient.
Sweden, where an information system has been mandatory for years, recently gave up displaying fuel costs.
Another important proposal concerns the list of the ten most energy-efficient cars in the fuel consumption guide.
I favour having a top-ten list for each category, because fuel economy will only influence the consumer to choose another car in the same category of car fulfilling the same function; it will never induce intending purchasers of a large car or station wagon to buy a mini car or a smart car, for example.
I hope that these proposals will be acceptable to everyone so that this directive can enter into force on 1 January 2000 as planned.
Mr President, Commissioner, the directive we discussed earlier refers once again to the voluntary undertaking by the automobile industry to reduce CO2 emissions by technical measures.
What we are now discussing has more to do with a change in consumer behaviour, in other words additional measures.
I believe that, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, more information should of course be provided in order to ensure honesty, because the test cycle, which unfortunately does not exist yet for light commercial vehicles, does not take into account any extra equipment such as air conditioning or pre-heating systems, which may increase fuel consumption by as much as 20 %.
I also think that, in order to make things a little more transparent, we should authorise and demand that more information should be available on this issue via the Internet, so that a consumer who wants to buy a new car can find out simply by sitting at his PC at home that a certain car with extra equipment has a certain level of fuel consumption, and from this he will know the level of CO2 emissions.
In addition, this consumer label will help to support the vehicle manufacturers' efforts.
Amendments Nos 9, 12, 14, the first part of 19 and the first part of 23 are acceptable in principle and, lastly, Amendment No 17 is acceptable as far as the effect of extra equipment is concerned.
The Commission is aware that in many Member States diesel is taxed less heavily than petrol, but Member States are free to include different taxes in the cost figure, and we are currently holding talks with the Council about a breakdown of this in the directive itself.
In addition, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 8.
Then there are the parts of Amendments Nos 15, 18, 24 and 28 which deal with a simplification of the format in which fuel consumption should be shown, in other words that it should always be given in litres per 100 km and not in either litres per 100 km or km per litre.
The changes of wording in Amendments Nos 17 and 25 are not acceptable.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ozone layer, which protects people, animals and plants on earth from harmful ultraviolet rays from the atmosphere, has been depleted by 10 % since measurements began in the early 1980s, although in the northern hemisphere over Scandinavia and Siberia depletion is up to 45 %.
In my report I have made some amendments to the Commission's proposals because I think that in certain areas production can be halted even more quickly, alternative substances are available, and it is necessary to have a certain degree of standardisation in halting production so that there are not several different deadlines for individual product ranges.
Even small amounts, such as 20 or 50 litres of CFCs, are enough to keep these old installations in operation for a number of years, and this is why illegal trade in CFCs takes place.
I have proposed a certain transitional period so that in particular the developing countries, which under the Montreal Protocol can continue to use HCFCs for a longer time than the European Union, do not have to develop their own industries or halt production at the same time as us, but are allowed to use new substances and build up significantly better new industries by using new substitutes from the outset.
Following discussions and votes in committee, a compromise was found in this area to allow the southern Member States to use methyl bromide for longer in soil fumigation.
I should also like to congratulate Mrs Graenitz on the admirable and skilful way in which she has dealt with this difficult and highly technical subject and on the amendments she has proposed, which include a further tightening-up of the Commission's proposal.
There is one particular issue which I should like to raise in this context.
The result is nevertheless a very important one.
But we as Austrians are having to learn the hard way in the European Union that things do not always go the way we want.
The present report recognises the problem of depletion of the ozone layer and is therefore very clearly in favour of halting the production and use of the substances that cause it.
For this reason I have tried to play my part in reaching a compromise with my colleagues from the southern Member States on the use of methyl bromide in agriculture.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has put into the report and say that our group is voting in favour of the amendments which tighten up the legislation.
Like the rapporteur, I would also have thought it was a good idea, but like my group, I am now in favour of having tougher regulations.
We think methyl bromide can already be replaced now.
No doubt it would be possible to apply this to numerous directives that deal with different chemicals, not with a view to harmonisation, but to facilitate more progressive legislation in various countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am disappointed in this report.
The European Parliament has allowed itself to be controlled by short-sighted, national lobbies, and this is highly regrettable.
Mr President, the Commission proposal on substances that deplete the ozone layer contains a serious loophole which some of us have discovered.
A multinational company which runs a factory in my home country, Luxembourg, is allowed to continue to use CFC-11 as a solvent in an industrial process, although a substitute which does not deplete the ozone layer exists and has been used since 1995 in a second production line of the same company.
For almost 15 years Du Pont de Nemours has used CFC-11 as a solvent to produce a polyurethane fleece.
The annual emissions have been, on average, 15 tonnes of CFC-11, which is quite substantial.
Du Pont de Nemours now calls its solvent a processing agent but that is just a trick to allow them to continue to use CFC-11.
My Group has asked for a split vote on the last paragraph of Annex VI of the proposal, which defines a list of processes where the use of CFC-11 may still be permitted as a processing agent.
The only exemption which we regard as justified is for 'critical uses', for example CFCs in inhalers or chemical precursors for pharmaceuticals.
So the Commission cannot go as far as the European Parliament might like at the present moment in some areas.
Nonetheless, I hope to be able to return to at least some of the proposals at a later point in the procedure.
Against this background, I can reveal that the Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 14, 21, 22, 23 and 28 in full and Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 19, 25, 25, 26, 27 and 30 in principle.
We can accept most of them, but in our opinion Amendment No 20 would lead to an overlapping with existing procedures and is therefore superfluous.
As far as the phasing-out of methyl bromide is concerned, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 5 because the ban on critical use exemptions in agriculture after the year 2006 would be contrary to the Montreal Protocol.
And finally, there are Amendments Nos 32 and 33 which are aimed at postponing the phasing-out of methyl bromide until 2005 in Member States with special climatic conditions.
Controlling the production of HCFCs is part of the Community's ozone policy.
The Commission has proposed that the situation should be reviewed by the year 2002 to see whether developments in global patterns of consumption allow further restrictions to be introduced.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 16 on prohibiting the sale of second-hand equipment containing HCFCs, because that would increase the probability of illegal disposal and the release into the atmosphere of HCFCs.
Amendments Nos 17 and 29 are aimed at prohibiting the production of products containing HCFCs for export to countries where their use is still permitted.
Here we are aware that excessively restrictive legislation in the Community could easily lead to production facilities being located elsewhere.
The Commission understands the aim of Amendment No 18, but it would conflict with the exemption for special cases in Article 5(6).
Amendment No 15 is aimed at introducing a new exemption, whereby HCFCs would be allowed to replace halons for fire protection purposes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.)
