Thank you, Mr Posselt.
Thank you very much, Mr Habsburg.
It was adopted in Luxembourg during the June meeting, and the Bureau has simply adopted the necessary measures to implement the Luxembourg agreement. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Yesterday in Oslo the international community approved an agreement to prohibit manufacture and storage of and trade in anti-personnel mines.
Every year weapons of this type kill or maim more than 25, 000 people, mostly civilians.
I should like to thank the Member States of our Union for the efforts they have made to achieve this result.
This result will not compensate for the suffering which these weapons have already caused.
But every time the international community achieves this sort of agreement, the world is a slightly better place.
In this free area, Mr President, there is more freedom for criminals than there are guarantees that crime will be tracked down.
The same is true of the demonstrations held in Spain after the murder of a town councillor in Ermua by the terrorist group ETA.
Mr President, I have said there are many frustrations, and that is the most important thing to stress about this subject.
Nevertheless, we must welcome this agreement as one step towards achieving that area of freedom, security and justice - a step which does not go far enough and still leaves much to be desired, but which is at least one more step in the right direction.
Then why have we said that this is a step forward?
Because it simplifies the extradition conditions as compared with the 1957 convention, which was established under the auspices of the Council of Europe, rather than between the Member States of the European Union.
Because of the extent of political integration which has been achieved and the degree of mutual trust between the existing legal systems, people are demanding that a solution should be found within the European Union, rather than in external fora such as the Council of Europe.
The second thing is that a maximum time limit for these procedures is not set, as was done in the 1995 agreement on voluntary extradition (which furthermore was on a European Union basis).
The European Union will be an internal market, a union for customs purposes, but never a true union of free citizens defending the same interests.
Finally, Mr President, the greatest criticism which we in this House must level at this convention is that it does not give the Court of Justice in Luxembourg any powers at all, not even the slightest, rudimentary powers granted by other agreements such as the Europol agreement.
Mr President, my group is going to ask for a vote in favour of this report, with the single condition that paragraph 13 should not be approved, asking the Member States' Parliaments not to ratify the agreement until powers are granted to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
This Parliament has always been an advocate for two objectives: the intensification of cooperation in Europe, and the creation of a European democracy with basic and civil rights.
I appeal to you, therefore, to support this resolution - which is also supported in the main by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs - for minimum guarantees in extradition procedures.
I want to say quite clearly on behalf of my group that if we are a Community of democratic constitutional states, and if each Member State only acknowledges in another that the constitution it practises and uses accords with basic democratic principles, then there can be no protection against political crimes within the European Union.
Speaking on behalf of my group, I join her in welcoming the substantial progress contained in this convention.
In a common borderless market, improving legal cooperation in penal law is essential to step up the fight against organized crime and terrorism.
The approval of paragraph 13 of the report, originating from the adoption of Mrs Roth's amendment, will be the cornerstone of my group's support for this report.
Mr President, I feel honoured by the presence of Commissioner Fischler, who knows a lot about agriculture.
But I do discreetly wonder where Commissioner Gradin is today.
The fact that terrorists will be extradited more easily, or rather with less difficulty, is a good thing and all in all this is a step on the way to the European legal area on which we are all working, at least the majority of this House.
The Treaty of Amsterdam did do something about this, but it should still be improved afterwards.
Mr President, the extradition convention between Member States of the European Union, with which we are concerned today, can represent a step forward in achieving that European legal and judicial area which, with the necessary transparency and democratic guarantees, should complete and extend the building of economic Europe, as has already been said here.
Finally, it is important to work towards an automatic extradition procedure within the framework of an area of freedom, security and law, in order to achieve a European legal and judicial continuum, which continues to respect basic rights and democratic control, and maintains the legal nature of the proceedings, without damaging people's rights to defence.
That is a step that no parliament in the world which is committed to constitutional principles can permit.
Ladies and gentlemen, the extradition convention between the Member States of the European Union before us, which was passed by the Council on 27 September last year, is essentially to be welcomed.
Legal security is also the point when we talk about the relationships between extradition and asylum law in the European Union.
I am quite sure that no state can be expected to make an extradition to another Member State which has either annulled parts of this convention for itself by using article 15 of the EMRR, or where human rights violations are known to occur in police custody or in prison.
As everyone knows, I am in favour of the European legal area, but I also believe that, without a fundamental charter of individual rights, extradition is of course one of the guarantees for individuals.
There was a case in Sweden a few years ago which attracted a lot of attention when France requested the extradition of an Algerian citizen to France.
My colleagues have already mentioned the essential reasons, which are obvious to all the citizens, 80 % of whom state security as their number one concern.
Thirdly, because I too am intensely concerned about the guarantee issue and I think we should all be, because it affects everyone, I want to mention an innovation in the Treaty of Amsterdam: article F calls for the sanctions against Member States which violate human rights.
Mr President, I sincerely believe that this extradition convention is a valid instrument to achieve something which this Parliament has long called for and sought to achieve; to make an area of freedom - freedom of movement - in Europe compatible with the security and protection of its people.
It only remains for me to say, as so many colleagues have done, that I hope in the future, as well as congratulating ourselves on the content and wording of one of this Parliament's reports, we may also go away satisfied and congratulate ourselves that it is truly functional and useful.
Thank you very much, Mrs Terrón.
The European extradition convention signed on 26 September 1996 contains a range of clearly defined basic articles, which include conspiracy to commit a crime, political crimes and the extradition of one's own citizens.
From these articles it is clear that the Member States are determined to proceed jointly against organized crime and terrorism.
At the same time the convention expresses the confidence that all Member States honour and utilize human rights within their penal systems.
I also see in this respect a certain contradiction in points 7 and 13 of the resolution.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, 16.5 million small and medium-sized enterprises with 110 million workers in the European Union: these figures highlight the economic and social importance of this segment of European business.
The fourth annual report of the European Observatory for SMEs provides an extensive and valuable overview of SMEs and the craft sector in all the Member States of the Union.
The 1996 report includes two in-depth thematic studies on "women and SMEs' and "cooperatives, mutuals and non-profit organizations' .
In the European Union of the twelve, in 1993, 20 to 30 % of all the enterprises were managed by women and 25 to 30 % of all new enterprises were started by women, with assisting spouses playing an important role.
At the present time it is estimated that 60 to 80 per cent of assisting spouses work in the small and medium-sized business sector.
For assisting spouses the main problems lie in the fields of social protection, legal status and matrimonial, tax and company law.
As far as cooperatives, mutuals, associations and foundations are concerned, they account for at least 6.5 % of the number of private enterprises, and thus represent a factor in the European economy which is not negligible.
In particular, the high level of inheritance and gift taxes is an important factor inhibiting business transfer in several European countries, so the possibility of reducing or eliminating these taxes should be taken into consideration.
Other important aspects are financing and training, which are also dealt with in the fourth annual report.
As regards financing, the positive experience of financial insurance provided by the mutual guarantee schemes and loan guarantee schemes in the United States show that these instruments can and should be used on a larger scale in Europe, to tackle the grave financing problems facing small and medium-sized firms.
The fiscal environment also plays an important role in the performance of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, the fourth report thus analyzes a large number of areas which are very important to the performance of SMEs.
And we need to remember that, without them, the economy and employment in Europe could be profoundly and severely disturbed.
Mr Torres Couto identifies certain problem areas such as the transfer of enterprises, where 1.5 million SMEs are at risk.
A second problem area is financing SMEs.
I speak as a son and a brother of three women in my family who have successfully run or participated in the running of small businesses.
Indeed, I would argue that in these circumstances we need to differentially favour small businesses and their workers through the tax system, especially to avoid penalizing women workers.
The report that we are discussing this morning was unanimously approved in the Committee on Economic Affairs and it goes without saying that we wall also support it in this House.
But the studies that are included in the more specific part must also continue to be carried out on a regular basis.
I also hope, and I will close here Mr President, that the Commission will continue to support this useful initiative and I would have liked to know from the Commission what the specific future plans for the Observatory are.
I am pleased that the fourth annual report devotes a full study to women and small and medium-sized enterprises.
The rapporteur rightly states that we regret this blocking.
The European Commission will shortly come up with a new proposal: the joint European venture.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from all the evidence, attention is being paid to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The report by Mr Torres Couto, whom I congratulate, is positive in its approach, and I want to mention the way it highlights cooperatives and emphasizes the role of women in the survival and revitalization of SMEs.
It is true that it is not a report dealing with all the problems of SMEs, only with the fourth annual report of the European Observatory, but I think it could have gone much further, even given its modest objective, and dealt in greater depth with the financing question.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the speakers and identify with what they have said about the importance of this area.
I would like to stress the importance of the very small enterprises of under 10, which is what I am used to in my type of area - the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
Let us beg our governments to stop blocking ELISE.
Member States can promote the transfer of undertakings - and thereby safeguard jobs - by adapting their tax legislation.
At the informal Environment Council in Amsterdam on 18 April last, it was concluded that the SME, apart from being a driving force behind jobs, is also an important cause of environmental pollution.
Mr President, the fourth annual report of the European Observatory for small and mediumsized enterprises is an important subject of debate, providing a snapshot of the position in crafts and small and medium-sized firms and appropriate measures for effective development which can contribute to the creation of jobs.
I think the importance of small and medium-sized and craft businesses in the European economy and in European society is now unanimously recognized so it is unnecessary to expand further on that issue.
The subject of small and medium-sized and craft enterprises should be the focus of the Employment Summit on 21 and 22 November.
Only small and medium-sized firms can realistically make a contribution to improving employment levels in Europe and it would make a mockery of the summit to concentrate on other sectors and overlook this one.
For example, in Finland many major companies have their origins in co-operative movements.
I think point 18 of the report is particularly important, where it indicates reduction of corporation tax on undistributed profits as an instrument for increased employment.
The state could motivate the entrepreneur to internal investment oriented towards growth and innovation, and thus improve Europe as an economic centre.
When one sees that in 1992 there was an average of seven employees per business, and in 1995 it was six, then one can understand that the small firms are actually the main pillar of the economy and also offer employment security: they do not work a hire and fire policy during economic swings, but prefer one of partnership because they are all known to one another.
One third of entrepreneurs in these small firms is over 50, which corresponds to about 6.3 million work places in Europe.
The report comes to the conclusion that completion of the internal market has so far had positive results on economic growth in Europe, whereby there has been strong growth in output in particular, and considerable increase in productivity.
The report also emphasises that those businesses which have most profited from the internal market are mainly small and medium-sized ones, and this type of concern demonstrates the greatest potential for jobs dependent on growth.
Firstly, the importance of women to small and medium-sized businesses, and the need for measures to encourage female entrepreneurs and assisting spouses.
At the summits in Essen and Madrid the important role played by women in the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the creation of new jobs and the competitiveness of the European economy were confirmed.
For the first time the Observatory's network of small and medium-sized businesses has given this group priority consideration, because they contribute 5 % to employment and constitute 6 % of private businesses.
The increasingly important role of the social economy in the European Union is clear from the most recent Commission communication, which aims at making the role of associations and foundations in Europe better known.
And thirdly, the importance of encouraging entrepreneurial spirit as an important element for the existence and growth of small and medium-sized businesses.
The Commission realises that the construction of a dynamic business culture is of very special importance to the creation of jobs and strengthening of competitiveness in Europe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today, at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, the background to this report, recommending a marketing and promotion campaign for European beef and veal, is of course the steep decline in the consumption of beef and veal since BSE emerged over 10 years ago.
If more beef and veal is consumed within the EU and more exported to third countries, a great deal of public money can be saved in the long term and the European beef market will again be able to achieve some kind of equilibrium between supply and demand.
If we are to persuade Europe's consumers to eat more beef and veal and to sell more beef outside the EU, we must ensure that sales are increased, not because of clever marketing, but because purchasers have wellfounded confidence in the quality of the product.
This is something on which this House can unite today in passing on its opinion to the Commission and to the Council.
Mr President, on this occasion the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has recommended that the legal basis of article 43 alone should be contested, and that there should be a proposal that the legal basis of draft b) of the first paragraph of article 129a should be added to the basis of article 43, on an equal footing.
It is absolutely true, Mr President, that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and this House are both aware that traditionally the appropriate legal basis for any regulation or action in the agriculture area is article 43, to the exclusion of all others.
And that the jurisprudence of the Court has regularly established that the reason for this is not just that article 43 represents a lex specialis as regards any other legal basis which could be employed, but also because in article 43 - with recourse only to article 43, also in agreement with the Court's jurisprudence - all the other legal interests are taken into account, such as the protection of health or consumers.
Nevertheless, Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights thinks that, for the second time, the traditional approach to this legal basis should be changed.
The regulation that we are debating, together with two or three other regulations that we have debated previously, is seeking to reestablish consumer confidence in a market that has collapsed, and the attempt to reestablish consumer confidence is based, among other things, on labelling.
I do not think such an important regulation can be put back to tomorrow morning, when there is only one report on the agenda with the likelihood that there will be very few of us here to vote indeed.
Because the new identification regulation is a Community regulation, I am quite sure that the information and advertising measures for the regulation must be exceptionally financed entirely by the Community.
For that reason the amendment you have so carefully worked out can be only partially taken into consideration if its wording is altered accordingly.
In addition, Amendment No 13 in its current form cannot be accepted, because of the danger that traceability would not then be possible.
Amendments Nos 6, 10, 16 and the second sentence of No 17 on support for seals or marks of quality also cannot be accepted.
The proposal itself already contains rules for their use under conditions laid down by the Community.
Amendment No 18 concerns amendments that were not accepted, and so it must also be rejected.
Mr President, we have here a particular situation that you have not appreciated, whereby we have interrupted a speech, but Mr Fischler is unable to be present this evening.
As a result I ask once more if the financing mentioned in Amendments Nos 18 and 22, namely the acceptance of 100 % of the costs incurred by the industry for informing about the introduction of labels, will be reduced.
I have pointed out that, in view of the facts and the experience we have had with earlier actions in this context, we are prepared to finance this activity 100 % within the internal market.
But that has nothing to do with direct marketing.
Mr President, would you please note that I am now here, that I signed in this morning and that in the meantime I have been in my office, that I picked up some letters there and that I have now come here by bicycle, for which no facilities have been provided by the Bureau.
Mr Tomlinson, thank you for the notice of the question.
I would like to add a few words to the final sentence of Amendment No 13.
It is the original.
I shall therefore read out the Spanish text of the last two lines. ' ...y asegure el mantenimiento de las producciones europeas y ACP de plátanos y las producciones fair-trade de plátanos' . (Parliament rejected the oral amendment) (Parliament rejected the amendment) Mr President, I am beginning to get irritated.
I want the title to make it clear that it is the G7 proposal for the completion of the Khmelnitsky 2 and Rovno 4 nuclear reactors in Ukraine. (Parliament agreed to the oral amendment) (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Joint motion for a resolution on the closure of Chernobyl nuclear power plant by 2000 and completion of Khmelnitsky and Rovno 4 nuclear reactors in Ukraine I should like to introduce the oral amendment, after which we will vote again, even though we actually know better.
Finally, I consider Amendment No 6 proposed by the Group of the European People's Party impossible to support.
I would like to pay tribute to the work of our colleague and I subscribe to the amendments that he proposes to add to the initial text of the Commission.
Without doubt we will have to consider restrictive and repressive measures in this sensitive and complex environmental matter.
As politicians we must be able to guarantee for present and future generations an improvement in their living conditions without destroying economic growth and jobs, and we must equally stop hiding behind claims that we nothing can be done.
As everybody knows, carbon dioxide (CO2 ) is the commonest greenhouse gas and contributes 65 % of global warming.
The Commission's new proposal is a step in this direction, and will therefore have my vote.
There continues to be a lack of political will to take action in this area on the part of some Member States.
Although this may at first glance seem to be simply a technical measure, the smooth operation of monitoring measures and exchange of information on greenhouse gas emissions is an essential tool in our battle against global warming, and I urge the Commission and the Council to agree to the improvements in this proposal which Parliament has carried in its votes today.
WTO panel on bananas Mr President, the World Trade Organisation is about to declare the Community system of banana import licences incompatible with the rules of free trade, at least as they interpret them.
Mr President, with my colleagues of the Europe of Nations group I voted in support of the common resolution on the position of the WTO panel concerning the banana industry; this resolution was adopted by 286 votes in favour, 124 against with 14 abstentions.
Hope lies in the fact that our colleagues, who in this particular matter are aware of the problems with the GATT and WTO, see the difficulties in far more general terms, in the way we have always condemned, as did our late president Jimmy Goldsmith.
Free trade is an important instrument for ensuring that, in the long term, all the banana producing countries concerned will be able to function as equals in the global market.
Community and ACP bananas only represent 30 % of our consumption and cannot compete with bananas from the dollar zone which are produced in Latin America by American multinationals.
It is important to protect the economy and stability of producers in overseas countries, where wages and social charges match those in the European Union.
Nuclear power plants in Ukraine Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Green Party voted against the joint resolution because we have not progressed a single step with this resolution as far as the decisive subject is concerned, namely the phased ending of nuclear energy.
Not only have the most serious doubts on safety been ignored, but also the fact that energy from nuclear sources is quite unnecessary in the Ukraine, and that these reactors represent an economic risk.
The Commission has also contracted a study and up to now it has refused to put this at Parliament's disposal.
Umberto Scapagnini's question on the closure of Chernobyl and the completion of the Khmelnitsky 2 et Rovno 4 reactors deserves our full attention.
Moreover, the future also requires that we think about alternative solutions to try and safeguard our already damaged environment and our safety from all aspects.
We are also in favour of the Commission making its position and future policy on nuclear safety clear, and of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development declaring its position.
But in this resolution it is not even clear that the proposers are against the construction of new nuclear power stations.
Instead, to a large extent the Commission is encouraging the building of new reactors, Khmelnitsky 2 and Rovno 4, in Ukraine.
Against this background, I have today voted no to the European Parliament's resolution on this issue.
The current situation is inconsistent and the Europe of Nations group is also urging the governments of Member States assembled within the Council to take steps to impose a total ban on imports.
Situation in Algeria We voted in favour of the resolution on Algeria presented after a compromise between several political groups in Parliament.
However, we believe that the resolution could be clearer in a sharp criticism of both the Islamic fundamentalist terrorist groups' dreadful outrages and lack of respect for human dignity and the Algerian government's crimes against democracy and human rights.
The Group Union for Europe regrets the fact that it was unable to join in the vote on the common resolution on the situation in Algeria.
Indeed, while it is urgent to condemn and deplore the unspeakable massacres perpetrated against the Algerian people by groups of terrorists, it should also be mentioned that this country has recently held democratic elections which have enabled all sections of Algerian society to be represented in the country's parliament and government.
Our assembly has always had relations with the representatives of the Algerian people through its interparliamentary delegation.
Moorhouse report (A4-259/97) Faced with the problems raised by the creation of balanced economic relations between the European Union and Japan, it was desirable to evaluate these ties.
Regarding the current state of these relations, I share the opinion of the committee's rapporteur.
However, we believe that the report only concentrates on economics and trade without showing any interest at all in important areas such as culture and the environment.
Garosci report (A4-254/97) The Commission Green Paper and the rapporteur recognize that the commercial sector is the second largest employer in the European Union, since it employs more than 22 million people and concerns 35 % of the total number of businesses, most of which are small and medium-sized businesses.
At the same time rules and regulations need to be laid down to prevent the unchecked activity of large multinational companies, large-scale mergers, buy outs, and the creation of monopolies in the commercial sector.
Twenty-two million people across the EU work in commerce as part of the wider tertiary sector which is outperforming other parts of the European economy.
The Commission should take up the idea of looking for an international answer to this question.
It examines the structure and development of the commerce and distribution sector, the second largest economic activity in the Union, employing 22 million people - 16 per cent of the total labour force - in about 4.5 million firms.
Vocational training also allows even small and medium-sized firms and micro-businesses to keep up with the growth process in the sector, driving forward the creation of SMEs linked together in cross-border commerce, in line with the principle of economic and social cohesion which the Commission must support with concrete measures through the structural funds and innovative projects.
Palacio Vallelersundi report (A4-265/97)- Situation in Algeria Mr President, the convention on extradition between Member States of the European Union which reconciles the general definitions and principles of this procedure in the various countries was concluded within a short time frame according to a purely inter-governmental method.
In reality, when a given need, such as in the area of security, is strongly felt by members, the intergovernmental method works very well.
Secondly, I believe that we should seek a procedure to ensure more effective monitoring of the agreement by national parliaments, as already proposed by the Europe of Nations Group.
I voted against because the reference to Portugal is factually wrong.
The recent constitutional review carried out in Portugal maintains this prohibition, rightly in my opinion.
The protocol of the Amsterdam Treaty on this matter of extradition seems to me to resolve the matter satisfactorily in the context of progressive construction of an area of freedom and justice.
We have chosen to abstain from voting on this report.
The report also supports the restrictions on the right of asylum found in the Amsterdam Treaty, which we find unacceptable.
We have therefore voted no to the report.
The vote against paragraph 11 of the Palacio Vallelersundi report is based on respect for the "constitutional identity' of Member States, a principle for which there is a special proviso both in the Treaty on European Union and long before that in Community law and precedent.
Portugal was the first country to abolish the death penalty and whole life imprisonment.
The text of paragraph 11 is also outdated in relation to Portugal since, in the case of whole life imprisonment or sentences of indeterminate length, the recent constitutional review allows extradition subject to the existence of reciprocal mechanisms guaranteeing that such sentences will not be effectively applied or carried out.
Thank you very much, Mr Wijsenbeek.
Shortly before lunch Mr Tomlinson raised a question about the resolution on Ethiopia.
Mr Tomlinson, it appears to me that there are two problems here.
If you do not like this, then you should vote against it.
The solution is to vote against it if you do not like it or you could put this as an oral amendment if everybody accepts that but I am afraid some will object to it.
Once again these hopes were destroyed - hopes that the 23-year-old partition of Cyprus, and the Turkish occupation since 1974 of 37 % of Cypriot territory, might be ended in favour of a solution that would make possible the peaceful co-existence of Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
The European Union's resolutions are clear.
Membership talks with Cyprus begin six months after the government conference: at the beginning of next year, therefore.
In Agenda 2000 the Union declares its determination to play a positive role in reaching a solution.
Mr President, even if it is a compromise, this resolution on Cyprus is worthwhile since on the one hand it condemns the blocking of negotiations, attributable to the Turkish Cypriots, and the new attempts at intimidation by Turkey, and, on the other hand, it reiterates Europe's desire to undertake from the start of 1998 negotiations on membership with the single recognized government, that of the Republic of Cyprus.
Raouf Denktash has made impossible demands, yet there can be no peace in Cyprus without an agreement with the Turkish Cypriot side as well, and for this one must seek new ways.
However, every effort must still be made to find a solution to the dispute and to make clear that Cypriot entry to the European Union cannot be blocked by the fact that peace has not yet been achieved on the island.
The accession negotiations with Cyprus must begin in 1998 - at the beginning of the year - and the Union must consequently stick to its position: the illegal occupation regime in northern Cyprus cannot be recognized and as such cannot take part in negotiations.
Mr President, recent developments bear witness to the fact that, unfortunately, we are now facing the worst situation regarding the Cypriot problem since 1974.
The move for the accession of Cyprus into the European Union, while seen by many as the catalyst for the solution of the Cyprus question, is already being transformed into an instrument of pressure and blackmail against the legally elected government of the Republic of Cyprus, and allows Turkey, with the indulgence not only of the European Union but also of the governments of certain Member States, to undermine any prospect whatsoever for a just and honourable solution to the Cypriot problem.
Mr President, now that the question of Cyprus is again on the agenda, I must just remind you that in December 1995, this Parliament, with a very large majority and without setting conditions, approved a customs union with Turkey and in addition billions in financing from the European Union to Turkey.
We nevertheless already knew then, in December 1995, that since 1974 Turkey has militarily occupied part of Cyprus and furthermore is actually carrying out a policy of cultural genocide there.
It seems to me in all honesty a bit ridiculous, now, in this resolution, to point out in a friendly way to the Turkish government, the fact that, and I quote, constructive relations between Turkey and the European Union depend partly upon the policy concerning Cyprus.
The Turkish policy with regard to Cyprus is after all well known and one can perhaps reproach the Turkish government for it but we can certainly not blame the Turkish government for not speaking in clear terms about it.
Not then, in December 1995, and not now.
Mr President, the Commission welcomes the motions for resolutions regarding the political situation following the UN sponsored talks on Cyprus in Troutbeck and Montreux.
The Commission fully supports the efforts under the auspices of the UN to work towards a political settlement and regrets that at the talks in August in Montreux there was no progress.
However, let me make it quite clear that accession negotiations with Cyprus will start six months after the conclusion of the IGC in conformity with the Council decision of 6 March 1995.
Thank you very much, Mr Pinheiro.
I believe that the crucial point in this text is the one that defends the permanent presence of the SFOR, which in our view is probably the only way to avoid a replica of the programmed massacre of the kind we have seen ordered by the persons already named.
As a member of the delegation which observed the elections in Bosnia, I have to say immediately that we must recognize with satisfaction the fact that the elections took place without incident and in a satisfactory manner from the formal point of view.
I should also like to say, Mr Commissioner, that there are cases where even the USA, the Commission or representatives of the Commission hinder the return of refugees to their homelands, and no new groups find entrance, because certain groups of citizens do not wish that to happen.
I would ask you, Mr Commissioner, to ensure that the money we make available can be more efficiently used, so that we do everything possible towards the restoration and securing of peace in Bosnia.
The people in Bosnia belong to the same ethnic group and speak the same language, but history has created a mistrust which ruthless nationalist leaders have been able to exploit for their own ends.
I think this is an important step towards the implementation of Daytona.
We must obviously take other steps together with the Commission.
Commissioner van den Broek has promised me this.
We must be flexible in laying down conditions for aid.
As you know, the Sandjak of Novi Pazar has about 500, 000 Muslims who live between Montenegro and Serbia and who were, even in the past, subject to the most serious oppression.
I request that everything should be extended to include the Sandjak of Novi Pazar and the rights of that population.
The Commission of course welcomes the successful holding of municipal elections in Bosnia-Herzegovina on 13 and 14 September.
The high turnout underlines the fact that these elections mark an important step towards democracy.
As you may recall, at the ministerial meeting in Sintra last May, we agreed on the need to support those parties who are themselves supporting Dayton and to do what we can to undermine those who are opposing it.
I refer to the utilization of ECU 15 million but the non-utilization of ECU 35 million.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following 17 motions for resolutions: Kenya -(B4-0725/97) by Mr Watson and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party on Kenya; -(B4-0758/97) by Mr Telkämper and others, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament on Kenya; -(B4-0764/97) by Mr Hory and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance on human rights abuses in Kenya; -(B4-0778/97) by Mr Pons and Mr Vecchi, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on Kenya; -(B4-0792/97) by Mrs Lenz and Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on Kenya; -(B4-0801/97) by Mr Pettinari and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on Kenya; Gulf States -(B4-0773/97) by Mrs Karamanou and Mr Avgerinos, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on human rights in the Gulf States; -(B4-0777/97) by Mr Newens, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on human rights abuses in Bahrain; -(B4-0780/97) by Mr Bertens, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on human rights abuses in Bahrain; -(B4-0802/97) by Mr González Álvarez and Mr Manisco, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on human rights in Bahrain; Colombia -(B4-0779/97) by Mrs Miranda de Lage, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on Colombia; -(B4-0787/97) Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on the human rights situation in Colombia; Chile -(B4-0754/97) by Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament on the hearing on those who disappeared and for Spanish victims of the dictatorship of General Pinochet; -(B4-0771/97) by Mr Pons Grau and others, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on United States assistance to Spain in the case against the Pinochet regime; -(B4-0797/97) by Mr Puerta and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left on the hearing on those who disappeared and for Spanish victims of the dictatorship of General Pinochet; Ethiopia -(B4-0785/97) by Mr Moorhouse and Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on continuing human rights abuses in Ethiopia; Inner Mongolia -(B4-0750/97) by Mr Dupuis and Mr Dell'Alba, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, on the situation in Inner Mongolia and the sentencing of Mr.
We know this because recently the ruling party actually made some concessions to the opposition to help create free and fair elections.
I would urge him to do all he can to carry out the demands of this motion and bring pressure to bear on the Kenyan Government with a view to free and fair elections and the development of a healthy democracy.
Madam President, we are now at a rather crucial stage in Kenya, with elections coming up very fast on the horizon.
We certainly welcome the concessions made by the government and the vote by the parliament on 11 September.
Madam President, unfortunately we are again forced to concern ourselves with violence and human rights abuses in Kenya.
Even more dangerous is the outbreak of violence presented as ethnic and religious in origin when it is clearly politically motivated, violence which threatens to destabilize the country permanently.
The prospect of free elections and of putting an end to the extremely protracted authoritarian regime can begin to emerge.
Now, more than ever, the international community can play a positive role to promote that prospect.
Then it is necessary to guarantee the maximum possible assistance to the vast number of evacuees created by the violence of the past few months, and it needs to be remembered that there are hundreds of thousands of refugees from other countries in Kenya and that the stability of that country is fundamental for the whole region.
Corruption must be combatted and I, too, should like to end with the proposal: the Commission and the Council should make much more use of their opportunity to use article 5 of the Lomé Convention in the ending of human rights abuses on behalf of the population.
It has played an important role in the past, a peaceful role as well, and it could play this role again, if it should be successful in restoring public order, democracy and the rule of law.
We must support, therefore, all those who are prepared to restore peace and public order.
Madam President, once again we have to pass a resolution on Kenya - as we did last July - and we have to do so because the Nairobi military authorities continue to promote tension in that country.
I think the international community should put political and economic pressure on President Arap Moi.
Perhaps this aim, this stage of democracy, can draw the line under the dictatorial regime which, as the resolution states, has existed for far too long.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as happens unfortunately all too often in our assembly, the know-alls have again struck by tabling in response to the situation in Kenya a motion which is almost a word for word copy of a text drafted by the International Monetary Fund dated last July, despite the fact that it is very difficulty to understand who was responsible for the violence in Kenya.
Mr President, more than 20 years ago, in 1975, the Government of Bahrain dissolved the firstever elected Bahraini parliament which had existed for only two years.
Protests and campaigns opposed to arbitrary rule have been subject to draconic suppression under the 1974 State Security Law and other measures.
Very large numbers of people have been intimidated, arrested, convicted, imprisoned without trial or sent into compulsory exile.
Raids on meeting places, homes and other locations, the suspension of a professor from her job, dismissals of people for instigating a petition and the raid on 13 December on a women's organization are all unacceptable.
The parliament has been dissolved for 22 years and human rights are being violated.
Reports by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch speak volumes.
The Union must demonstrate its clear condemnation of this policy and it must also be clear that such a reaction to peaceful demonstrations is only pouring petrol on the flames.
It shows that these reports on Bahrain had nothing whatever to do with realities there.
Columbia Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has often spoken about the situation in Colombia - about the violence, the terrorism and the attacks on human rights.
Violence has not solved a single problem in Colombia.
On the contrary, the situation has been getting worse throughout the last 30 years, reaching the limits of endurance.
That is why the proposal launched by the Samper Government to initiate talks between the conflicting parties should receive the support of all the Union's institutions, which in their debates on many occasions have demonstrated enormous concern for the future of that country.
This is a new situation, which deserves careful thought from the guerrillas, the paramilitaries and all those who employ weapons instead of words.
More than a million people are displaced in their own country, not just because they are caught between the fronts of the guerillas and the army, but because they have been sacrificed to the ever-worsening social conflict.
We condemn guerrilla violence and whilst welcoming the release of the kidnapped 70 young conscripts earlier this year against some expectations, we express concern at reports of widespread interference in the electoral process in the run-up to local elections due on 26 October.
Madam President, unfortunately in Colombia today violence is a law unto itself.
Unfortunately, very little: we can support the Government and various sectors of civilian society in their efforts to achieve a rightful peace; and we can support the efforts of the European Commission, and Commissioner Marín in particular, in that direction.
Madam President, the draft resolution welcomes the Colombian government's peace initiative.
This initiative was announced on 28 August.
We should, however, note that on 4 September the army and paramilitary groups had already begun an offensive, including mass bombing of civilian targets.
It appears that in future Parliament and the Commission should be more on their guard against the double game the Colombian government is playing and its armed forces.
An amnesty law guaranteeing the military immunity from prosecution has so far prevented those guilty of the hideous crimes carried out by the military dictatorship in the country from being themselves brought before a court and sentenced.
I think it is very important for other states to follow this example, so that these wounds can finally heal, because only one who also knows the facts can forgive.
Madam President, my first point is that this is a resolution designed to combat impunity directly.
But, at the same time, this resolution shows the greatest respect for Chile's democratic and civilian authorities.
We are also in line with what has been expressed by the current Spanish Government in the Senado , which echoes popular feeling and fully supports a solution to this case.
The position the European Parliament is voting on here today is the maintenance of constant and consistent action, well-grounded in law and justice, against impunity and neglect in relation to crimes systematically committed against human rights.
Madam President, General Pinochet will cease to be Chief Head of State of Chile in March 1998.
I should like to conclude by asking you, on behalf of my group, for a separate vote on section 4 of the resolution.
The reasons are simple: Chile is the only country in South America which has experienced democracy for 150 years.
Democratic elections brought President Allende to power.
The persecutions and deaths that took place at that time opened the way to a violent and tragic military dictatorship, more criticized at world level than many others, equally or more violent, which exist and have existed in Africa and Asia.
Transition from a dictatorship to a democracy is a development which many countries in Europe have made.
An amnesty or statute of limitations is not an expression of generosity, but in the end would cause a destabilisation of Chile's democratic future.
It is a very complex country with some 55 million people, including no fewer than 76 ethnic groups, speaking 286 languages.
The authorities admit that some of these have occurred, but say that they are isolated incidents committed without their approval.
I ask for the support of the House in the face of this grave violation of human rights.
Indeed, it has already been acknowledged by the presidency, and alterations have been made to the resolution which I hope will be acceptable.
That is an offence to any parliamentarian; it is totally inaccurate; it is as inaccurate as Mr Moorhouse's draft resolution.
Madam President, I have two very short and relevant points to make.
Felipe de Jesurín and Immelda Lopez de Sandoval were pursued by cars and threatened with death.
Inner Mongolia Madam President, this resolution has been obtained through considerable effort and I would like to thank colleagues from the PPE, UPE and the liberal group for having supporting it.
It is even more serious than in Tibet.
Today, Inner Mongolia comprises 20 million Chinese whilst only 3.6 million Mongolians remain.
I believe it is possible to avoid doing the same thing again after forty years of imperialism, communism and the totalitarianism in China.
The eagerly awaited and very promising outcome of the Beijing congress demonstrates that we are moving towards a large Singapore and not towards democratization, that we are not moving towards the fifth modernization of Wei Jingsheng, towards democracy.
Madam President, human rights are indivisible and wherever they are violated we in this group, like many others in the House, will always condemn them.
We are talking about a country with three huge colonies, Tibet, East Turkestan and Mongolia.
If we do not make it absolutely clear what we stand for, what we accept, that we stand for the right of races to self-determination, that we stand for respect of human rights in China's various colonies, then we shall, in my view, have indeed missed our target and our purpose.
I think we must also be quite clear in this case what we are talking about: that we represent the self-determination of peoples, particularly in all those places where this is being violated.
I fully support the concerns expressed by the authors of the motions not only on the situation in Kenya but on the impact of instability in Kenya and how a bad democratic situation can adversely affect a whole region.
In my opinion those eleven points need to be followed very carefully, especially because in some of them there are clear timetables - 15 days or a month to approve new political parties or to permit new newspapers and radio stations.
So we are monitoring that very closely together with our Heads of Mission in Nairobi.
I should also mention in regard to Article 5, which was mentioned by some speakers, that approximately 50 % of our cooperation in Kenya is directed towards NGOs who are working with less-privileged members of the population on health, basic education and farming in the interior.
So Article 5 is not the best weapon in this case and for the moment.
I myself witnessed this a few months ago on a visit to Kenya when I could see for myself that human rights and democracy were a top priority in the dialogue with government and the press.
Bearing in mind that President Moi received 63 % support in that area in previous elections which is far beyond the 25 % minimum required, it would be stupid for the government to contribute to instability there.
So the information we read in the press and received from our representatives in Nairobi seems to be much more realistic.
At any rate I am sure we will keep coming back to this situation because of the importance of Kenya and because of the importance of that country to the region as a whole.
Therefore, all we have done so far is to utilize the many meetings with the Gulf Cooperation Council but mainly the General Assembly of the United Nations to engage in a dialogue on these issues.
So, in a nutshell I would just say that we share your concerns regarding the situation in Bahrain and hope that a constructive dialogue might be possible so that democratic elections might be held.
With regard to the death penalty, the Commission has often expressed its total support for all those who support the entire abolition of the death penalty.
I must say that the Commission has already had the opportunity on numerous occasions, in this very building, to confirm that it totally shares the Parliament's views on the concerns raised by the situation inside Columbia, which has steadily deteriorated in recent months.
In recent months the European Union has stepped up its appeals to the parties to seek a peaceful and negotiated solution to armed confrontation.
For its part, the Commission has expressed its commitment to the Colombian people by providing financial backing for a number of important initiatives aimed at strengthening the rule of law, respect for human rights and material support for victims of violence.
This is the only country in South America, Latin America or ECHO that has a permanent co-ordinator on the spot to help displaced persons more effectively and quickly and also because we fear that the situation will escalate in the near future.
The conclusions of the exploratory peace report submitted on 9 September last highlight that the peace proposals presented by the Samper government form a sound basis for discussion between the government and the guerrilla forces.
Concerning Ethiopia, we take note of the resolution on what is termed persistent human rights violations and on the recent assassination of Mr Maru which we view with great concern.
This statement disregards the transitional government established after the fall of the Mengistu regime and the electoral process which followed.
Moreover, there is no doubt that the Ethiopian Government must be given credit for much of the successful results of its development policy, for the change in the international image of Ethiopia, for its active external policy and for its stabilizing role in the Horn of Africa region.
Together with the Member States, the Commission is aware of, and continues to follow, the problems of Ethiopia, while closely monitoring developments within Ethiopia itself.
The Commission has regularly raised the question of human rights in these two countries as permanent themes in the bilateral dialogue with China.
Let me reassure you that we are playing an active role in that dialogue, which is always very difficult, but the European Union has taken a persistent and determined approach.
The Commission is keen that the bilateral dialogue between the European Union and China on human rights should be resumed as soon as possible and without preconditions.
In view of our persistence, I am sure that eventually my fellow Commissioners, Sir Leon Brittan or Hans van den Broek, will soon be able to come to Parliament to say that this dialogue on human rights without preconditions with China has been resumed.
In that case, of course, the Commission is ready to play as full a role as possible in that dialogue and it will keep you informed.
I feel sure that he and I are at one in wishing to expose human rights violations, not only in Ethiopia, but in any country that we may feel obliged to do so and he, like I, will want to take action where necessary against offending governments.
Thank you very much, Mr Moorhouse.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I must admit, however, that since then his activities have rather escaped my notice.
I hope that there are forces in America strong enough to persuade the President - force him, I would almost say - to add his signature after all.
I and my Party, however, should like to see this total ban remain undiluted.
The situation in these countries, the situation of the families, the children, the people, demands that this total ban be signed by every European country and by the whole world.
Madam president, the humanitarian aims expressed at the Oslo conference for a total ban on landmines are in themselves worthy of support.
For Finland infantry mines are a vital force in our land defences.
Infantry mines are used in Finland only in crisis situations to halt an aggressor.
That is why the call in the resolution on land mines made by the EPP group to change options in border-zone security is meaningless unless it includes concrete suggestions as to how a country like Finland can, when threatened with conflict, protect her land borders efficiently and effectively.
The conference in Oslo is a first step, a first victory, but we should beware of praising its result too highly.
Our American allies, for misleading reasons, have not always joined us in this fight.
In fact it is my impression that the search for an international agreement signed at all costs by all the countries which produce anti-personnel mines hides the secret desire that opposition from some country will ruin the whole agreement.
Waiting for the signature or an agreement which binds all the producer countries is, in our opinion, a hypocritical excuse for not starting to ban production in European countries immediately.
As a Finn, I cannot myself, unfortunately, support all parts of this resolution, even though my group does so.
The ban will also have different effects in different countries.
As a colleague here has pointed out, Finland only places mines for defensive purposes, against aggression.
Since the Commission fully endorses the sentiments in the motion, I would just add that we know that our work will not be completed until there is an effective global ban implemented by all states, until all mines are cleared from areas of habitation and economic use, and until all victims of mines are properly cared for.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint on the following four motions for resolutions: (B4-0757/97) by Mrs Hautala and others, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on toxic blue-green algae in the Baltic Sea; -(B4-0772/97) by Mrs Myller, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the ecological problem in the Baltic Sea; -(B4-0781/97) by Mr Thors and Mr Olsson, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party on the environmental situation in the Baltic Sea; -(B4-0799/97) by Mr Sjöstedt and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, on pollution in the Baltic Sea.
The commission must definitely improve on its role in this matter.
The European Union is perfectly capable of getting involved in the Baltic clean-up operation.
And EU regional programmes, such as Interreg II C, are a possible co-ordination tool in this region.
The harmonisation of environmental standards for the Baltic, and generally, must be an essential part of the strategy for the enhancement of unification with these countries.
The Commission must take a more active role in the Helsinki Commission now that it has one year left in the chair of this important organ for environmental co-operation.
This week in a reply to my question the Commission promised that it would be guided by a desire to achieve the highest possible level of environmental protection.
We must know who has dumped what in the sea over the past fifty years.
Many in our group support this proposal in principal, but many also believe that this is not the right context in which to take it up.
In the present situation the EU and its Member States are in an excellent position to get this co-operation into gear.
That is why the Commission's input into the co-operation taking place in the Baltic region, like the implementation of the Baltic Region AGENDA 21 programme, must be increased considerably.
The Helsinki Commission has a programme for action to reduce nutrient loads.
The EU Commission must do more to support the implementation of the measures contained in this programme.
For two years, since July 1996, the European Commission has chaired the Helsinki Commission, the executive organ of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea.
Our engagement in the running of the Helsinki Commission, the Council of the Baltic Sea States and the development of the Baltic Sea Agenda 21 currently under way are some examples of such actions.
The debate is closed.
The vote on topical and urgen subjects will take place in a few moments.
The Agricultural Council has already agreed a package of measures designed to stabilise the beef market, influenced by the BSE crisis.
Even though Germany has more than a fifth of the European population, and German beef and veal production is about 20 % of the total EU production, only about 10 % of benefits from the EU sales promotion programme have so far flowed into our country.
That means that Germany must have a share of at least 20 %.
Also, while the flashpoint of the epidemic occurred between 1994 and 1996, it was already present in Great Britain in 1986.
The 1993 regulation dates from the period of the Commission's deep sleep and the veritable explosion of the epidemic.
The proposal for a regulation under discussion today completes that implemented in 1993 and is intended to promote not only the best cuts but also the lesser ones, putting them on the market with the same labelling.
The markets almost collapsed in 1996 when it was found there was an undisputed link between BSE and CreutzfeldtJacob disease, which affects humans.
From the start of 1993 a quality regulation came into force followed last February by a livestock identification scheme and provision for passports for animals, animal identification schemes and the marking of beef.
The situation shows clearly that the measures should be addressed at source, and monitoring should concentrate on the production of beef and the cattle feed industry.
The efforts already deployed in this direction by regional and national professional organisations show that this is the right way.
This regulation which we are debating today is not new.
In the Article there is a mention only of a requirement for between 60 % and 80 %.
We are all concerned, firstly because we are consumers, secondly because the Committee on Agriculture has appointed our colleague Jan Mulder to compile an initiative report on the quality and recognition of farm produce and foods.
Madam President, as the agenda has not been followed as scheduled, Mr des Places, who was to have spoken, cannot attend this sitting and has appointed me to speak on his behalf.
In its proposal on promoting beef, the Commission is in no way challenging the quality of eligible products.
In a ruling dated 30 June 1992 an attempt was made to promote the consumption of beef products.
Moreover, even when the tag is added, the decline in consumption slows down but does not stop.
In other words, we are still feeling the consequences of BSE because a British company, De Mulder brothers, wanted to poison British beef cattle.
A budget line is provided, B-1.38, on aid for promotional purposes, of which up to 60 % could be co-financed.
A grant of up to 32 million ECU's may also be provided for the Raphael programme.
The first is central to the system on confidence: on the one hand the aim is to reassure the consumer through advertising policies but at the same time the consumer becomes worried through imports of hormone-injected beef following the verdict of the panel of the World Trade Organization.
The second contradiction concerns revenues.
Here, too, the aim is to safeguard the market by advertising or other measures but at the same time, the Agenda 2000 project provides for a 30 % reduction in the intervention price of beef, which is tantamount to hammering the livestock farmers hard on the head with the four tomes of the Agenda 2000 project and then administering them with an analgesic to reassure them!
I believe that her constituents in Lincolnshire and Humberside can be really proud of her work on this particular report.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf referred to the fact that meat is a delicacy.
I am particularly pleased that within my constituency of Shropshire and Hereford the local farmers have banded together and produced what is called the Marches locally-reared beef and lamb scheme - the Marches Quality Meat Scheme.
There is absolutely no reason why Marches meat under this scheme should not be sold or eaten anywhere in the world.
I would like to see Marches quality meat on sale, clearly labelled, anywhere in the European Union.
I can promise you, Madam President, that you will be in for quite a delightful experience if you eat our meat.
We know, however, that beef consumption has been in recession for years.
The Commission has admittedly phrased things very generally, but this was a bit too limiting.
Madam President, I would just like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate.
So I hope that it will go through tomorrow and that it will be possible to put this action into place and start to sell European beef not only within Europe, but also throughout the world so that it will again be recognized as among the best in the world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning at 9.00 a.m.
