Mr President, yesterday we placed on Wednesday's agenda the vote without debate on an interinstitutional agreement on the financing of the common foreign and security policy.
Our aim in doing this was to apply Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires the Committee on Budgets to have first adopted the report that it is putting before this House.
Well, the Committee on Budgets met yesterday evening and was unable, for lack of time, to examine the text in question.
The fact that 4 July is the date given on the cover page is simply due to the document having become a report.
The document, however, has been on the table since Amsterdam; in other words, the countdown to the amendment deadline has been running since 30 June.
Thank you very much, Mr Samland.
Thank you very much, Mrs Ahern.
Mr President, a journalist from the Wall Street Journal recently asked me if I was a patent attorney.
It is only a matter of the European Union upgrading its patent law to this international standard.
The European Patent Office does issue patents in this area.
These patents, however, can be challenged by national courts, and there is therefore a real danger of legal fragmentation in Europe, a fragmentation that would be poison for investment in Europe.
By the way, I said that this patent protection already exists in the United States and in Japan.
It will no doubt be asserted in the course of this debate that this Directive will obstruct research.
We shall not have the opportunity to follow and discuss the development of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
Nobody in the world who knows anything of patent law would make that claim, with the exception of Greenpeace's legal experts.
What will be patented are products made by human hand and nothing else!
The Protestant Church in Germany, my own church, allowed Greenpeace to stage a children's crusade against this Directive at its General Assembly. (Heckling) I assume that, for the youngsters who took part in it, this was the first time they had heard the word 'patent' .
Enough of this nonsense! (Applause) Let us have done with this nonsense and come back to the subject of patent law.
This law will not be able to solve the ethical questions that arise in connection with biotechnology and genetic engineering.
It is, if you like, part of the law governing competition.
I ask the House to accept the proposal of the Agriculture Committee on this point too, so that those who wish to claim rights under a patent must prove that they are indeed the legitimate holders of the patent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy voted by a large majority in favour of the proposal for a directive that we are today debating, asking the Legal Affairs Committee to refine it further.
What we therefore need to determine is whether Europe, whether the European Union, wants merely to be a consumer and, therefore, importer of the results of research into biotechnology, via the products in which biotechnology has been used, or whether it wants also to be a producer and, consequently, a potential exporter.
Mr President, about 40 % of today's world economy is based on genetic resources from developing countries.
These so-called developing countries also contain 86 % of the world's plants.
The German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation writes that, according to estimates by the International Ethnobotanical Society, the indigenous peoples in those three parts of the world possess 99 % of the entire body of knowledge on useful biological diversity.
In other words, this means that the bulk of the resources we are now discussing, resources for biotechnological inventions and for patents awarded or potentially awardable in respect of such inventions, come from the Third World.
The use of these resources for biotechnological inventions depends on traditional wisdom, such as knowledge of their medicinal properties or cultivation methods.
That is why our committee has rejected this report.
Mr President, the opinion of the Environment Committee seeks to restrain Mr Rothley's report.
Finally measures should be taken to ensure that, in accordance with the Convention on Biological Diversity, agreement has been reached on the equitable sharing of economic benefits before a patent is issued in those cases in which biological material is obtained from a developing country.
Let me say quite emphatically that, for me, protecting life means not standing in the way of progress in medical research.
Protecting life means opening up new prospects in the fight against malaria.
Protecting life means finding new types of crops that are more economical with our soils and require fewer fertilizers and pesticides.
However, this measure does cause problems, let it be said, between the PPE and ourselves.
As we know, research on embryos is banned in Germany, and I respect this decision, I respect the conviction behind it, but this very same research is authorized, and strictly controlled by legislative provisions and codes of practice, in the United Kingdom, Spain, Belgium and France.
It is necessary not only to make progress - it has been done in fields such as in vitro fertilization - but also to open up new prospects in the fight against nervous disorders, or against Alzheimer's disease.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that my group cannot accept the ban imposed by this paragraph.
The task is made all the more difficult because this is a field that is difficult to understand, in both legal and biological terms.
Those limits are the ones established by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the amendment to Article 9.
However much I wish to defend the directive, I believe that its long passage, that it not over today, would be prejudiced if all of the limits provided for in Article 9 were to be changed and abolished.
Moving in that same direction, I ask you to consider, specifically because of the importance of the directive, the need to retain as it stands the committee's amendment to Article 9.
It seems to me that the European Parliament, which sees the value of human beings as the basis for seeking investment for the benefit of man, should have the courage to engage in a simple process of reconciliation by accepting this limit along with the others.
The amendments adopted by the Legal Affairs Committee are designed to rule out patentability of, among other things, plant varieties and animal species, biological procedures for the production of plants and animals, parts of the human body at its various stages of development; the simple discovery of the sequences contained in genes; the procedures for human cloning or measures to modify the germinal line of human beings; methods which make use of human embryos; and inventions the use and publication of which are incompatible with ordre public and morality.
Nonetheless, this is part of a general solution arrived at within the Legal Affairs Committee and one which, we believe, should be endorsed in all its aspects because, if it is not, it could again undermine the credibility of this House.
Mr President, as others have said before me, this directive is particularly important because it harmonizes patent law in the Member States in the area of biotechnological inventions, in order to clear up the legal uncertainties and to avoid the risk of it all falling apart.
It is to reward inventors for their creative activity, to provide an incentive to invention and to promote technological innovation as an essential factor of economic growth.
The market in biotechnological products is a fast expanding one.
It is estimated that this market will be worth 80 billion ecus in the year 2000, a quarter of which will be spent on new drugs.
At present, unfortunately, Europe is nowhere: in biotechnology, in immunology, we are being beaten on our own continent by American firms.
But, of course, since it involves research and patents on living tissues, the ethical aspects naturally absorbed our attention for many long hours.
All possible precautions to prevent possible abuses have been taken and, consequently, the objections concerning the risks of gene manipulation are unfounded, especially as the directive provides for the setting up of a European ethics committee.
It is financial considerations - not public ones - which will shape the decision as to how and when an invention is to be exploited and who is to benefit from it, given that control over whether a patented invention is exploited or not is granted to the proprietor of the patent who will naturally make decisions regarding it on the basis of his or her own interests.
However, in practice, this uncertainty continues, given that this directive is in conflict with the principles of the Convention on the granting of European patents, expanding the scope of patents beyond currently established limits.
The Commission's new proposal has not attempted to examine such wider social implications or explore alternative forms of intellectual property rights which reward genuine innovation without guaranteeing the monopolistic powers of control conferred by patents.
My Group calls upon this House to base its deliberations on moral principles.
Mr President, colleagues, two years ago the European Parliament rejected at the third reading the initial draft directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
Yes, but unfortunately between yesterday and today the debate has progressed very little and the blurred areas are still with us.
A clone, in the sense that the Legal Affairs Committee manifestly takes the same strict legal view as to the manner in which patent law should apply to living human tissue.
Imperfect, because it is necessary nevertheless to emphasize the considerable improvements introduced by Members to Articles 3 and 9 of the text, which spell out the relevant ethical principles.
No higher principles, such as the preservation of the human body from exploitation or respect for human dignity underpin measures of a legal nature.
Even when these ethical principles are explicitly written down - I am referring here to Amendment No 11 of the Legal Affairs Committee which establishes the principle of excluding patentability of the human body, its parts and its products - the principle of excluding products of the human body, such as blood, tears, sweat, sperm, is not to be found in Article 3, Amendment No 49, which deals with the non-patentability of the human body.
Mr President, the subject tackled by the Rothley report is a difficult one which, as others have said on occasions, is of direct concern to every delegate in this Parliament and touches upon the deeply-held convictions of each one of us.
To begin with, let me say that I have some sympathy with the argument that the European Union needs a directive in this area.
It is true that we do have patent law at international level; this fact is mentioned in the draft that we have before us.
There is of course a need for a directive that will allow biotechnological inventions to be patented when - and only when - such inventions are of real use to society; a directive that offers a meaningful response to suffering.
The human body is not patentable; only products created by Man can be patentable.
The discovered parts of the human body must not be redefined as inventions, which would make them patentable.
Our duty as Members of the European Parliament is to serve 370 million children, women and men.
This obligation underlies amendments 71 to 76.
Harmonization of the Member States' legal provisions in this domain has become necessary as a means of countering the divergence between the development of legislation and that of jurisprudence in the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when in March 1995 we voted on the first directive on the patentability of biotechnologies, I voted in favour.
We may wonder whether during this 18 month delay, research into biotechnology and the biotechnology industry in Europe have suffered a competitive setback compared with their American and Japanese counterparts and whether capital and jobs have been lost.
It therefore seems to me to be very important that, moving beyond the directive we are approving, all of those involved in this frontier sector should undertake to enhance the information available in such a way as make it easier to understand and dispel the fear that comes with ignorance.
Mr President, as everyone here is aware, biotechnology has developed rapidly in many areas.
It is undeniably true that in this area Europe has definitely failed to keep up with international competition.
At the conclusion of the codecision procedure, this directive was rejected by the European Parliament in March 1995 because the ethical dimension had not been taken sufficient account of.
Since then, the Commission has submitted a new draft directive on the protection of biotechnological inventions by patents, at the same time setting out the conditions and the exceptions to patentability.
I would draw attention to the fact that my country prohibits the patenting not only of the human body, its parts and its products, but also of the knowledge of the total or partial structure of the human gene.
These ethical principles should, in my view, be embodied in the draft directive.
This is vital if serious violations are to be prevented and human dignity is to be safeguarded.
The argument advanced here is that such restrictions would hinder research.
Mr President, genetic resources, patents and their economic control are the key questions of the coming millennium.
Commissioner Cresson gave this House an assurance on the banning of human cloning, but the directive does not ban patents on the product of human cloning.
Current law prohibits patents on methods for the treatment of the human body by surgery or therapy and diagnostic methods practised on the human body.
I urge colleagues to vote for Amendment No 91 by the Green Group which proposes such a doctor's exemption.
An example of the problems raised is the case of the breast cancer gene already referred to.
Our gene cells and body parts and our resistance to hereditary disorders would become the monopoly property of the companies that hold the patents on them.
For example, the granting of a patent on umbilical-cord blood could deny access to these blood cells to anyone unable to pay for them.
Colleagues, the Clinton administration in the US has sought to move US health care towards a European model.
If we now move our European health service towards an American model, leaving aside the public good, the citizens of these Member States will not forgive us.
We are also seeing what can only be described as an ideological clash between humanism and liberalism, and on top of that we have some interesting cross-currents muddying the more usual political divisions which have been revealed for example by the speech of our colleague Mr Casini, or the thoughtful speech of Mr FabreAubrespy.
Mr President, the debate on this directive has focused over the last year on technical legal aspects, rather than ethical considerations.
The interpretation given in the Gebhardt amendment seems much more natural to me.
I therefore feel that there is a much more valid case for patenting products or production methods based on the discovery of a gene.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the thrust of the Rothley report on the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions has, in my view, been brought well into focus by those who have spoken, including Mr Casini.
We in the Alleanza Nazionale shall be voting in favour of the report as a whole and those amendments that are designed to protect life, the embryo and morality - and on this occasion morality and politics will have to work together - but not those which will have the effect, from a legal and biological point of view, of distorting the physiological in the strict sense of the word.
To conclude, therefore, we need to avoid patents on the following: the human body, parts of the human body, human tissue and all genetic material derived from human sources; animals, parts of animals, animal tissue, genetic modification processes, plants, seeds, vegetable tissue and other reproductive material.
Mr President, I do not feel that the importance of these discussions has to be emphasized any further.
It suffices to take note of the amount of information - sometimes disinformation - which we Members have received concerning this directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur.
The draft directive before us is undoubtedly of huge economic importance to Europe.
That applies to both sides, so the applause was perhaps premature.
If some here are suggesting that the adoption of the directive cannot fail to bring about enormous advances in the treatment of genetic diseases, the least I can say is that there are divergent views among medical scientists.
It is of decisive importance to our group that certain ethical boundaries are drawn in this directive.
One of these concerns intervention in the human germ line, while others relate to the patenting of methods that involve the use of human embryos and to animal welfare.
All of the political forces in this House agreed with that view when the appearance of Dolly the sheep brought human cloning into the realms of possibility.
Mr President, we had a great battle with Mr Langer in 1995 to defeat this directive.
I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has done a great job.
I share that belief strongly which is why on this occasion I feel at ease in supporting this report and do so in good conscience.
Patents on human bodies, on human cloning, on embryos and on altering the human germ line are all banned in the draft from the Legal Affairs Committee.
Again today my mailbox is full of letters, not least from groups in my own country representing those who suffer from genetic and other medical disorders currently without a cure, requesting support for this measure because it offers them some hope.
The new proposal still provides for the patenting of living organisms.
Not even the cloning of body cells, as was done in the case of Dolly the sheep, or the patenting of biological weapons are excluded in the Legal Committee's report.
The directive does not set out a fundamental position on genetic engineering.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after eight years of indecision it does seem high time now to change the European legislation on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
The text put forward by the Commission this time does largely take account of the vitally important ethical standards of natural law on the matter, in particular excluding the human body from that which can be patented.
Well, we know that our legislation as it stands today leaves us powerless in the face of American and Japanese competition.
According to the rapporteur himself, as he says in his explanatory memorandum, only 24 % of patents accepted by the European Patent Office are of European origin.
Madam President, in recent weeks Members of this Parliament have been subjected to a barrage of misinformation on this subject, which has been orchestrated by the Green movement.
One of the very sad things about the current discussion is that the campaign against the directive has ignored fact and ignored the very substantial changes that have been negotiated to allay legitimate concerns and fears that genetic research will involve the reproductive system.
These are all diseases which have a genetic element in them and the developments in biotechnology and genetic engineering bring some hope that there might be a cure.
Madam President, if we were able to distil the maximum benefit from the DNA technologies and at the same time control the associated dangers, we would have found the best way to support investment in that sector.
Since this Parliament's failure to establish an appropriate legislative framework two and a half years ago, the legal protection of biotechnological applications remains an exceptionally sensitive, public and open issue.
In the case of DNA technology the debate creates conflicts because it is difficult to define when and which of the elements of a specific technological application constitute inventions and which discoveries - given that patents should in my opinion only be granted for inventions and innovations and not for discoveries - and ones which must also result in a biotechnological application.
Madam President, it is not my wish today to go back over the technical aspects of patentability, but rather to focus on those aspects that have to do with the patentability of living beings.
Thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur and the European Parliament, the new directive now takes account of ethical and social aspects in being based on a coherent approach.
There is a difference between discovery and invention: a gene is not life - one has to make a distinction between the whole and its parts.
Finally, let us not forget that a patent is not an exploitation licence.
In the preparation of such a directive our Parliament has exercised its responsibility of democratic control with a view to securing recognition for research and researchers and for the economic competitiveness of the European Union in the respect for life, respect for human beings and respect for the rights of the individual.
Madam President, all that can be said on this issue has really already been said.
Unfortunately, it has become something of a dialogue of the deaf and there are also a number of inaccuracies involved, which Mr Adam also pointed out earlier.
All too frequently during the debate we have forgotten that we are in Europe.
Madam President, speaker after speaker has brilliantly succeeded in showing us what is unacceptable in the report by Mr Rothley.
Artcle 52(4) of the European Convention on patents, which serves as the basis for all national legislations, excludes methods of treating human or animal bodies involving surgery or therapy, as well as diagnostic methods.
Because we for our part believe that there are dangers in patenting such methods - dangers to the rights of patients, dangers to medical progress and dangers to advances in knowledge in general.
Let me give an example to illustrate this: the American company 'Biocyte' has been granted a patent in respect of the blood cells from the umbilical cord.
This patent covers not only the cells in question, but also any therapeutic use to which they may be put.
I believe that the current debate about this patent, which is being challenged by numerous researchers and doctors, risks tipping the balance in favour of 'Biocyte' .
The Rothley report undoubtedly gives pre-eminence to the economic and technical aspects of the debate.
Another argument against the patentability of human DNA sequences is that it would prevent the use of specific sequence variations by anyone other than the patent-holder and would thereby hinder research.
Only an invention can be patented: the product then of an intellectual process of research which needs this guarantee if it is to provide a fundamental point of reference for industrial development also.
This is not an ideological or teleological debate on life but a lay instrument designed to guarantee, regulate and harmonize a European area for biotechnology - an area that is now more than ever necessary if we think about what is happening at an international level.
If Europe follows the example of the American system and we work together, by 2005 - according to expert forecasts - biotechnology will really take off and become competitive, providing work for between 1.5 and 3 million people in Europe, while at the same time guaranteeing the right to health and the development of research and industry.
I will be voting for the Rothley report and I will be voting in favour despite the fact that, in my opinion, it contains a number of significant technical shortcomings, such as amendments 42 and 43 to recitals 39 and 40, which are incorrect as I see it, or amendment 45 to paragraph 2 of Article 1.
I shall also be voting in favour because of the economic reasons which have been set forth, but, above all, Madam President, I shall be voting in favour for a fundamental reason which, in my opinion, constitutes the very basis of the discussions we are currently involved in.
However, their innovation is being stymied by the fact that protection for biotechnological inventions is fragmented and, in comparison with the United States and Japan, very expensive.
It costs on average ECU 19 000 to submit to the European Patent Office a patent application covering eight countries, a market volume similar to that of the United States.
Madam President, one of the principles of the Christian faith is that all living beings should be regarded as God's creatures.
If that is to be more than just a pious saying, it must mean that the physical, genetic and creative integrity of our fellow creatures is a legal right that has to be protected, and protected in every area of the law, including patent law, Mr Rothley.
It does that because, as the rapporteur himself says on page 32 of his report, the directive concurs with those who demand the industrial exploitation of life.
Whoever does that must not be surprised if he has to rescind the new cloning ban within a short time for the very same reasons that have been advanced in support of the directive.
Madam President, sometimes in politics, as in life in general, you have to hold your hands up and say: I got it wrong.
I have to say that the European Parliament got it wrong in 1995 when we rejected the original biotechnology directive and I got it wrong by voting along with the majority in Parliament at that time.
The present proposal is also fair to the patients groups.
It gives them hope that this relatively new branch of science will help in the treatment of genetic disorders and in cures for diseases such as cancer and AIDS.
On the other hand and just as importantly, the new proposal provides safeguards for the environment; it provides safeguards for animal welfare; it respects existing international agreements; it ensures that human cloning is outlawed.
As Mr Adam pointed out earlier, most Members of the European Parliament have been subjected to a barrage of misinformation on this topic.
Very few speakers today have made the point that this is a single market measure.
In my own country we have 165 important small and medium-sized companies which are involved in biotechnology.
Another part of the mythology is that currently there is no legislation about the protection of biotechnological patents here in Europe.
As for ethics - although I consider that the ethical consideration is not really appropriate in this directive - the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and its rapporteur have included in Amendment No 56 a new Article 9a setting up an ethics committee.
As has been pointed out, we have also taken care of the interests of animals and, indeed, the interests of humans, though there seem to be some Members of this Parliament who think that animal rights are more important than human rights.
In conclusion, I shall be supporting this directive and I hope that the Commission will be able to accept most, if not all, of the amendments of the Legal Affairs Committee.
Madam President, it seems to me that the only clear argument from the rapporteur is that Europe should approve a provision on patenting in the field of biotechnology because the US and Japan already have similar legislation.
In reality, the sole objective is financially to exploit discoveries in the field of biotechnology: and these are discoveries because genes can only be discovered or modified, they cannot be invented.
I should also add that, as has already happened in the US, these genes are stolen from their genuine owners, for although they have them in their bodies, once they are patented they are no longer able to dispose freely of them.
Madam President, I should like to use my speaking time to refer to some of the misunderstandings that have cropped up time and again in this debate, as on previous occasions.
Product protection of primary genetic matter will provide a few European companies, but chiefly American and Japanese corporations - simply because they will be quicker to react - with a European monopoly for many years to come.
I shall close by asking all Members of the House who are seeking to reconcile the various legitimate interests involved here to support our Amendments 71 to 75.
But it goes without saying that, in a democratic society where there is freedom of research, the results of that research should be freely available to all researchers without the need to pay a licence fee.
Mr Adam said previously that there is a 'Green Propaganda Machine' which has mounted a pressure campaign before this debate.
So I must say that if this directive is adopted it will not only be a defeat for democracy but also a disgrace for the European Parliament.
In my view, we political decision-makers ought to be far more critical of the promises which are made regarding the millions of jobs which will be created in this field.
Madam President, after this long debate, I should like to dot some 'i's' and cross some 't's' , and in particular two of them.
The first relates to the concept of patents.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur and I reached a fair compromise on Amendments 16 and 49 after lengthy discussions.
They concern recitals 16a and 16e and Article 3.
In 1995, when this Parliament rejected the proposal for a so-called biopatent directive, many Members saw it as a moment of glory for the European Parliament.
Madam President, Mr Rothley, you have argued very, very eloquently today in favour of employment, and you have undoubtedly imparted a sense of vision with regard to this entire issue.
But there are still some small discrepancies between your oral presentation and your written report.
Patents are effectively an award for taking a risk and investing in the development of new medicines, and we should reward our companies for taking such risks.
That is why Ian White's amendment introducing an ethical committee will give us the kind of directive that we want and need.
We need this because there is a question, not just about the right of companies, but also about the right of patients to have their suffering from genetic diseases alleviated.
That is a sine qua non of progress.
We all remember - and some of you actually mentioned - the vote of 1 March 1995.
Through that vote of 1 March 1995 and despite the efforts made on all sides during the conciliation procedure, the European Parliament said one thing clearly: that it remained unpersuaded by the reasons and explanations provided.
The Amsterdam European Council also clearly affirmed in its conclusions the absolute principle of respect for the integrity of human beings.
We need therefore to establish clearly the distinction between the discovery of something that exists in nature and an invention that is the product of human activity with a well-defined objective.
The ethical aspect of biotechnological inventions, and particularly those concerning isolated elements of the human body, was therefore the Commission's starting-point for a thorough review to identify the most appropriate solution in this extremely sensitive area.
The Commission talked to the group of consultants on the ethics of biotechnology about the ethical aspects of patenting inventions involving elements of human origin.
Its opinion was given on 25 September 1996.
During the preparatory work for this plenary sitting, no less than six committees of the European Parliament worked on the proposal for a directive and held many lengthy meetings.
I should also like to thank everyone, including those whose opinions have been less positive because this has been an important and civilized debate.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights adopted 64 amendments.
The Commission is therefore, I repeat, prepared to accept all of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and to incorporate them into its amended proposal.
As part of the effort to achieve a balance, the Commission is also prepared to consider a number of amendments that were tabled subsequently: Amendments Nos 67, 69, 77, 79 and 99, for example.
The proposal for a directive is of crucial importance to the Council because it is one of the four initiatives under the action plan for the single market that the Member States have been called upon by the European Council to adopt as rapidly as possible and, at any event, by 1 January 1999.
We may therefore hope that the Luxembourg presidency, which is extremely sensitive to the problem, will be able to arrive at the common position at the meeting of the 'Internal Market' Council on 27 November next.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, we have already heard considerable debate this morning on a biotechnologically related issue of considerable importance.
We now have in front of us a report on another biotechnological issue of equal importance.
In this case, before the Commission presents a legislative text to Parliament, we have been given the opportunity to comment on the Commission's ideas in the form of a report on the review of Directive 92/20, which regulates the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
As I have already said, Directive 92/20 is intended to secure human and environmental safety for releases and marketing of genetically modified products (GMOs) and introduces a single entry point to the Community market for GMO products.
We recognize and accept that in the light of experience it is possible to establish a classification commensurate with the identified risks involved for each release of GMOs.
However, we cannot yet find any convincing arguments from the Commission in support of proposals for multi-state releases and we consider that more experience should be gained with the simplified procedure provided for in the Directive before we can consider any reductions in the requirements.
This would allow proper evaluation of the risks of full commercial releases and would provide a useful addition to a database that the Commission must establish in order to facilitate the exchange of information between Member States and better cooperation on the basis of that information.
We consider also that the Directive would function much better if decision-making procedures inside the Commission were made speedier, more transparent and more democratically accountable.
We therefore think it is important to ensure that the Scientific Technical Committee and the Technical Committee procedures are in line with the agreement known as the modus vivendi , and that these committees should meet in public and publish their minutes.
In conclusion, whilst there are many serious and important concerns associated with the use of biotechnology, particularly in the areas of food production and pharmaceuticals, the European Parliament believes that policy makers should take a very serious and thoughtful approach to the use of biotechnology in these areas, basing their decisions on sound science and not simply dismissing out of hand this technology which has many obvious benefits if used in a safe and sensible manner.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we should like to thank Mr Bowe for having incorporated into his report practically all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We cannot take refuge in the argument that general liability law will automatically cover any occurrences in this domain.
Directive 220 must be amended in such a way as to simplify unnecessarily complicated procedures.
Provision should also be made for a more effective and open exchange of information between national authorities and the Commission.
Therefore, the Commission must examine how an ethical dimension can be introduced into the decision-making process related to the Directive.' That is quite right and yet, in response to the debate a few minutes ago, Commissioner Monti seemed to be saying that the Commission would refer Parliament's demand for an ethical committee to the advisory group.
If you look at the amendment to the Rothley report tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights you will see that we have asked the Commission to come forward with proposals.
We should be thinking now , in advance of the second reading of the Rothley report and of further developments in biotechnology, how we are to treat this whole question.
That is a sensible first step, but it does not take us any further forward in terms of the structure of a proper ethics committee which will sooner or later have to treat the matter on a wider world stage on behalf of the European Union.
Madam President, the report we are debating on the review of Directive 90/220 on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms falls within the scope of the updating of Community law in the field of biotechnology.
I want to stress that this whole area needs monitoring, both by the Member States and by the Commission.
We are talking about, on the one hand, an experimental release and, on the other hand, the marketing of something which has already been subjected to trials.
Paragraph 12 also does not take account of the recently adopted amendment to Annex III.
The first was nuclear power, and the second is genetic manipulation.
The decision to develop nuclear energy was taken on the basis of misinformation about its potential effects.
Our duty as representatives of the people can only be to ensure that any type of danger to human beings is kept to an absolute minimum.
But it is unacceptable, Mrs Bjerregaard, that the Commission should intend to alter the scope of the Directive, in other words its annex, without consulting Parliament, as is implied in the Commission's report.
This is a procedural directive aimed at maintaining a high level of safeguards for health and the environment, so as to ensure the orderly development of GMO technology.
The directive is of great practical significance and, in the report we are debating today, the Commission undertakes an analysis of how the directive has worked since it came into force.
Let me go through some of the problem areas which have been mentioned here today and which we draw attention to in the report.
As Parliament knows, the Commission at my instigation adopted a provisional technical amendment of Annex 3 to Directive 90/220/EEC, according to which labelling would be required for all products released.
The Commission considers this to be a very important step in the right direction, and we think that in this way we have given the guidance to consumers that Parliament, in particular, has called for on several occasions.
The first concerns the special liability provision that Parliament wants to include in this Directive.
In order to achieve that, the Commission is currently drafting a White Paper on this subject, and I hope that the White Paper will give us the necessary basis on which to establish common rules and hence make it possible to impose requirements on the matter in specific environmental legislation.
As regards the proposals in the report, which were also singled out in the course of today's debate, for better exchanges of information between Member States and the establishment of a database, it is a special pleasure for me to announce that DG XI has already made all the necessary arrangements.
The motion for a resolution has been a significant aid to DG XI in drafting the proposal for an amendment of Directive 90/220/EEC, and I hope to get it adopted by the Commission straight after the summer holidays.
Thank you, Commissioner Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, as most poeple in this House know, this will be the last occasion on which you sit in the Chair of this plenary before your retirement to take up your full-time career in the National Assembly.
On behalf of my group and I am sure, on behalf of all the Members of this House, I should like to wish you the very best for your career and, in particular, to say that your integrity and the respect in which you are held in this House, for the manner in which you have chaired this plenary over many years are without question.
We wish you good luck and would like to offer you these flowers on behalf of my group and, indeed, of the whole House. (Loud applause) I am deeply touched, I would even say completely overcome.
These past sixteen years among you have been such a rich experience for me that I hope to be able to influence some of the questions with which the French National Assembly is involved, especially those that concern the European Union.
For that reason, the labelling clause should not be in the Directive on the common catalogue of varieties but in the Directive on the marketing of seed.
Madame President, the committee does not necessarily have to take account of the amendments tabled.
Madam President, the point at issue is that the Legal Affairs Committee did not put the documents before the committee members.
What I rather regret - and here I fail to understand the PPE Group in particular, who are normally staunch advocates of farming interests - is that the PPE Group rejected the third indent regarding local exchanges of seed between neighbouring farmers for use on their own farms.
The seed package is based on Article 43 of the EC Treaty, which the Danish Social Democrats can accept as long as it only concerns the amalgamation of trade directives in the field of agriculture.
Our Group has voted in favour of all the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture concerning changes to the directives relating to the marketing of seed, apart from the third indent of Amendment No 21.
Our Group is more than satisfied with the compromise resulting from the vote in plenary session.
As regards the third indent of Amendment No 21, our Group opposed this and notes with satisfaction that it failed to win approval.
Indeed, although the principle of seed exchanges between neighbours may appear quite legitimate, measures are necessary to prevent the establishment of a parallel market and especially the risk of losing all traceability of seed produced from genetically-modified organisms.
Aquaculture is a major source of pollution in the fishery sector.
I voted against the Souchet Report as I do not believe that the European Parliament has given satisfactory consideration to the legal base issue which I raised in legal base amendments to the Commission's proposal to amend the basic CFP Regulation.
The future of the CFP's founding principle of relative stability is at stake and it is absurd that the European Parliament should vote on such a delicate and complex matter without taking due time to reflect on the potential damage which could be wreaked by this open-ended and ill-considered Commission proposal.
It is indeed wrong for the Commission to seek to claim rights that it does not actually possess in order to avoid all controls on the manner in which it negotiates.
If, within the framework of international conferences, the Commission accepts new technical restrictions to be imposed on European Union fishermen, it seems to us vital for the Council and Parliament to be able to have their say on the validity of such restrictions.
On the Pery report (A4-0220/97) We would like to thank the rapporteur for her very thorough work on this report.
On the Gallagher report (A4-0229/97) In view of the European Parliament's discussion of the above report we wish to state our own fundamental attitude to fishery agreements of this type.
We also think that, when the opportunity arises, the European Parliament should consider contributing to the introduction of a fundamental change in attitude in this area.
On the Papakyriazis report (A4-0211/97) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Ombudsman's annual report is an opportunity to remind ourselves of the scale of its task.
As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I cannot but pay tribute to the work of the Ombudsman's office and its contribution to a process that seeks to bring the citizens of our nations closer to European institutions that seem all too remote from them.
And let us not forget that, as elected representatives of our respective peoples, it is we who are their best ombudsmen in the context of the Union.
Finally, I should like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with Article 13 of this Assembly's decision dated 9 March 1994 defining the Ombudsman's legal status, the Ombudsman's headquarters are in the European Parliament.
We have voted for the proposal which aims to improve the prospects for the general public to submit a petition.
But we have voted against point 4 in the report which states 'that the Ombudsman's role should be to support the institutional balance which is established in the Treaty...' This conflicts with the very aim of the function of Ombudsman to serve the public interest and to forward their complaints.
We thus support two of the four amendments which have been tabled on the two points referred to.
On the Bowe report (A4-0239/97) With regard to the Commission's communication on biotechnology, our Group believes that a measure of development in this industry of tomorrow should be allowed to go ahead, while keeping a very careful watch to prevent any possible abuses.
In conclusion, our Group stresses the need to preserve the precautionary principle in the interests of protecting consumers and protecting the environment.
Having dealt with legislation on the operation of the telecommunications market, interconnection and licensing, we have now moved on to directives and green papers concerned primarily with the interests of consumers - namely the content and operation of the universal service - such as this Green Paper on a numbering policy in the European Union.
Clearly, consumers are also bound to reap the benefits of the liberalization of the telecommunications market, in terms of an improved price/quality ratio and a better and more comprehensive service.
In some Member States, the difference is not always clear and consumers are kept on hold for several minutes without knowing whether it is costing them a fortune.
My group agrees with the main thrust of the proposals in the Green Paper, and we would like to know what the Commissioners think about our proposals and amendments.
I have one final comment on the report by Mr Argyros.
Secondly, technological development and modernization in the sector.
Finally, I attempt to examine the world-wide dimension of telecommunications.
This is already a problem for the application of the competition rules.
This fragmented regulatory system makes it harder for those involved, who have no clear picture of the legislation in force, and creates an off-putting climate for investment in the sector.
I also think the Commission should establish an overall text defining the legislative framework for telecommunications in a clear and easily perceptible way.
The report's second important issue concerns the significant effect of the rapidity of technological developments.
To be competitive in this sector at international level, Europe must adopt up-to-date legislation compatible with recent technological developments, which will allow for the use of new technologies and offer legal protection to interested parties.
The last point, but a very important one for Europe's position in the world system, granted the international character of telecommunications and the efforts in progress to open up the markets, is that the Community's framework must be compatible with existing regulations in third countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the task that I have to perform is indeed a very pleasant one, namely to report to the House on the highly favourable progress in a procedure that has been relatively closely monitored by all the partners.
The point was accepted.
Now, in Amsterdam, we had two or three countries that, for quite illogical and incomprehensible reasons that go against the interests of their own citizens, have refused.
Innovation in the telecommunications sector can lead to a better service, greater use of telecommunications services and therefore more jobs.
My final point concerns legislation on naming on the Internet.
On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, therefore, I strongly recommend a vote in favour of the amendments presented by Mr van Velzen.
Necessary and timely because the internal telecommunications market still has to be set up on a proper basis and is an issue we should address without delay.
The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights highlights, from the general standpoint, the simultaneity of legitimate interests to be protected - the interests of the industries involved - but, above all, the interests of consumers and also aspects which are not purely economic: for example, aspects relating to the rapid development of technology, or sociological aspects, such as the degree to which each of us identifies with a particular telephone number, the disruption involved for all users - individuals or companies - when a telephone number has to be changed, since this involves an enormous cost which we have to avoid, hence the need for a measure such as the portability or transportability of numbers to be effective.
Apart from these matters, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights concentrated on more methodological issues.
Indeed, I sometimes think the only qualification you need to be a rapporteur in this area is to be a fast reader.
There might be a good case for having a separate directive on these two issues but I would ask the Commission to carry out a further study on the possible consequences of carrier pre-selection.
It is difficult because the speed of liberalization has progressed at very different rates in the different Member States.
I wish to dwell for an instant on the issue of portable phone numbers which is a crucial factor in the policy of competition in the telecommunications sector.
I endorse the principles set down in the Commission communication as well as the recommendations of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I therefore urge the Commission to move rapidly along the course it has set, bearing in mind also the growth in the electronics trade and new services like the Internet.
I am delighted to see that efforts are being made to harmonize various essential conditions in the telecommunications sector.
This is a vital move, because differences between the Member States in terms of legislation on number portability, carrier preselection and carrier selection, for example, and in other areas too, have given Europe a very fragmented ICT policy.
Mr President, today we are debating some of the most important aspects of the complete liberalization of telecommunications from 1 January 1998, and also various dramatic side effects of that liberalization, such as its effect on the numbering system.
Technological developments in the telecommunications sector and the multitude of factors that influence it make the new problems continually more complex and involved.
So definitive decisions about the sector were taken mainly at a political level, while dangerous disregard was shown for the role and contribution of relevant international bodies such as the International Telecommunications Association and the European Conference of Post Offices and Telecommunications, in the development of telecommunications and the necessary international cooperation.
There is also a risk that chaos may be created, or that the market may be completely monopolized by the private giants being created in the sector by mergers and concentrations of large multinational enterprises.
The fact that the new Amsterdam Treaty substantially increased the areas where the European Parliament will be able to take part in codecision is a good guarantee that its interests will be defended with tenacity, but also with efficiency and without loss of valuable time, by the members of the European Parliament.
There is a risk, that the use of a lot of digits in a telephone number, 9-10 digits for example, will cause difficulty for the user, at least this is the case according to information which I have received from the Swedish Telecommunications authority.
Mr President, competition, or rather competitiveness, or better still, the huge business potential in telecommunications lie at the bottom of what has been agreed in the sector.
There cannot be a new society without democracy.
But the fair allocation of E-mail addresses will not eliminate the problem of democracy in relation to computer networks.
I wish to thank Mr van Velzen for what was truly, as always, a very informed report.
That is why we are in favour of carrier preselection.
Here too, we should like to proceed more swiftly, and I hope that the European Parliament can support this approach.
But it is only the beginning, or the end of the beginning, if I may put it that way, and the early stages of the implementation of a competition policy and a competition regime across the entire European Union, even if in some of the Member States there will be some slight delay.
The reason why we drafted this communication is threefold.
Firstly, we wanted to offer greater security to operators in the market and to tell them, in advance, how we were proposing to apply the rules of the game and, by doing this, guarantee the necessary transparency.
In other words, this was an exercise in transparency on the part of the Commission.
Next, - and some of you have quite rightly raised this problem - we are trying to draw a clear dividing line between the work done by Martin Bangemann and his departments, based on Article 100 A, and whatever is covered, in particular the ONP, by other directives based on Article 90.
Lastly, we are witnessing a period of extraordinary growth, not just in the telecommunications sector but also in the multimedia sector.
I should now like to say a few words about the report itself.
But may I say first of all - in relation to the new recital A inserted in Parliament's text and referring to digital broadcasting - that this document, by that I mean our communication, is not the most appropriate text in which to tackle this question.
There have in fact been a few decisions - the case of MSG some years ago in Germany, for example - where as a matter of fact that has played a crucial role.
It is true, and you have rightly put your finger on a difficulty that occasionally obliges us to intervene in certain Member States, even though there are those who feel that it would be far better for these difficulties to be resolved at national level.
Let me take the case of the tariffs in Germany.
Under normal circumstances this type of problem should be capable of being resolved internally by the Member State in question, but right now that is still not the case.
There is therefore a conflict and we are continuing to deal with this problem while waiting for tomorrow when, hopefully, this kind of problem can be resolved at national level.
Winding up, I should like to say that having received your observations and having received dozens of observations from others on the subject of this communication, on behalf of operators, on behalf of the authorities, etc., we shall be in a position this autumn to publish the final version of it.
Mr Bangemann, I did not use my speaking time to talk about this amendment precisely because I find that bilateral disputes between Member States should not take up the time of a rapporteur speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Having said that, you say that you have included Gibraltar in this list because you thought that it was technically better to do so.
Mr Bangemann, I do not agree at all with your referring to this business as a technical measure.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the three reports will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
In the EU, type approval currently exists for tractors with a maximum speed of 30 kilometres per hour.
But as technology has progressed, manufacturers have also placed on the market more powerful tractors, which can travel at 40 km/hr.
It is now intended that new type approval provisions should be adopted, to enable tractors with a design speed of 40 km/hr to obtain EU-wide type approval.
At first reading, Parliament was of course very much in favour of this idea, although it insisted that at the same time various aspects of driving safety should be investigated.
In my view, the response of the Commission and Council to Parliament's demands was very correct.
Now, in this common position, it has been noted that we wish to draw attention to the exhaust emissions of more powerful tractors.
When Parliament debated this matter the first time, it become clear that provision also needed to be made for type approval for tractors with maximum design speeds in excess of 40 km/hr, as these are already beginning to appear on the market.
We have reached a rapid solution which partly covers the present situation by extending the framework to tractors with a maximum design speed of up to 40 kph.
I was quite relieved to begin with when I saw that my friend Mr Barton was not here.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, on the question of the draft supplementary and amending budget for 1997, we have made considerable progress.
However, this year the cooperation between the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets has been very positive.
Moreover, this year the Commission has itself readjusted the estimates so that we will have ECU 329m for the first time put in a special reserve.
As a result of the decision by the Agricultural Council towards the end of June, the budget, as put forward by the Commission, will be exceeded by ECU 1.4bn and we often talk about less money than that in this House.
Creative accounting, as the President-in-Office of the Council said during our trialogue, is the last thing we want.
This means that the budget for 1998 has to be readjusted in the field of agriculture, and it must finally be to the detriment of those products which have been underspending most over the last period.
All this shows that the ad hoc procedure - although in a formal sense still under the category of compulsory expenditure - is finally working.
I see also, apart from the Commissioner, a holder of the Legion of Honour, and I would like to congratulate him most heartily - even on 15 July.
Mr President, I believe we all still recall perfectly that the most significant point regarding 1997 budgets, vis--vis the other institutions, was the matter of zero growth in staff levels.
This is in addition to the increase in the radius of action of controls on the part of the Court of Auditors and the increase in the volume of work.
Let us take into account the extra work they have with regard to agencies and the increase in statements of assurance.
At this point, I would also like to include some further information for those present: purely as regards multilingualism, an institution such as the Court of Auditors requires a 25 % increase in staff.
We therefore concluded that, between what the Court of Auditors was asking for and what we felt it was possible to grant it, the increase amounted to 48 people.
Thanks to the actions of council, which has already granted 5 posts, the 23 I was speaking of for 1997 will, in fact, be 18.
The reason for bringing forward the allocation of posts to 1997, by means of this SAB, is justified, firstly, by the training period such staff needs before being 100 % operational and, secondly, by the margin we had available on account of the favourable exchange rate which has applied to date since the budget was drawn up.
I am referring to the exchange rate between the ecu and the Belgian franc.
Furthermore, these 18 new posts which would be granted at this time (I repeat: 18 plus 5 granted by council equals 23) would break down as follows: as regards auditing: there would be one A3, twelve A7s and three C5s; in terms of administrative staff, there would be two posts: one A7 and one C5.
And so that is all - I am convinced that this increase in numbers of Court of Auditors staff will only enhance the rigour we are accustomed to seeing on the part of that institution and improve, if that were possible, its long-standing cooperative attitude towards Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ad hoc procedure was used for the first time in the 1995 budget procedure.
The tabled report, along with this Thursday's vote, is intended to provide the delegation of the European Parliament with a negotiating mandate.
The ad hoc procedure and the negotiations on compulsory expenditure conducted between Parliament and the Council with a view to reaching an agreement on amendments to the Commission's preliminary draft budget mark the start of the budget procedure every year.
The procedure lays down that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, at the request of Parliament and the Council or of the Council alone, will agree to initiate the budget procedure.
That was done formally on 26 June in the trialogue framework.
In derogation of the agreed procedure, the Council and the European Parliament jointly decided not to complete the ad hoc procedure before the first reading of the Council's draft budget so as to give the Commission the opportunity to obtain more knowledge of the state of the market, on the basis of which it may submit a more realistic draft budget for 1998 this autumn by means of a Letter of Amendment.
Both the Council and the European Parliament must then approve the proposal.
For the first time this offers us a genuine prospect of having an annual budget that is more closely in tune with the real situation; this accords with our earlier decisions on budgetary discipline and better implementation of the budget.
In the tabled report your rapporteur addresses the hitherto unresolved problem of expenditure classification.
In the report your rapporteur also proposes the creation of a special reserve for market uncertainties to which the Member States would only have to contribute if and when the money was required.
Unfortunately, the Council of Agriculture Ministers failed to reach a decision at its mid-April meeting.
We naturally agree with the Presidency's proposal that this should be done without recourse to creative accounting.
The parliamentary proposal before us guarantees budgetary neutrality and thereby strengthens the negotiating position of Parliament.
To the Commission, and particularly to the senior representatives of Directorate-General XX, let me say that you will shortly have to decide who your partners are - the Council or the European Parliament.
What two grade-A officials can do here, 600 grade-A officials in the Commission are unable to manage!
I ask the House to approve the report as tabled, thereby giving the delegation of the European Parliament a mandate to negotiate a fair and balanced budget for 1998.
Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture began discussing this preliminary draft budget as soon as it was published.
Firstly, that we support the Commission's proposal to increase the budget by 0.45 %.
Mr President, at the European Parliament's request, budget heading B7-800 was subdivided into two: the new heading B7-8000 'International fisheries agreements' and the new heading B7-8001 'Contributions to international organizations' .
Within the framework of the ad hoc procedure, an initial report on the implementation of the Joint Declaration on improving feedback from the budget authority on the fisheries agreements of 12 December 1996 was forwarded to the Committee on Budgets.
As regards showing the appropriations in the 1998 draft budget, the Commission has followed the distribution proposed in point 1A of the Joint Declaration to the letter.
The Commission had in fact proposed entering the amounts relating to the international agreements coming into force at the start of the 1998 financial year under heading B7-8000 and to put into reserves the amount necessary to cover agreements due for renewal and any new agreements that may be signed.
The Committee on Fisheries is of the opinion that the sums relating to agreements already concluded and that Parliament has yet to approve could also be placed in the reserves.
In conclusion, there are clearly no differences between the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Budgets in the context of the ad hoc procedure.
For example, under the fisheries agreement with Senegal, which we looked at this morning, we have emphasized the benefits of devoting - as the government of Senegal has decided to do - a part of the European Union's financial contribution to the non-industrial inshore fishing sector, especially in the area of training.
I wish to emphasize quite clearly at this point that the decision which the Committee on Budgets has proposed to the House represents a new departure in staffing policy.
The Commission had initially requested almost 160 posts in order to deal with the BSE problem, a new Community priority.
The second point I should like to deal with is the question of the ad hoc procedure.
Allow me to make a few comments on that.
We shall then be confronted with the problem of funding the oil-seed sector twice over in 1999 - once for the year from which payment was postponed and once for the current financial year, i.e. 1999.
What we are proposing here in the Tillich report is an invitation to the Council of Finance Ministers to comply with its own stipulations.
We cannot undermine this policy in order to create or finance another objective.
That amount of money would finance the needs of a common agricultural policy for the first enlargement.
But we have to remember that we cannot finance a meaningful regional policy for the new Europe out of the present budgetary resources.
I would imagine that it will take at least a doubling of the present structural funds to finance a new regional policy for the new and wider Europe if we are not to create immense dissatisfaction in the countries which join and if we are not to alienate many of the citizens already in the Community.
Through a rearrangement and a paring down of our present policies we can find the resources that are necessary to finance the enlargement of 100 million people.
Mr President, in presenting his proposals within the framework of the ad hoc procedure for agricultural expenditure in the 1998 budget Mr Tillich embarked on a difficult, not to say perilous, exercise.
Given the uncertain situation as regards the attempts to eradicate BSE and in the light of recent events revealed by the Commission, who today can say that the appropriations allocated to Community beef and veal producers have been overestimated?
I was also surprised to find that the rapporteur has included in an annex to his resolution a list of EAGGF budget heading classifications, in which expenditure that the Treaties, in their wisdom, had classified as compulsory expenditure was now classified as non-compulsory.
These cuts are not easy for farmers, either: the annual cuts in EU support are generating constant uncertainty with regard to farm incomes.
There is a need to invest in the longer term in the EU, for example by adopting agricultural policies and budgetary frameworks valid for between seven and ten years ahead.
The concern to make savings in agricultural spending prevails, i.e.
That is because we know that these spending cuts in agriculture - and now in the fisheries agreements - have been adopted in full or in part by the Council and would inevitably go together with other cuts in other budgetary sectors.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Commissioner Liikanen who associated with his own distinguished presence in the House that of the Directorate General for which he has responsibility.
We consider it important that he should be here because he will be able to pass on the message that we are today seeking to send, particularly through this supplementary and amending budget, a message which I at least interpret in this way and which concerns the well-known question of the additional posts for DG XXIV.
It means 310 million added to be added to reserves.
Knowing the problems of the countryside, and more specifically the problems of farming, I can only deplore this token 0.45 % increase allowed for in the 1998 budget and seeing this budget shorn of some 2.4 billion with respect to the guidelines laid down in the Edinburgh compromise.
In his report our colleague Mr Tillich confirms the hidden conversion of compulsory expenditure into non-compulsory expenditure by the ingenious trick of setting up a reserve.
In conclusion, may I say on behalf of our Group that the Council has the final say on so-called compulsory expenditure.
We do not want to accept any kind of devious machination which, through a fictitious increase in the European Parliament's powers, seeks merely to reduce the agricultural budget.
Mr President, the Brinkhorst/Fabra Valls report deals with a very sensitive aspect of the European Union.
Another point I wish to emphasize is the need to grasp every available opportunity to make more funds available for specific measures in the domain of research and development.
If we can deal first with the consumer health policy unit as covered in the SAB, I think that following the conclusions of the first committee inquiry it was quite clear that there was a need for real action to be taken on food safety at EU level.
I would like to stress that the opposition to the initial scheme for a health policy unit was not an opposition in principle to an agency established in Ireland or to the improvement of consumer safety.
What does concern me in the proposal from the Commission for the office in Ireland was the discovery that the Commission had already leased a working area in Dublin, outside the normal places of work of the European Union, for workers whose recruitment had not yet been approved - a fact made even more reprehensible by the existing agreement to freeze staff numbers within the Commission.
Parliament will then have the opportunity to discuss this proposal in full.
Parliament too, in the Budgets Committee, will approve the decision to grant the Commission 35 additional posts to assist with the reorganization of DG XXIV and to improve coordination with scientific committees and in the meantime, thirdly, to ensure sounder and more efficient management.
We can agree on 70 new posts to be created in Dublin as a temporary measure and 35 posts are to remain in Brussels until the vets and phytosanitary agency are properly set up.
Finally and most importantly it has been agreed that the consumer health policy unit will remain in Brussels.
Mr President, the ad hoc procedure for compulsory expenditure in the budget is gaining in importance both in Parliament and in the Council.
However, I have to make it very clear that it is the responsibility of the Commission, the Council and Parliament to ensure that the levels of income of Europe's farmers are maintained, especially at a time when many sectors face extreme financial problems on the income side.
I would like to pay tribute to Jan Mulder for the way in which he tackled these problems.
No one supports fraud, but it exists and it must be stamped out in all Member States.
It must also be remembered that even with the support they have had in the United Kingdom, beef farmers have suffered a serious loss of income and now some face very difficult problems.
This, in the long term, will have a pay-back value through increased consumption of European produce.
This will receive its first reading in the Council on 24 July and in Parliament on 23 October.
We are discussing the ad hoc procedure on compulsory expenditure in plenary today in order to give a strong mandate to our delegation to the trialogue with the Council and Commission and in order to increase transparency and maximize the involvement of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Fisheries in the determination of this mandate.
The key result has been the adoption of a joint declaration on agricultural expenditure, allowing the Commission to submit a letter of amendment to its preliminary draft budget even outside the procedural provisions of the financial regulation.
Such an extension of the ad hoc procedure was a request of the Agriculture Committee, and I would like to emphasize here the close and excellent cooperation that has been established this year between the Committee on Budgets and the Agriculture Committee with respect to the preparation of the 1998 budget.
Given that the Commission has updated its requirements for 1998 for compulsory expenditure with a reduction of ECU 329m, we believe that these appropriations should be placed in reserve, and secondly, that we should not have to resort to any form of creative accounting in order to remain within the 0.45 % increase foreseen for the agriculture budget compared with 1997.
We are glad to be in agreement with the Agriculture Committee's thinking that the review of arable income support is ultimately desirable, but we would take a more positive view with respect to the Commission's proposal of cutting income supports by approximately ECU 1.4 billion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament on agricultural expenditure in the budget is what we describe as the ad hoc procedure.
In October 1996 the Council made provision for a possible postponement of payments to the oilseed sector from 1996 to 1997.
We did not need to take up the option, and to that extent it would not perhaps be very fair to speak of creative accounting in this instance.
On the price package, the Council of Ministers of Agriculture gave a pledge to the Commission to keep the EAGGF Guarantee within the budgetary limits laid down for 1998.
The cooperation between the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Agriculture was open and really quite constructive.
Although it seems likely that a time will come when cuts in income support for arable farmers have to be placed on the agenda, I wish to stress that a radical shake-up of the system is likely to be fatal, especially to farmers in the northern Member States.
In a further amendment contained in my report it was also decided that the payments per hectare envisaged in the CAP reform package should be guaranteed in full for 1998 and 1999.
My special thanks go to our colleague Mr Mulder, who presented a very cogent argument; we fully endorse the points he made.
The first presentation will happen here, in the European Parliament.
The huge speculation in the European press is no more than we have come to expect, but the first presentation of the documents will be made tomorrow in Parliament, so that the honourable Members of the European Parliament are in the privileged position of starting the debate before the other European institutions.
The ad hoc procedure with regard to compulsory expenditure was created by the interinstitutional agreement of 1993.
As far as the agricultural budget for 1998 is concerned, the key factor is that the Council has not accepted the Commission proposal to reduce direct payments in the cereals sector.
The Council has also refused to adopt any equivalent real savings .
The Council has not received much encouragement from the European Parliament either.
Balanced budgetary rigour also requires real budgetary savings in this sector, which absorbs 48 % of the Community budget.
It was therefore an important achievement of the trialogue of 26 June to agree on a letter of amendment in the autumn to take account of the latest information.
Furthermore, the discussions between the Commission and Parliament have already achieved improvements in the forecasts in some sectors which amount to a reduction of needs by some ECU 300m.
I note Parliament's suggestion to put ECU 310m in a reserve for market uncertainty.
Both Council and Parliament seem to agree that the lack of real savings should be offset by a general cut in forecasts across all budget lines.
With regard to the international fisheries treaties, the joint declaration of 1996 on a code of conduct is a very useful framework for the information to be provided and the budgetary consequences.
Secondly, the discussions have also clarified other aspects of the future organization of the services concerned.
I hope that the productive discussions between the Council and Parliament in the context of the trialogue of 26 June 1997 will permit an adoption in one reading.
The Visa Regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers in 1995 only provides a list of countries, citizens of which require a visa in order to enter any of the countries of the European Union.
The concept of mutual recognition of visas was also present in the proposal for the Convention on the Control of External Borders which the Commission presented in 1994.
Unfortunately, as you know, it has not yet been possible to reach agreement on this Convention.
It is quite obvious that Member States should provide visas for these people free of charge.
Therefore I would like to ask the Commissioner whether she regards such overblown bureaucracy as a hindrance to the free movement of people in the European Union.
Given that the planned measures have already been rejected on several occasions by the Court of Justice on the grounds that they infringe Community law: How can the Commission justify its intervention in support of the government of a Member State in connection with this matter, given that the Court of Justice has on several occasions in the past rejected the various proposals put forward by the UK, on the grounds of systematic violation of Community law, and found in favour of the undertakings concerned, recognizing their right to compensation by virtue of the fact that they had acted fully in keeping with the fundamental principles and freedoms enshrined in the Treaty on European Union?
That is the spirit in which there has for more than 20 years now been a dialogue between the Member States and the Commission concerning the national conditions for the allocation of the quotas themselves.
In that connection, the United Kingdom, like all of the Member States, asked the Commission for its opinion on a system of allocating the fishing quotas, based on proof of the existence of a real economic link between vessel and flag, in line with the practice established in other Member States.
On 17 June, President Santer replied, on behalf of the Commission, to the requests for clarification from Mr Blair.
In my opinion, there was absolutely no need for any discussion within the College of Commissioners because there was no new interpretation, nor did anything new arise.
There are therefore no measures which the British Government could apply without prior consultation with the Commission, just as is the case in other Member States.
The President did no more than confirm the existence of these options, which exist amongst others; however, the United Kingdom, before deciding upon any measure, has to approach the Commission which will at that time give its own opinion as to whether the measures could be discriminatory, proportionate or alternative, or not, as may be the case.
Bearing in mind that, according to the Court of Justice, one of the purposes of the quota system is to benefit coastal populations, what a Member State - for example, the United Kingdom - can do is to ask all undertakings without discrimination (and not only those involved in 'quota hopping ' ) what type of economic link they intend to establish with the coastal regions.
I am pleased that Commissioner Bonino has clarified the situation, because there was a perception as a result of the statement after Amsterdam that the UK Government and the UK Prime Minister were given preferential treatment.
In the past year we have been making proposals and suggestions to the UK authorities on how to implement the economic link the Court of Justice talked about.
The Commission will examine the implementation of the economic link in a non-discriminatory and proportionate way once it has received a proposal on criteria from the UK Government.
The UK Government can say to each vessel: in order to get a quota you have to prove that you have an economic link.
Since its author is absent, Question No 40 lapses.
Question No 41 by Sirkka-Liisa Anttila (H-0575/97): Subject: Possible exports of beef from the United Kingdom in contravention of the embargo According to news reports, the United Kingdom may have disregarded the embargo and exported beef to a number of countries, including Holland.
It should not be forgotten that the European Union has endeavoured in a variety of ways to restore consumer confidence in beef, not least by means of a campaign to encourage consumption funded to the tune of ECU 32 m and a system for the certification of the origin of beef.
But in the plenary perhaps I can just recall some basic elements.
The detailed report is available to all parliamentarians.
More than 100 tonnes were sold to European export companies and subsequently exported by these companies to third countries with refunds.
On 7 May the Dutch Ministry of Health informed UCLAF but requested strict confidentiality with regard to the investigation undertaken at the same time by the Dutch prosecutor.
On 26 June the Commission services were informed and on 26 and 27 June an inspection mission was undertaken by the Food and Veterinary Office.
The mission team was of the opinion that the controls on meat are insufficient so to this effect a pre-Article 169 letter was sent to the UK authorities by the Commission on 8 July.
An inspection visit to two Belgian plants took place on 3 July.
On the basis of these findings, on 4 July the Commission asked the Belgian authorities to withdraw the approval of the two companies immediately and on the same day the Belgian Minister of health informed the companies Tragex-Gel and Lefevbre of the envisaged withdrawal of their approval and decided that no meat could leave these establishments.
A specific mission to British companies started on 8 July in cooperation with the UK services and based on evidence provided by the Commission services the competent UK magistrate issued search warrants for different British establishments, possibly involved in the illegal traffic.
Mr Cunningham confirmed to me yesterday by phone that he will withdraw approval from the two companies concerned.
Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Bonino for her excellent answer.
I would remind you that the Commission has 27 veterinary inspectors for 15 Member States, to deal with all the legislation, third countries' imports and so on.
However, I must confess to this House that we are late with inspections in other fields which are of enormous importance.
But with only 27 veterinary inspectors - and I cannot clone them, because that is forbidden - we cannot do much more.
What does concern me is that the inspection and supervision systems are not working, and that some Member States continue to breach the regulations.
You should also be aware that, in the next few months, we will be drafting a report on inspection systems.
This could give this House and the Commission the chance to discuss the issue, comparing the two methods and the two experiments, and to decide which is the better method.
I am giving the matter some thought, but I think it would be better if we were to gain a little more experience with this method so that later we can draft a report for discussion by Parliament and the Commission, enabling us to work out how we can improve it.
I hope that not only this crisis but also the greater awareness among consumers will push Member States to at least speed up voluntary labelling as far as possible.
Given that its author is absent, Question No 42 lapses.
The Commission is therefore planning to introduce the possibility of programme contracts into its revised general conditions for cofinancing with NGOs.
The Commission has already made use of this instrument, notably in the field of humanitarian aid, through the framework partnership contracts.
The framework partnership contracts were instituted in 1993 and provide an overall legal framework for relations with humanitarian agents, that is to say NGOs and international organizations, thus helping to streamline and expedite procedures for managing humanitarian operations.
I would like to thank you for your very positive response which pleases me a great deal.
The objective is to help NGOs to prepare properly for the demands for financing, reporting and so on and so forth.
As you know this has been handled mainly on a geographical basis.
The European Commission has participated in the framework of the socalled Donors' Democratic Development Group in Kenya in the drafting of a joint declaration on free and fair elections later this year in Kenya.
The Commission considers these four points as an irreducible set of conditions to arrive at free and fair elections in Kenya.
On 6 May the declaration was handed over to President Daniel arap Moi.
The events which took place last week in Kenya, during which 14 people died in violent confrontations sparked off by police efforts to break up rallies called to press for constitutional reforms, proved that the situation is deteriorating and that the need for dialogue between the government, the opposition and the donor community is all the more necessary and urgent.
As he will be aware, the economy and the security situation in Kenya are worsening.
Indeed the recent storming of All Saints Cathedral and the beating of the Reverend Timothy Njoya are just one example of this.
We all know that press freedom exists in Kenya but we are also aware that radio is the only means of communication with many remote areas.
During the visit I made to Kenya I myself made it clear to President arap Moi and his team that we would be willing to cooperate and even intensify our cooperation, but that our conditions are clear and have been clearly restated in the revision of the Lom Convention, particularly in Article 5 on civil rights and political rights, but also with regard to good governance.
Question No 45 by Clive Needle (H-0511/97): Subject: Commission steps to eradicate polio in Africa Will the Commission set out the steps it is taking to assist the eradication of poliomyelitis by programmes of vaccination in developing countries, with particular reference to Africa?
Mr President, in Africa in particular, the Commission is already engaged in a major effort to support vaccination programmes.
I would be grateful to know what response you made to the letter you received from President Mandela of South Africa in March on behalf of a number of organizations broadly representing a coalition whose aim is to kick polio out of Africa.
We accept that in some instances this service cannot provide the vaccination routine which is well established in many African countries and for all the diseases I referred to.
It is a flexible approach and so far the countries have been happy with it, either opting for the reinforcement of their normal programmes or, in other cases, having a campaign to raise awareness in the population.
It is very difficult to say No to Nelson Mandela.
Question No 46 by Glenys Kinnock (H-0556/97): Subject: Conflict prevention and development Does the Commission support the general principle that security assistance should be integrated into development programmes in conflict prone regions (the 'security first approach')?
The Commission continues to attach great importance to the issue of conflict prevention.
The Commission has taken the lead within the European Union on the dialogue with the Organization of African Unity, in particular with regard to assistance to the OAU conflict mechanism.
The Commission was also the driving force behind the adoption of the common position and Council conclusions on conflict prevention and resolution in Africa, adopted by the General Affairs Council on 2 June 1997.
These documents reflect the main ideas and recommendations of the Commission's communication on peace building and conflict prevention in Africa of 6 March 1996.
The Commission was also instrumental in bringing about the resolution on coherence adopted by the Development Council on 5 June last in which peace building and conflict prevention feature as a specific theme.
The latter two documents are fully complementary and they give a very firm basis for a number of concrete activities in various fields.
Those documents confirm that development assistance has a prominent role to play in peace building and conflict prevention.
I believe that politics - functioning political systems - is the key for Africa's wellbeing.
Our communication on conflicts in Africa in early 1996 has spelled these problems out in very clear terms.
In this sense I fully support the idea that, in principle, security assistance should be integrated into development programmes in conflictprone regions.
To that end the Commission took a more strategic approach during the programming of the Lom IV second financial protocol.
I just wish to add that these strategic papers were for the first time drawn up after prior consultation of the Member States, the World Bank, UNDP and, in some instances, the United States.
I naturally welcome the reference he just made in his reply to including security within the framework of the Lom Convention.
May I ask the Commissioner in what practical, tangible ways he will ensure that it is actually incorporated into Lom?
I thank Mrs Kinnock for emphasizing the importance of conflict prevention and the fact that it is not present in the Green Paper as it should be.
Nor are other aspects such as human and social development or the gender issues that the Commission dealt with very recently.
Otherwise we will be going round in circles without tackling the real problem.
As its author is absent, Question No 47 lapses.
Two grants were awarded from the European Regional Development Fund for Benbecula Airport under the Highlands and Islands National Programme of Community Interest during the period from 1988 to 1991.
I should like to put the Commissioner on notice that I am interested in the answer but I think we should go further.
The decision, in fact, was taken back in 1988.
As its author is absent, Question No 50 lapses.
Mr Titley, today is not the best time for such a question, because - as you know - the President of the Commission will be presenting Agenda 2000 and the various changes that will influence the Structural Funds programme.
You will be aware that the current Community initiatives come in for heavy criticism because they are too numerous and because there are too many single programmes relating to Community initiatives.
Of our overall total of 800 programmes, 400 relate to Community initiatives.
However, this only applies to about 9 % of all Structural Fund resources.
Mr Titley, I understand your arguments in favour of KONVER, and I am also aware that there was a very specific reason why KONVER has been important to certain regions.
However, I would ask you to bear in mind that it will be very difficult to maintain all our activities at the present standard as well as doing even more in other areas.
But please remember that, since some parts of KONVER were extremely late in starting, an evaluation will not be possible until we can determine some results.
A few conferences of KONVER regions have already taken place.
I am aware that Agenda 2000 is to be presented tomorrow, but I wanted your opinion on whether such restructuring operations are going to continue, moreover, owing to Community prerequisites, owing to the powers the European Union has under the ECSC Treaty, something which will continue to affect countries such as Germany, Spain and even France.
In this context, the Commission asked the Capitals Network to make representations in connection with the regional development strategy currently being devised in the framework of the European regional planning blueprint; as you know, this blueprint deals with the urban system in the European Union and the different functions performed by individual towns and cities.
In its communication of May 1997 on European urban development, the Commission invited interested institutions to join it in a dialogue.
Allow me to inform you that capital cities, insofar as they are cultural, financial and political decision-making centres, have the highest concentration of services in the country in question, but that this concentration also makes them a centre of attraction for local immigration and immigration from third countries, resulting in a most appreciable increase in the marginal population, the unemployed, and the consequent depopulation and impoverishment of the surrounding region.
Moreover, the relatively high income levels of that sector of the population which is genuinely in work diverts Structural Fund aid towards other regions.
Hence my question, Madam Commissioner, is whether, in new Objective 2, referred to in Agenda 2000, the Commission intends to examine, amongst the eligibility criteria, the situation of such regions which include the capital city - they have a highly specific problem, are often the focal point for a great many citizens, even for a Member State, yet to date have not received structural aid.
I would therefore ask such cities, as we have already asked the capital regions, to describe their problems to us, because I feel it will be more fruitful to deal with the various problems in the framework of municipal and urban-policy initiatives, irrespective of whether these problems occur in capitals or in other cities.
Given that its author is absent, Question No 59 lapses.
Question No 60 by Anne McIntosh (H-0440/97): Subject: Recognition of ski instructor qualifications in France What action will the Commission be taking to guarantee the proper implementation of the applicable legislation to recognize ski instructor qualifications in France, avoiding the practice of aptitude tests being used to discriminate against non-French instructors?
Mr President, the Commission is well aware of the problems encountered by ski instructors with British diplomas in having their qualifications recognized in France.
The proper application of the new provisions of French law will have now to be established in practice, and the Commission intends to continue working towards this.
The Commission has also sought to set up a dialogue between the British Association of Ski Instructors (BASI) and the French authorities.
The aim of that initiative is to encourage bilateral discussions of the conditions governing recognition of the BASI first grade diploma.
There have already been meetings between French officials and representatives of the British Association of Ski Instructors.
As a founder member of the European Union, the French Government ought to know better, and it ought to know that, as the Commissioner has said, it is in flagrant breach of both the Treaty provisions on the freedom of establishment and, in particular, the implementing directive which, I may remind him, was adopted in 1992.
On behalf of the British skiers, many of whom have written to both myself and other British MEPs, could he please tell us at what point a British national holding a British diploma will be able to take a position on equal terms under Article 7 of the Treaty with a French national?
We cannot forget the two French decrees.
If this is the case, the Commission may decide to take action.
The Commission has just received the elements, in June this year.
If we cannot get this issue right, what chance and likelihood is there of getting all the other, very many more complex issues put to right?
I share your view that this free movement of people, in a broad sense, is essential to the single market.
Since its author is absent, Question No 61 lapses.
Moreover, similar incidents in past years led the Commission to bring proceedings for infringement under Article 169 of the Treaty, and that case is currently pending before the Court of Justice.
There is no doubt that if the Court of Justice finds that France has failed to fulfil obligations under the Treaty and if the measures adopted by the French authorities do not remedy that situation, the Commission would be able to bring an action under Article 171 of the EEC Treaty and, in this case, ask the Court to order France to pay a lump sum or a fine.
The Commission drew the attention of the Member States to that point in the opinion published in February 1996 on the occasion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Thereafter in the action plan for the single market, the Commission made it clear that where there are serious breaches of Community law with grave implications for the operation of the single market, the Commission ought to be able to adopt urgent measures against the States in question, by imposing penalties, if necessary.
However, the Intergovernmental Conference came to an end without any amendment to that effect being inserted into the text of the new treaty.
But the Amsterdam European Council did itself ask the Commission to consider how to guarantee the free movement of goods effectively, including the possibility of imposing penalties on Member States, and asked it to submit proposals on this before the next meeting of the European Council in December 1997.
Mr Commissioner, the Intergovernmental Conference was disappointing in this respect, and remains so.
I believe the European Commission is doing much more than people are aware of.
I understand your frustration, Mr Commissioner, but you have to understand that ours is greater because, as the previous speaker mentioned, we are still faced with an unsolvable problem.
The Commission accepted only 9 of the Parliament's 26 amendments and the Council has accepted even fewer.
The Council's common position has made further changes to the Commission's text.
I also chose to retable amendment 24 for the first reading, that is now amendment 3 of this recommendation, calling on the Commission to submit before December 1999 a new draft regulation to further extend the scope of the present proposal.
By way of introduction to my second report on cabotage, I think it may be useful to give a brief historical account of this proposal which has had a curious fate and, I must say, a very tortured route.
On 23 July 1992, the Council adopted Regulation No 2454/92 laying down the conditions under which non-resident carriers may operate national road transport services within a Member State, so-called cabotage transport operations.
At the same time, the Court ruled that the new operative part of the regulation should remain in force until new legislation had been issued.
Following Parliament's first reading, the Commission accepted 9 of Parliament's 16 amendments but the Council regrettably only accepted 3 of these.
Moreover, the admission to a national market of passenger services provided in the context of international transport constitutes a first step in recognition by the Council of the principle of cabotage within the Community territory.
For these reasons I am not submitting many of the amendments adopted at first reading that were not accepted by the Council, because I realize that the common position does represent an improvement on the previous legislation.
Amendment No 1 of the draft recommendation therefore seeks to encourage the Commission in its future efforts to liberalize the sector, taking account of Parliament's previous position.
This amendment refers to the final declaration which the Commission has annexed to the Council's common position, stating its commitment to preparing new legislative initiatives in this sector on the basis of reactions to the Green Paper on the citizens' network.
Amendment No 2 emphasizes the European Parliament's incontrovertible role of scrutiny, specifying that the Commission will undertake to inform Parliament of the operation both of the regulation in question and of the regulation annulled by the Court of Justice.
The Commission should in particular submit before June 1998 a report on the operation of the old regulation, and before December 1999 a report on the operation of the present regulation, on the basis of data collected periodically by the Member States.
In conclusion only 2 amendments are being retabled at second reading.
However these are amendments which summarize Parliament's determination to remain vigilant with regard to cabotage and passenger transport services within the Community, in the name of the principle of free movement of people and freedom of establishment in the internal market and more generally in the interests of the European citizens.
Our group, as we stated at first reading, welcome the Commission proposals which we believe will bring about further liberalization in this sector, in particular simplifying the rules applying to international passenger coach and bus services.
Whilst I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for his efforts, I share with him his disappointment at our failure to make much progress on our amendments.
In particular, we ought to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, for example, the improved wording of the definition of occasional services will greatly simplify the application of the regulation and contribute to the development of a more efficient sector.
Taken together, I believe these particular proposals are worthy of the support of this Parliament at second reading.
I now turn briefly to the proposals for non-resident carriers operating national road passenger transport.
My group shares and applauds the objective to establish the freedom to provide transport services and eliminate all discrimination against carriers on the grounds of nationality.
The objective is to ensure compliance with the Treaty and, in particular, the single market.
Taken together with the other measures that I have mentioned the abolition of frontier controls means that we will now see cabotage systems extended to all transport services by bus or coach operators, including regular services.
I welcome these measures.
The abolition of the current restrictions will enable transport companies to optimize the management of their activities and the profitability of their vehicle fleets.
In conclusion, the Socialist Group is pleased to support these measures because they will create a new fast-track system, where bus and coach services can be operated for the good of the bus companies themselves, the passengers, the economy and the environment.
Madam President, I also would like to congratulate the Commission on reaching the stage of the common position and the rapporteur for all his hard work on these two proposals.
However, I wish to express my concern, and the regret and disappointment of myself and the Group of the European People's Party that progress towards liberalization in this field is painfully slow.
Regrettably, the possibility of non-resident carriers being able to operate national road passenger services within another Member State is still severely limited.
The benefits of the proposals before us this evening for coach operators are both tangible and positive.
This streamlining of procedures will only be slightly offset by the need to review the Community licence every five years, which, of course, is part of the proposal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the two reports by Mark Killilea, we are now reaching the end of a very important legislative procedure for the passenger road transport sector.
I am convinced that the adoption of these texts and that of the application regulations are going to give a fresh boost to the transport of persons, offering a greater choice of services at more attractive prices.
These obviously go hand in hand with a greater opening of the passenger and goods transport markets.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like the rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party sees the Council's position as an important step - although not the final one - in the process of liberalizing international transport.
In our opinion, the rapporteur's last amendment is also logical if, as I said to begin with, we do not regard this as the final step.
I can only explain that I was engaged in intense discussion with my Member of the European Parliament in my office on the vexed subject of the painting of our kitchen and, consequently, was detained longer than either of us intended.
Instead the Council reached a compromise so that the protection clause will be maintained until the end of 1999 and then replaced by a safeguard clause.
I can assure the House, however, that this is already provided for in the existing text, and I therefore ask honourable Members to reflect on that, especially since on this rare occasion the wording proposed by the Transport Committee would not bring any greater clarity to the existing provision.
While the Commission will, of course, draft a report on the application of this regulation, it is simply not realistic to do so before the end of 1998.
The regulation will be adopted in or around October of this year and will enter into force about 12 months later.
The situation of bus cabotage is satisfactory, although the position of the Council is not as ambitious as that proposed by the Commission.
I may also add that the Commission will review the situation of regular bus services that are excluded from the scope of the present regulation when we consider the revision of the regulations concerning public services, as we stated in the citizens' network Green Paper last year.
I am also pleased to advise the House that the Commission will accept a redrafted version of Amendment No 1, as well as part of Amendment No 2 - that part which dealt with the report on the application of Regulation 2454/92.
And even when a form of words does not subtract from any of that, it always remains inferior to something that adds to it.
What I was able to tell Mr Titley is that we have already achieved the legislation necessary to ensure the universal installation of seatbelts in new coaches and, indeed, in all coaches manufactured towards the end of this decade, throughout the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Even more importantly, however, the committee has also reached an agreed position on toll and user charges.
As we see it, the Commission's next step should be to produce its White Paper on the internalization of external costs, and also the study that was specifically requested in the Schmidbauer report, giving evidence of the external costs of all modes of transport.
In committee, the Commission representatives described our draft report as very realistic.
For the sake of good cooperation, I hope that the Commission will accept all Parliament's proposals, because it is very rare for a parliament to agree by such a large majority on a report on such a difficult issue.
However, I also believe that it is incumbent on the Council to lose no time in adopting a common position on the basis of our opinion and the accompanying opinion from the Commission, because the directive will still have to be transposed, and the hauliers who are affected by it will have to be informed in good time of what they will have to deal with on 1 January 1999.
Finally, I should like to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the committee secretariat and also the representatives of the Commission.
I wish in particular to say that as far as the assessment of the proposal that has been submitted by the Commission is concerned, we welcomed the introduction of the possibility of an external cost element in the tolls and user charges, and in fact we considered it necessary to improve and clarify those aspects further on the basis of proposals and amendments.
Moreover, we thought it right and necessary to extend the concept of sensitive itineraries, presented in the Commission proposal, to cover sensitive areas so as to avoid shifting traffic from those roads defined as sensitive to more vulnerable and less safe roads in the area concerned - viewing the whole of the Alpine zone as a sensitive area, for example.
I wish to make it clear here that, since the Committee on Transport and Tourism has also inserted the reference to the Alpine Convention as an amendment in the recitals, I think it is right to say that the whole of the Alpine zone, and not just the Brenner, should be taken into account in the directive.
We have only to bear in mind that, between 1970 and 1995, transport through the Alps increased from 28 m to 112 m tonnes and that the bulk of that increase was accounted for by road traffic.
Despite all the various discussions that have taken place in the Council, no decision has yet been reached and, if my information is correct, it is quite possible that the final outcome - the talks are to continue on 4 October - will still be different from what the Commission proposed.
My group continues to believe that both external costs and the sensitivity of certain areas must be seen as key elements of a balanced transport policy.
Several years ago, one of Commissioner Kinnock's predecessors, his present colleague Mr Van Miert, asked a committee of experts to produce a report on the impact of the heavy increases in transport.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and thanking him for his efforts in seeking out - and finding - compromise proposals.
In my opinion, and that of many of my colleagues, imposing charges on road transport will not help to revive other forms of transport, such as rail or water.
However, the proposal before us does not yet offer any guarantee that the suggested charges will have the same impact in all the Member States.
Finally, I should like to welcome the rapporteur's proposal for reviewing the minimum rates by the year 2001.
Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and also the Commissioner, because with New Labour he is going to have a new colour in his kitchen, which I am sure will be a very pale shade of pink!
As things stand at present, with road transport accounting for 75 % of the modal split, despite Parliament's repeated calls for greater use of rail and inland waterways, road transport looks set to remain the main mode.
But the proposals put forward by both the Commission and the rapporteur make far too little distinction between the most environmentally harmful and the better classes - from Euro, Euro 0, Euro I to Euro II - providing absolutely no incentive to change to an improved version.
Last year in my country, there was a 3.5 % reduction in nitrogen dioxide - NOx - emissions as a result of using Euro II.
We therefore need to promote the use of Euro II and Euro III.
Situated in the centre of Europe in geopolitical terms, Austria is also a sensitive Alpine region which is difficult to cross.
Identifying sensitive areas in the EU and specifically defining the whole Alpine region as a sensitive zone would seem to be far-sighted measures which point the way ahead.
Madam President, the directive on toll and user charges is long overdue, and has been since the annulment of the first version by the Court of Justice in 1995.
The directive that we are discussing today goes significantly further than the first proposal, and I have to welcome that in principle.
As rapporteur on the Commission's Green Paper on internalizing the external costs of transport, I see the Commission proposal as a first step towards the practical implementation of a fair pricing system, based on the principle that the polluter pays.
But if the rapporteur intends to use the Transport Committee's compromise decision and the airing of the issue in the press this week as a way of finally burying discussion on the internalization of external costs - and it is the press coverage which has given me that impression - then I have to say that my group will not go along with that; because while there may be problems with some elements of the Commission proposal, particularly as regards the charging structure, the overall intention means an improvement in the whole approach to transport - and, most importantly, a fairer system is to be introduced that will spread the burden of costs according to the principle that the polluter pays.
The first of these was to charge infrastructure costs to road vehicles, the central issue in the harmonization of costs and taxes.
In 1986, the Commission submitted a document on the abolition of distortions in fiscal jurisdiction where the carriage of goods by road was concerned, that document envisaging taxes on vehicles, taxes on fuel and tolls.
The proposal was, in fact, modified twice - in 1990 and in 1992 - in an ongoing attempt to find positive solutions.
The reason is none other than the accumulation of interests surrounding road haulage and the various methods used for charging and not charging existing costs in the Member States.
Questions, opinions and amendments have led the Brenner Pass to be identified as more or less the pilot case to study how transit could and should be managed in a so-called 'sensitive' zone.
I therefore agree with the differences between Euro 0, Euro I and Euro II, but subject to compliance with the rules.
The whole question of the Alpine region and the traffic pollution there is a European problem.
This is not a matter of local interests, although of course it is also very important to the people who live there; the point is that we have to find a European solution, because the Alps are a European problem and not just an Austrian, Swiss or Italian one.
Madam President, my group has asked me to speak on this issue, which is not within the sphere of my particular competence.
I feel it is also important to win the support of the Commission and the Member States, as well as backing from the general public.
My second point concerns Annex III.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the European Parliament is addressing the question of a European road tax for heavy goods vehicles, and once again we have sparked off a radical debate about the whole issue of road haulage.
The same applies to the sensitive corridors that were referred to in the Commission's original proposal.
This applies particularly in the case of the Brenner route.
What I would like to see - as would many of my colleagues - is a single solution for the entire Alpine region, in other words all the countries that are signatories to the Alpine Convention.
What we need here is a uniform set of rules for the whole Alpine region.
It really is of paramount importance that we should recognize how traffic is polluting this sensitive Alpine region.
In its proposal, the Commission merely allows for the Member States to include a component in their charges to cover external costs, but the maximum amount would be ECU 0.03 per kilometre.
It would enable the Council to give the Member States in question the power to add a cost element to toll charges, so as to achieve a sustainable distribution of traffic in the Alpine region as a whole.
As I said at the outset, I reject the notion of charging external costs solely to heavy goods vehicles, but I would emphasize once again that I am prepared to support the compromise amendments as a whole, because I hope that a start is at last being made towards recognizing the interests of Austria and the sensitive Alpine region.
However, the gradual changes to the current heavy goods vehicles taxation and charging rules in the Community proposed in the directive strike the right balance between what is needed and what is feasible.
Whilst I welcome the emphasis the House places on external costs - and I also understand the desire for tabling a comprehensive proposal for all modes in the near future - we have to be pragmatic, make progress and we have to do so when it is possible in a practical manner.
I therefore cannot accept the proposal in this report that even the limited provisions relating to external costs should be deleted pending an all-encompassing measure.
That is an important signal and I consequently reject Amendments Nos 9 and 17.
Linked to the issue of external costs is, of course, the concept of sensitive routes and the possibilities which it could offer for introducing a differentiated charging system.
The new provisions in the proposed directive relating to sensitive routes are important during the period - and I emphasize that - when the more sophisticated technical charging means are being developed.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 14, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22.
The fact that the idea appears in a report which is otherwise dedicated to completely obliterating sensitive routes, is testimony to the inventiveness of honourable Members.
However, I cannot accept Amendment No 7, since the notion of sensitive areas is impractical.
The whole world after all is a sensitive area.
I can, however, accept Amendment No 3, which calls for a reference to the Alpine Convention.
However, I acknowledge that they are not the most fundamental elements of the proposal, so I can accept Amendments Nos 3, 5, 11 and 12.
I can also accept Amendment No 13, which calls for a regular review of the vehicle taxes.
On Amendment No 1, which has been referred to by several speakers, I appreciate the efforts Parliament is making to be consistent with itself.
However, the main point is that differentiation of vehicle taxes, according to infrastructure damage, expressed by reference to total vehicle weight and to air pollution propensity, as expressed in the form of the Euro classification, is not only possible, it is relatively simple and also widely accepted by Member States.
Next, I believe there is no need for simplification of the structure of the minimum vehicle taxes, as proposed in Amendment No 24, since that structure is the same as in the existing directive and no complaints have been made by Member States on this point.
Turning now to the amendments on user charges, I can accept Amendment No 9 calling for differentiated usercharge rates during rush hours and night-time provided, of course, that they fall within the maximum levels allowed.
That is in line with a desire for differentiation in charges across time.
I can also, subject to some redrafting, accept Amendment No 15, which proposes a 50 % reduction of user-charge rates for vehicles from peripheral regions.
This again, however, must obviously be limited in time.
With regard to levels of user charges and their structure, I wish to stress that the maximum annual user-charge levels proposed in Amendment No 26, ranging between ECU 1, 000 and 2, 500, are simply too high.
The classification of vehicles into three categories according to the damage they cause to the infrastructure, would lead to an alignment of rates with real cost that is better than that which is possible from the current user-charge systems and also better than an alignment which would result from a rate differentiation based on the number of vehicle axles, as proposed in the amendment before the House.
On the remaining amendments tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which do not fall as part of a precise theme, I have to say that Amendment No 4 does not lead to any specific legal provision in this directive and must therefore be rejected; whilst Amendments Nos 8, 10 and 23 can be accepted.
Having gone through all the proposed amendments in detail - with the exception of Amendments Nos 27-42, which I addressed in detail on a previous occasion - I wish to reiterate that the Commission's objective in tabling this proposal is gradually to evolve an improved differentiated road-charging system in the Community by ensuring the charges are closer to real costs and fair to users and non-users alike.
I hope that, on reflection, all Members of the House will be able to share this pragmatic and progressive report.
Mr Kinnock, our rapporteur must have had some idea of the answers that you were going to give because he asked me for the floor even before you expressed yourself.
We have to discuss this today and vote on it tomorrow, because the fact is that the Council is trying to avoid taking a decision on a European road tax, and one of its excuses is that Parliament has taken no decision.
I should like to make two points to the Commissioner, however.
We normally have a very open relationship, Commissioner, but what you have presented us with today was not a genuine debate.
Secondly, Commissioner, you are here to defend your original proposal, but in the light of what we have heard from the negotiations in the Council, I have to say that your position is a long way behind the position which the House is seeking to adopt today.
Madam President, I should like to make a suggestion that would save a great deal of time in debates of this kind.
Madam President, I am very grateful, especially since it gives me an opportunity to make an offer that if honourable Members will turn up for their amendments and put them without notice to the Commission, then they will be able to dispense with any form whatsoever of intelligible, cogent answer that addresses their questions.
Madam President, I am very surprised by the tone adopted by the Commissioner this evening, whereas during the preparatory work there was an excellent atmosphere in our relations, between the Commission and its services and ours.
I think that everyone here was taken aback by this enumeration of the amendments that have been refused, often without very detailed explanations.
After that rather lively debate, which shows the interest that members and the Commissioner all take in this matter, I declare the debate closed.
Madam President, I welcome this opportunity to present our views on the Commission communication for a European aviation safety improvement strategy.
Indeed the Transport Council of Ministers confirmed the creation of such an authority on 20 June this year.
Our intervention this evening is therefore very timely.
We therefore propose that the European Parliament should be represented in the advisory committee which assists the executive body of the organization and that the executive body produce an annual report of its activities and presents this to the European Parliament.
We wish to express our concern at the ever-increasing demand for air transport, expected to double by the year 2010, obviously placing an unprecedented pressure on our safety.
The figures in the UK alone are that in 1986, 86 million passengers used British airports.
Ten years later this figure was 135 million passengers.
Without a liberalized market of aeronautical products, increased costs and additional constraints on the European industry are incurred, reducing its competitiveness.
We need to ensure the maintenance of the highest level of safety, bearing in mind the increased air travel in Europe and worldwide, and the increased competition from third countries, especially the developing countries.
In the context of the separate proposed directive for a safety assessment of third country aircraft using European Union airports, we must aim to achieve a system of safety checks similar to port state control in the maritime transport sector.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism recommends that the European Union should draw up a blacklist.
In my view, a more conciliatory approach would be to give third country carriers a helping hand, particularly in the use by them of satellite navigation and other modern technology.
The proposed European aviation safety organization should establish binding rules with regard to safety aspects of civil aviation, especially with regard to operation and maintenance of aircraft.
The measures we propose, taken together with an improved air traffic control system should, we believe, improve air safety throughout the European Union.
This week Boeing has estimated that with this increase in numbers, there will be one major accident per week in 2010.
Liberalization must not mean a reduction in safety standards.
There is going to be another report on this - I will not go into details.
In my own country British Airways is a prime example of what can happen with uncontrolled liberalization.
We must also note that paragraph 15 states that all luggage must be screened and security tightened.
It is now possible, say on a return flight from Manchester to Luxor, for a pilot to work non-stop for 17 hours.
Finally, I agree with the rapporteur that we must eliminate the possibility of air transport following sea transport and using flags of convenience for ships and crews.
It is a challenge which these manufacturers take very seriously, but it is also something which we can influence, in the first instance perhaps by increasing our efforts into work on preventative safety.
The second point I would like to make is that of including safety as a feature of the competition between airlines.
I also share the rapporteur's worries about the continuing increase in demand for air transport which will put extra pressure on safety.
We cannot accept the forecast risk of one serious accident a week in twenty years' time - if we stick to current safety levels.
Increased competition has increased the number of flights and the number of companies, saturating airport capacity and threatening passenger safety and that of people living nearby, in proportions that have nothing to do with the increased number of passengers.
I share the concerns of staff and users, I understand the battles fought by employees, especially those working for British Airways, where the first major strikes are taking place to protest against a plan to reduce wages costs by 30 %!
European air transport needs more than ever genuine cooperation between airlines, governed by the criteria of public service that alone are compatible with high safety standards.
Air safety also needs transparency and democracy.
Staff and their representatives, users, elected officials, need new rights to intervene in commercial decisions.
Madam President, air transport has become considerably more democratic.
The proposal for a Directive on foreign aircraft safety, for which my colleague Mr Gonzlez Trivio is rapporteur, is a useful companion.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 February last year, 189 people lost their lives when their Birgen Air flight crashed off the coast of the Dominican Republic.
This is not the first time that the European Parliament has debated questions of aviation safety.
The Council has in fact accepted the most important elements involved, as it made clear at its meeting in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 June this year.
I would ask you to tell us, Commissioner, whether any action has yet been taken in this respect, in order to provide for real control over all aircraft - be they from third countries or, in particular, from the European Union - which are identified as being in any way suspect during ground inspections.
Air travel is widely expected to double over the next ten years, and the European aviation industry has said that if we maintain current safety levels, there will be one major accident a week in 20 years' time.
If we are to meet this challenge, we need to have a joint approach from all those involved, and technological developments such as satellite systems must be fully exploited.
Madam President, many sensible things have been said by my colleagues this evening, so I will get straight to the point.
So we cannot just let things take their course and say that we just need a certain degree of liberalization etc.
I will merely welcome the Commission's initiative and stress that I support the Commission in this project and, of course, the rapporteur too.
I congratulate the rapporteur and the Committee on Transport and Tourism on addressing certain issues relating to aviation safety, but I am afraid they have failed to address the problem of cabin baggage, a problem that both airlines and cabin crew admit not only exists, but is now causing concern.
The reason for these regulations is that baggage within the aircraft cabin should not obstruct or restrict passengers in the event of an emergency evacuation.
My amendment merely reminds the airlines and the national civil aviation authorities of their responsibilities.
As the report notes, work on several of the initiatives described in the Commission communication has already started.
That proposal was one of the main initiatives for immediate action that we announced, and it is already before this Parliament and the Council.
And there is a certainly a need for the dissemination of this type of information to be properly organized.
As the House might know, there is no blacklist in existence anywhere in the world.
The only list published is in the United States of America and that is one which rates the aviation authorities of countries according to their capability to fulfil their safety monitoring obligations.
I hope therefore that on reflection honourable Members will agree that the blacklist approach would not have the accuracy, or the detail, needed to provide customers with authentic and relevant information.
The report also mentions a number of other safety-related subjects such as measures to improve survivability and to reduce injuries in the case of accidents.
I can confirm to the House that the Commission has actively supported research activities in this area and will continue to do so.
A number of other developments suggested in the report, such as the establishment of a European database of obstacles around airports, the prevention of illegal trade of unapproved spare parts, which is a lethal practice, or the drafting of a technical regulation concerning maximum number of passenger and maximum load to be carried on an aircraft are all currently dealt with by national authorities in the European Union and elsewhere.
The Commission will continue the initiatives already started and will devote its attention to a number of other safety issues in the future.
In these activities, as in others, we continue to value greatly the support and the innovative thinking of Members of this House, as evidenced again in the report that we have discussed this evening.
Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his reply.
The debate is closed.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has explicitly welcomed all the harmonization measures which the Commission has proposed - increased requirements as to financial standing, personal reliability and professional competence - and the extension of the scope of the directives.
Our committee and the European Parliament Committee of Inquiry also tackled another issue which I regard as very important.
As rapporteur, I support Amendments Nos 1 to 14, tabled by the Legal Affairs Committee, but cannot support Amendments Nos 15 to 17.
Madam President, this proposal is a consequence of the progress that has been made in the creation of a common market in road transport.
The bad news is that the proposal refers amongst other things to the public authorities and their checks on transport firms.
God knows what she will be capable of in 18 months!
Firstly, I am happy to accept those amendments which clarify the text and make the proposal more consistent in all its linguistic versions.
Thus Amendments Nos 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11 will be accepted, subject to minor redrafting where appropriate.
It is important to re-emphasize the Commission's determination to counter fraud in this sector and its desire through this legislation to remove the cowboys.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 7, in order to allow flexibility to an undertaking in temporary financial difficulties when assessing the financial standing criterion, although redrafting may be necessary to eliminate doubt on this issue.
Amendments Nos, 2, 5 and 14 modify the transitional arrangement period for Austria, Finland and Sweden to take account of their European Economic Area membership.
However, I consider that the transitional period should be consistent with that applied to previous new Member States and should therefore be calculated with reference to their date of accession to the European Union.
Amendment No 6 - which presumes that candidates who have already fulfilled their professional competence requirement, should not be requested to so a second time - arises from a misunderstanding of the Commission proposal.
Our proposal simply requires Member States to check that undertakings are employing a person at managerial level who fulfils the professional competence criterion.
Amendments Nos 12 and 13 seek to set out in detail one aspect of the knowledge to be acquired during training for the professional competence examinations.
I have to say that these amendments add too much detail and would require candidates to have an unreasonably detailed knowledge of a particular area of specialized customs legislation.
Therefore, for practical reasons and for reasons of fairness, I cannot accept these amendments.
Amendments Nos 15, 16 and 17 all propose the deletion of references to minor offences so that they should not be taken into account when considering the good repute of an operator.
We all share the desire to improve the standards of road transport operators within the Union, to reduce the existing disparities between Member States and to develop a consistent set of criteria to ensure that only reputable operators remain in the market to provide high-quality services in the interests of their clients and society at large.
I, therefore, welcome the support of this House in those efforts and I trust that the support will continue.
I should like to thank the House for its attention and the interpreters for their services.
The debate is closed.
