You can see that I am here in the Liberal centre and intend to remain so.
Mr President, after debating the Green Paper ten years ago we are today debating the Commission's White Paper on an energy policy for the European Union.
But I am even more grateful that they have accepted 90 % of Parliament's resolution on the Green Paper.
I should like to thank Commissioner Papoutsis and his staff very warmly indeed.
After these words of praise one can only expect there to be some comments on the White Paper, particularly three points of the proposed indicative work programme of the Commission.
First of all the White Paper proposes that the share of renewable sources of energy should be increased in the total energy production and consumption within the European Union.
I am disappointed by that because the political will is present in many Member States to undertake positive action in this area, and to do so now.
In addition to that, Mr President, we mention improvement in the access to the electricity grid for renewable energy, for example by making the purchase of renewable energy obligatory, the 'non fossil fuel obligation' as it is called in Britain, or a return guarantee of renewable energy produced on a small scale.
The Commission must also develop a financial programme together with the Member States to promote renewable energy, such as a study into the green VAT, tax relief on investments in the field of renewable energy.
Once more this is an area in which the Commission can prove its added value.
The motion for a resolution points to very specific proposals in this field.
Organising regional energy conferences in central and eastern Europe to examine how their energy policy can be best supported and improved.
I eagerly await the Commission's reaction to the specific points in our motion for a resolution.
The European Parliament agrees with a Commission indicative work programme on condition that it accepts additions from Parliament's resolution.
The broad guidelines adopted by the European Council in Lisbon, Corfu, Essen and Cannes bear witness to the European Union's intention to draw up a long term programme for its relations with Mediterranean countries.
The European Union and its Mediterranean partners are facing the same challenges and this certainly requires a coordinated response, possibly through the creation of a multilateral programme which embraces Europe and the southern and eastern Mediterranean countries - a Euro-Mediterranean Forum.
Our objective must be to conclude renewable energy agreements with Mediterranean countries likewise interested in the development of renewable energy technologies especially given their specific geographic, political and strategic characteristics.
So we need to succeed in building our future in this sector both by developing those instruments which are already available to us today inside the European Union, and through - this is what Mr van Velzen was saying - a more open and involving energy charter.
The European Union, aware of the importance of trade in the energy sector, has already set out proposals to provide electricity to the various Mediterranean countries, including Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia.
International actions have in common the fact that they are geared to the development of markets and infrastructure to meet the future increase in imports of gas into the energy markets of developed countries and, above all, of developing countries.
To guarantee the spread of energy-related technology, in particular for renewable and non-polluting sources, there needs to be close cooperation between technicians and scientists in the countries concerned to provide a transmission mechanism for technological information.
In this regard, the importance of creating a Euro-Mediterranean Forum is stressed at the end of my report, to act as a catalyst for information drives and support functions for the institutions and for companies, preferably local.
Finally, Mr President, this cooperation between the European Union and the eastern and southern Mediterranean countries should include a transfer of technology and a system of investments geared to promoting projects of regional integration, social development and environmental protection.
Mr President, in deference to the Commissioner here present I shall seek to avoid any reference to wind farms in or from Wales.
It has produced an excellent analysis of gas supply in Europe and we in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy have had to think hard to make some constructive suggestions and additions.
This, combined with opening up the markets for electricity in some Member States and new more efficient combined cycle gas turbine technology, has brought about a rapid change.
In my constituency in South West England, consumers are enjoying the cost benefits of the structural changes made in the electricity supply industry, amounting to a 20 % reduction in prices in real terms after allowing for inflation.
Finally the report calls for a review of our dependency on gas when it reaches a nominal share of energy supply of 25 %.
This communication and report are important in the run-up to the gas directive which we hope will follow close behind the electricity directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that this oral question on renewable energy sources, i.e., biogenetic raw materials, is being dealt with in the context of the discussion on the White Paper on the European Union's energy policy.
That should be our motto for the future too when we talk about using energy.
Since the use of fossil fuels, we have seen an increase not only in the tempo and volume of production, but in pollution too.
Unfortunately the Commission's White Paper of December 1995 only devoted one and a half pages to this energy sector.
The production and sale of renewable energy sources are regarded as a promising new market in agriculture.
These set-aside areas could be used for planting renewable energy sources and if 10 % of the electricity was produced from biomass this long-term and continuous source of revenue could also reduce the need for agricultural subsidies.
The Commission wanted to send out clear signals when it set up the ALTENER I and II programmes.
Mr President, I thank the Commission for the forward-looking report it has submitted.
I agree that it is an important task to create security of supplies in Europe by importing energy from third countries - and in particular by building up contractual relations with the main oil-producing countries in the Middle East - but here too I would like to add the criticism that in general the White Paper describes security of supplies in Europe too one-sidedly against the background of a rising dependence on imports.
Furthermore, in this context I believe it is extremely important to give precedence not only to environmental protection and security of supplies but also to external economic interests together with employment policy aspects.
At a time when, God knows, there is a shortage of innovative ideas on how to create new jobs, the technologies for improving energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources could represent an exciting export prospect for Europe, with a view to creating new, high-grade jobs in industry and trade.
Otherwise we run the risk of losing out in the competition that already exists in this field with Japan and the USA and thereby wasting new chances to create jobs.
And finally, Mr President, the aim of cooperation with regional and local authorities must be to ensure that energy policy guarantees efficiency, decentralization and, of course, respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
Mr President, I must say I am a little baffled by the procedure being adopted.
In answer to the questions, since 1993 when the ALTENER programme began 274 pilot projects have been financed, 60 of which related to biomass exclusively and another hundred of which covered several renewable energy resources including biomass.
However, it can be estimated that at least a half of the ECU 38m made available to the ALTENER programme between 1993 and this year was allocated to biomass.
Turning to the question concerning the results achieved by the ALTENER I programme, when this programme was adopted the Council did not set precise objectives for the programme but instead set policy objectives for the Community as a whole for 2005.
The progress made in recent years together with the enlargement of the Community has increased from 4 % to 6 % the share of renewable energy resources in total energy consumption.
By making additional efforts it is possible to foresee the achievement of the 8 % objective and the trebling of the production of electricity from renewable energy resources by 2005.
However, the objective of a 5 % share for biofuels in motor vehicles' total consumption appears to be very difficult to achieve, especially given the continuing uncertainty surrounding the tax treatment of biofuels and the availability of raw materials at an acceptable cost.
The ALTENER II programme should therefore continue the measures launched under the initial programme.
On the question of coordination between the different directorates-general concerned with biomass, as requested by the European Parliament in the Mombaur report which has already been referred to in the debate and as provided for in the energy policy White Paper, the Commission is now preparing a document concerning a European strategy for renewable energy resources, the aim being to arrive at a consistent and transparent framework for the various schemes to promote renewable energy resources.
With regard to Commission thinking on the use of biomass as a means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, I report to the House that since biomass and energy from waste now account for nearly 60 % of production from renewable resources, biomass will play a fundamental role in increasing the contribution of renewable energy resources to our energy supplies and in efforts to combat the greenhouse effect which is essentially attributable to CO2 emissions from fossil fuels.
The Commission has encouraged research and provided support for the production of biofuels, in particular biodiesel.
It has also proposed a tax framework under the so-called Scrivener Directive which is still before the Council.
The last question concerns the future of this sector.
As the House will know, the Commission recently started an in-depth analysis of the development of renewable energy resources in the European Union.
A first strategy document will be submitted to this Parliament very shortly, followed by a programme proposing the priorities for action on renewable energy resources, including biomass.
Mr President, it is regrettable that we are having to discuss this White Paper in an inappropriate legal framework.
Equally scandalous is the attitude of the Council of Ministers towards SAVE II in its budgetary suggestions.
I also deplore their attitude towards the Rational Planning Directive which is a piece of legislation which would allow us seriously to tackle the question of energy efficiency in the distribution sector.
As far as energy from renewable energy sources is concerned, every foresight programme undertaken, including that in the UK, has identified this sector as being of tremendous importance, including wind energy, photovoltaic energy and, of course, biomass.
I want to turn now to the potential of the fifth framework programme of research and development in the energy sector.
I take pleasure in emphasizing the interest displayed by the report in a chapter which I feel concerns me particularly.
The chapter on renewable energy sources, and especially recital c) and paragraphs 5 and 12, gives a succinct but clear description, which I would indeed call excellent, of the importance of such sources, above all in isolated regions.
This does not, of course, mean that I deny the importance of conventional energy sources; I could hardly do so when Algerian gas is starting to reach Spain, and from Spain, Portugal and the rest of Europe, through so major a structure as the gas pipeline linking Algeria across Morocco with our continent and our Union, but of course I give a greater welcome to the emphasis which this report has placed on permanent and renewable sources of energy and on energy saving.
Just before the Barcelona Conference a special conference was held in Athens on the transfer of renewable energy technology from Europe to the central and southern Mediterranean countries.
I believe its conclusions should be borne in mind, although, and I deplore this, they received little consideration and I think the Spanish presidency at the time paid insufficient attention to the matter in the conclusions of the Mediterranean Conference held in Barcelona in the following November.
Mr President, the European Community has proposed sizeable resources, those of the MEDA Plan.
As regards the strengthening of competitiveness, it is essential to guarantee a level playing field for competition between the different Member States as well as greater transparency.
But it is also necessary to define and in the end to take particular account of the interests of private consumers, the public service obligations and the organization of the debate.
It is essential to support environmental protection and the use of clean, and therefore sustainable, energy and, particularly in the immediate future, to provide for sound and appropriate management of the waste generated by the production of energy from both fossil and nuclear fuels.
Finally, we must draw up an Energy Charter with the Mediterranean countries and, in this connection, I stress the importance - as has my colleague Mr Scapagnini - of setting up a Mediterranean Institute providing information, training and support for the energy policy.
And although the rapporteur, I was pleased to hear, called this morning for more money to be spent on research into renewable sources of energy, the White Paper and the report mention nuclear energy as a necessary option.
That is also the context of sustainable development in which my group wants to situate the whole problem of energy.
That is how my Amendment No 1 to Mr Chichester's report should be viewed, that the Commission must invest in renewable sources of energy as an alternative and not in coal; we shall also support the Greens' amendment which speaks of inexhaustible sources of energy instead of sustainable sources.
eastern Europe our environment ecu is still more valuable than in the Union.
The Union should not just promote the export of nuclear technologies but also of energy efficient technologies, such as heat-power co-generation.
We regret that my amendment to this effect was rejected by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
An increase in consumption will also increase emissions to the atmosphere, intensifying the greenhouse effect and environmental concerns and going against the formal undertaking we have made to adopt a model of sustainable development which shows respect for nature.
Of course this involves the following aspects: such a continuous increase in consumption forces us to rely on eastern Europe, or southern France, we are creating maelstroms of social and economic instability and we are seeking to introduce programmes which will make this easier.
But we have to note that the encouragement of sustainable development in the Mediterranean contradicts the need for continuous consumption.
The van Velzen report emphasizes the importance of sustainability, which is not a strong enough focus of the Commission proposals.
I must, however, clarify that the preferred terminology is sustainable development or sustainability requiring in environmental policy the promotion or focus on renewable energy sources.
If Member States wish to continue with nuclear technologies, the industry as a whole needs to be evaluated to ensure that measures are taken within a programme which puts the principle of sustainability at the centre of decisionmaking.
With regard to energy efficiency, it is absolutely regrettable that the Council has not supported Parliament and the Commission on the SAVE II programme and that the Council has not adopted energy-efficient measures in the energy sector.
In even more concrete terms, we shall, after a kick-start in 1987, speak of the internal electricity market and particularly of Article 90(2) on services in the common interest, on public services - even if some European leaders have a tendency to smile when speaking of 'public service' .
In other words, Mr van Velzen, the main theme of your report is a plea for renewable energies, with a whole series of sympathetic measures, even if they are a little naive, like the green VAT, the CO2 tax.
And in the end, you have succeeded, you and your colleagues, in presenting a report on energy, on electricity, on light, and in plunging the whole debate into darkness.
In fact, there is a contradiction in this whole business between the overall aim of formulating an energy policy - and we are all agreed on the objective - and the philosophy expressed particularly on page 12, paragraph 21 of the van Velzen report on the privatization of the energy sector, on removing the link between production, transit and distribution.
In relation to Council practice, Mr Van Velzen's report might well seem to represent a combination of options, since it offers a menu which is currently limited in the European Union: clear backing for renewable forms of energy, recording of an evident shortfall in the European Union's performance, definite support for sustainable development - largely contradicting everyday practice - energy saving as a basic requirement in the face of relatively widespread wastage, because we have an enemy in the low price of energy, control of CO2 , which is difficult to implement, aspects of regional policy and the inclusion of local authorities.
I am sorry Mr Scapagnini is not with us on this, but his report also has the full support of the Socialist Group.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think I can say that very wide consensus is developing in this highly important debate, and I would just like to express a few thoughts prompted by the basic issues before us.
The principal issues relate to security of supply and technological efficiency in the use of available energy sources.
On the first point, security, there cannot but be agreement on the very important ideas contained in the speeches by Mr van Velzen and Mr Scapagnini.
The question of efficiency would, in my view, be better handled by greater stress on and greater conviction about the role of the market and competition in this most important sector, approaching the matter from the supply side.
I shall restrict myself to mentioning issues that have already emerged: greater efficiency in converting existing centres, combined heat and energy production, and the promotion of new investment, including private investment, in this crucial sector.
Community energy policy has three purposes as we have repeatedly stated: energy price competitiveness, security of supply and environmental compatibility.
The real difficulty is to reconcile the three objectives and rank them in order of importance.
In the case of natural gas, it seems to me that security of supply must be the predominant criterion because of the special characteristics of this sector.
In the final analysis, the Commission should adopt measures for the natural gas market which facilitate the entry of new operators prepared to invest, while the option of access of third parties to the network should, in my view, remain a national decision.
Mrs Plooij has already gone into that.
Commissioner, in my country, for example, these costs are written off on the basis of 4, 000 megawatt power produced, whereas there are only 400 megawatt.
So we must produce an effective excise policy and create a level playing field between alternatives such as combined heat and power, biomass and the like.
Mr President, Commissioner, I know from experience as commissioner in a public utility that all alternatives are nearly all put aside in favour of large-scale energy production, and here the Commission has a major task of creating a level playing field.
From this point of view, I am pleased by the united trade union front created in France against the July 1996 agreement of the Council on electricity, which opens the market to competition to the exclusive benefit of large consumers, once again mainly industrial firms.
The report of the Committee on Energy deliberately understates this aspect and accepts the arguments in the White Paper, although it does ask for gentler and better controlled liberalization.
After expressing pleasure that the White Paper devotes more attention to the ecological aspects of energy policy, the report puts forward interesting proposals concerning renewable energy sources which enrich our debate on the issues involved in energy policies.
I can demonstrate that by the following points: there is something about renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in every report on environmental protection, the subject is always discussed volubly in them, but when it comes to allocating money, we spend 1 % on renewable energy sources and 99 % on dinosaur energy, namely the nuclear industry, although we all know what the consequences are.
Everybody also knows that the technologies of the future are definitely those relating to renewable energy sources, namely solar energy.
We are indeed all aware of the importance and considerable international repercussions announced in the objectives of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, such as promotion of political stability in the region, creation of a free trade area and an increase in support measures for Community programmes associated with these countries.
We cannot fail to take advantage of this opportunity to bring together the peoples bordering the Mediterranean who are affected by and interested in this project, which offers great potential for the future.
Mr Scapagnini's brilliant report, on behalf of the Committee on Energy, Research and Technological Development, emphasizes that - in view of the interdependence between the countries of the European Union and the Mediterranean, particularly as regards the development of the infrastructure, trading relations, environmental protection and energy supply - the energy partenariat would build strategic cooperation to take every advantage of environmental and demographic balance, but above all it could promote the development of a stable integrated geopolitical area involving the regions of coastal third countries.
I do not want to go into that in detail but merely say to Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz that it is simply not true that we spend 99 % of our funds on nuclear energy and only 1 % on renewable energy.
The ratio is very balanced, and that is partly thanks to this Parliament.
There is not a sitting here in the European Parliament at which we do not say something about CO2 .
By the end of this decade CO2 emissions will be 6-7 % higher than in 1990 even though we have always decided to do the contrary here.
In principle we have four energy sources: renewable energy sources, i.e., the sun, fossil energy sources, nuclear fission and nuclear fusion.
These products can also help the EU to honour international obligations such as those arising from the Rio Convention on Climate Change and can meet environmentally sensitive market requirements such as the use of biofuels, for instance in shipping.
Mr President, the European Union has supported studies, research, measures and other actions in the field of renewable energy.
That is why we agree with the joint motion for a resolution proposed by the Commission so that we should take greater action and show more obvious political will in the promotion of the use, above all, of biomass as an energy source, because this could help to lessen emissions of CO2 and also because, by extension, it could also mean that we make greater use of arable land which is not currently used for food production or which is completely abandoned.
On this subject, we should also be dealing with the development of a forestry policy in many Member states, especially in regions where little has been done so far, despite their special features and potential.
I should like to reiterate and emphasise, finally, some of the most important points of a genuine Community energy policy which might lead to greater and better application of renewable energy sources, such as biomass and biological fuels: better research in the field of energy, especially into renewable energies and energy efficiency; better dissemination of demonstration projects, especially in the peripheral, ultra-peripheral and island regions of the European Union which use renewable energy sources; greater financial support for public and private investment into the use of biomass and other less common renewable energy sources; the concession of tax breaks for the production of energy on the basis, exclusively, of renewable sources; greater technical and technological cooperation in the field of renewable energies and, also, in the rational use of energy between Member States, and between Member States and third countries; stepping up information, education and public-awareness raising in various Member States about renewable energy; lending open support to the creation of energy and environment agencies in European regions and third countries; cooperation between action strategies by the European Union and other countries, even in other continents, in order to preserve a proper balance in our planet which relies, undoubtedly, on greater and more decisive use throughout the world of renewable sources for producing energy.
Mr President, Mr Scapagnini has presented a report on strong cooperation on energy between the EU and the Mediterranean countries.
It seems as if it is extremely easy to lecture other countries on what form their energy policies should take but that when it comes to the EU's own energy and research policy it is much more difficult.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the author of the report on the energy White Paper and to make some general comments.
All the energy saving and all the energy efficiency measures have not halted, still less reduced, overall energy consumption.
These are the lessons that we have got to learn if we are going to make sense of our energy strategy.
I want to add a brick to the edifice built by Mr Jacob and Mrs Schierhuber as regards the positive repercussions of these initiatives on agriculture and rural affairs.
The technical tables show that biomass is the number one source of renewable energy and in less than thirty years, in liquid, gas and solid form, could become highly competitive with traditional forms of energy.
First of all, we can give scientific research more substance, make the farmers in this case, but all European citizens too, understand where we want to go and how we will get there, and above all promote knowledge of this scientific research.
So the programmes being proposed in this field need to be given more substance.
Mr President, the energy policy of the future must be based on sustainability, recycling and renewable energy sources.
Nuclear energy and fossil fuels do not meet these requirements and must gradually be phased out as forms of energy.
Mr President, can I say that I welcome any discussion about the possibility of making a greater use of biomass in the production of energy.
I regard the production of electricity or district heating from biomass as a most important contribution to the development of sustainable energy supplies in the EU countries.
But biomass is only one part of a sustainable energy policy and we should not let our concern with biomass make us forget other possibilities, in particular the natural heat of the earth and hot springs, which can make a very major contribution to energy production.
So I hope the Socialist Group will not lend its support to the amendments from the Greens because that would break the consensus we had reached in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
I only said I was surprised that he argued so strongly in favour of renewable sources of energy and that that had not always been his stance, but that he had also expressed a preference for nuclear energy.
Now I have to reply to three very substantial and worthwhile reports compiled by Members of this House, the products of very great efforts by them and I have been allocated only five minutes.
A number of points are raised in the resolution concerning competitiveness and in particular the internal market for electricity and gas.
The common position of the electricity internal market directive which is currently under discussion in Parliament has accommodated most of the amendments tabled by Parliament during the first reading.
The Irish presidency has recently presented a draft compromise to the Council regarding the internal gas market and the Commission hopes for rapid progress in this matter in the Council on 3 December.
The White Paper on energy policy can of course only give the general orientations and objectives for energy policy leaving the detailed aspects to be developed.
As announced in the White Paper a strategy for the promotion of renewable energy resources is under preparation.
Turning to Mr Scapagnini's report on the Euro-Mediterranean energy partnership, I am glad to note the consensus on the energy partnership issue as shown in the draft report.
The energy forum is now being set up and it will be a flexible instrument for ensuring cooperation between all the countries involved as well as industry and the banking sector.
With regard to the concrete proposals contained in the draft report, the launching of a demonstration project 'ENERMEDVILLAGE' is an interesting idea which we will examine.
The draft report before the House suggests setting up two institutions - an agency and a Euro-Mediterranean institute.
The communication looks at the present and prospective European Community demand and supply outlook to the year 2020, at external relations and at certain market developments with reference to the possible impact on supply security and the security measures currently available to the gas industry.
This mandate from the Council will obviously constitute a basis for Commission work on gas supply and security in the coming months and we will launch as soon as possible a major study which will cover the main aspects of security of supply at European Community level.
We will start discussing these issues with the Member States and the gas industry in the next few months and I am absolutely certain beyond any shadow of doubt that this House will maintain its active interest in the issue and continue to pack into the pews when I next make a report.
Waste management should meet the same requirements throughout the Union, in order to prevent any malign potential 'tourism' in an area without frontiers.
For this purpose the principle of proximity should be applied.
Kittelmann report The report before us contains a series of excellent considerations which clearly emphasize the need for a strengthening of the international competition rules within the WTO.
Such developments could have very serious consequences for our industry, if we take account of the real effect of dumping by countries such as India or Pakistan.
The European Union's policy should be directed towards global and effective liberalization of the market, and from that position we must work to ensure that trade agreements with India and Pakistan lead to an opening of their markets in the textile sector and that Community requirements on the environment, welfare protection and intellectual property are met.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very often that we are able to vote in favour of a report dealing with international trade.
In fact, even though it is not clearly stated, it is the only report I have seen in this Parliament which establishes a link between internationalist free trade, relocation and unemployment, which criticizes the fact that there is no effective access for European textiles to third country markets and which demands the greatest resolution in the fight against fraud and for the protection of a major sector in the European Union, still employing 2 million people.
In fact, it denounces - in veiled terms because it is only concerned with textiles - what we have been denouncing here for many years: the ideology of internationalist free trade that is fatal to our economies, this commercial game in which the European Union is alone in applying the rules in the name of dogma.
The Commission is always amplifying and accelerating the globalization process by signing free trade, association or other agreements with the rest of the world, without ever really studying the harmful consequences for whole sections of our industry.
The debates we have had this morning on the implications of international free trade for the textile industry in Europe seemed to me rather unreal and somewhat far from the practical consequences of these agreements as experienced by our citizens.
I fear, Mr President, that these families, that these workers will be demanding an explanation from the Commission and from all the elected representatives who have encouraged or allowed such a programmed dismantling of our industry.
We all know how much international trade agreements have affected many industrial sectors.
In the face of the communication from the Commission, which in several places makes no bones about mentioning future sacrifices of jobs in this sector under the pretext of adaptation to the international structure of trade, the report by our colleague seems to me constructive and a better guarantee of the defence of the textile sector and employment in it.
To do this, however, as emphasized in the report of the Committee on External Economic Relations, conditions allowing fair and genuine competition must be guaranteed at international level.
I repeat this, since I have already questioned the Commission and the Council on the matter: it is possible to circumvent the most favoured nation clause of the GATT by introducing a social and development tax on textile imports, making it possible to guarantee welfare entitlements and employment for the sector in the Union and to use it in the context of our policy of cooperation with, and development towards, those countries with low labour costs.
GATT resolution The conclusion of the GATT agreements barely two years ago and the related effects are now certain.
That is why the Committee on Agriculture calls on the Commission to give its position on export refunds in the context of the new situation.
In the case of butter and skimmed milk powder there have hardly been any price fluctuations in the past months.
The Commission must introduce a more flexible system so that it can react better to market changes.
High stocks also exert heavy pressure on the market and therefore on prices.
The peace process following the Oslo accords opened a door to hope and to Arab-Israeli peace.
I am not endorsing various sections of this report because I do not believe they advance this process; but I do believe that the present Prime Minister must clarify and define his position, and this is the reason for the vote cast.
I believe that the Member States of the EU should take action through the UN Security Council in order to achieve peace in the Middle East.
It is through the UN that we should act to resolve conflicts in the world.
Mr President, I have no desire to be grandiloquent, but the Committee on Budgets unanimously believes that its report on the ECSC's budgetary future should begin by paying tribute to the pioneering role of the ECSC in the building of Europe and its undoubted contribution to peace in Western Europe.
The ECSC achieved a high level of institutional supranationality.
The competent decision-making bodies have resolved not to extend or renew the ECSC Treaty when it expires on 23 July 2002.
This can be done by incorporation in the general budget or by some ad hoc structure.
My colleagues will give the views of some committees which are particularly affected, but as general rapporteur I should like to put forward our main conclusions: firstly, the European Parliament, as legislative and budgetary authority, should be associated with the whole process of incorporation.
Secondly, the equivalence between phasing out and phasing in must be respected; in other words, the transfer of ECSC activities to the general budget cannot involve a loss of finance for these activities.
The Commission on Budgets believes that incorporation should entail the development of a specific industrial policy against Category Three of the Financial Perspective.
The general view is that the Fourth Framework Programme, which already absorbs 61 % of Category 3 of the Financial Perspective, would be hard pushed to include most of the present ECSC research programme, including the social research already in progress.
Finally, the ECSC is involved in lending and borrowing operations extending in some instances to the year 2019, which raises the matter of the famous reserves.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Colom i Naval for his excellent report which several other committees have contributed to.
The most important requirement for us on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that those areas which are heavily dependent on coal and steel production should not lose the advantages and benefits that currently ensue from the current ECSC Treaty and that Europe should continue to aid those areas in restructuring their local economies at a time when coalmines are being closed and there is an over-capacity of steel production in the world.
What we believe in, firstly, is that the funds remaining from those ECSC reserves when the Treaty expires in 2002 should be put into such an agency because they are the Union's own resources.
Sadly it expires in 2002 and we must incorporate it into the Community budget.
This report starts the process and points out many of the problems and poses many questions to the Commission.
In my opinion, this is a fundamental question and I have no hesitation in stating that the UPE Group is in favour of a foundation and not in favour of an agency.
Although the agencies set up three years ago with the aim of funding their development themselves are in fact managing to achieve this very effectively, particularly the Alicante agency, I do not think that the agency system, related as it is to a concern for profitability, is compatible with what we want for coal and steel.
Research, still an indispensable tool in making progress, is intimately connected with the future of coal and steel.
That is why, since this report calls on the Commission to carry out a study with a view to the establishment of a foundation or agency, the possibility of a foundation should be carefully examined, with a cost-benefit analysis of the two formulae.
As you know the Commission took its final position on the expiry of the ECSC Treaty back in 1993: at that time the Commission adopted a working paper updating its last communication to the Council on the future of the ECSC Treaty and the financial activities in particular, in which account was taken of the trend, on the one hand, towards reducing the levy and, on the other, to releasing the reserves due to diminished borrowing and lending activity.
In addition, in a communication of the same day on the future of the ECSC Treaty and the borrowing and lending operations, the Commission provided the Council with information on a possible EIB takeover of certain ECSC financial activities.
Finally, in June 1994, the Commission took note of the agreement reached in the Industry Council on the adjustments to the borrowing and lending policy with a view to the expiry of the Treaty, and decided to limit the term of new ECSC loans to 23 July 2002, with the possible exception of loans guaranteed by a Member State.
In reality, the Commission substantially sees two problems in what comes after the ECSC: the first is to ensure a good outcome to the budgetary operations, including both the liquidation of the commitments undertaken up to 2002, and the financial operations relating to loans still in being in 2002.
In other words, the Member States are required to guarantee the good outcome of all financial operations still in being in 2002.
For this reason the Commission has recently confirmed its willingness to approve, in 2002, an adequate reserve corresponding to 100 per cent of the loans in being at that date not benefitting from the guarantee of a Member State.
In summary, then, the Commission needs to make a series of proposals to the Member States guaranteeing a good outcome for operations in progress, but it must also decide whether or not to maintain the specific features of the ECSC as regards research in the sector in a form still to be defined.
In this connection the Commission undertakes to prepare a communication for the Industry Council meeting of 2 February or 17 April 1997.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to set out briefly the current state of the Commission's ideas, but obviously the debate is not over and I am sure we will have other opportunities to discuss these questions again.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Protection of animals during transport The next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions to the Commission: B4-1219/96 - O-0238/96 by Mr Funk, Mr Böge, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, Mr Goepel, Mr Provan, Mr Virgin, Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, Mrs Klaß, Mr McCartin, Mrs Schierhuber, Mr Mayer and Mr Sonneveld, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on implementing the amended Directive 91/628/EEC on the protection of animals during transport; -B4-1221/96 by Mr Fantuzzi and Mr Görlach, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on implementing the amended Directive 91/628/EEC; -B4-1225/96 by Mr Tamino, Mr Ripa di Meana, Mrs von Blottnitz and Mrs McKenna, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on animal transport conditions.
Mr President, I think what has shaken all of us here in recent weeks were these dreadful pictures we all saw of the loading and transport of live animals.
Mr President, I also turn to the Commissioner, Mrs Bonino, here present, to set out, with great sorrow, a situation which has been deplored for years, because I realize many colleagues, like many citizens of the Union, have been shocked to learn certain things and see certain pictures.
Usually there are no suitable places at these frontier areas for looking after animals, which have to stay in cattle trucks in the sun, or in freezing cold in the winter, and in the majority of cases they are not given enough food and water.
Just recently I denounced not only the case already mentioned, at the port of Trieste, but also the case, not far from Trieste, of transport through customs at Gorizia and Fernetti Prosecco, where there has likewise been full documentation of the utterly unacceptable conditions animals are left in.
Even the problem of BSE would have been less serious in extent if this choice had been adopted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to say why we are holding this debate here today.
Let me also say that the people in the countries of destination have a right to good-quality meat.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a general reply or, rather, a single reply to the three questions that have been put, and then deal with more specific points which have been raised during the debate.
The conditions of animals during transport to third countries, which have been discussed a great deal over the last few weeks, are of particular concern to public opinion, as honourable Members have said here.
The Commission is following the situation very closely in order to guarantee proper conditions for the transport of animals in third countries.
In this connection the Commission has intensified contacts with more third countries to find a solution and examine the possibility of having specific rules for the transport of animals out of the European Union.
As honourable Members know, the basic directive was amended in 1995, thanks to the considerable support of the European Parliament and the majority of the measures adopted must be incorporated into national legislations by 1 January at the latest.
Measures relating to additional criteria for vehicles used for the transport of animals by road, for journeys of a duration of over eight hours, and minimum criteria for stopping points will be in force by 1 January 1998.
If it should emerge from investigation of these cases that the incidents were caused by inadequate application of the directive on the part of the authorities of the Member States, the Commission will consider the possibility of starting infringement procedures under Article 169 of the Treaty.
To increase the level of protection of animals transported in third countries, the Commission's services are examining the possibility of revoking the export repayments to those exporters who have not fully respected current provisions on the welfare of animals during transport, which seems to me exactly in line with Mr Funk's proposal in this debate.
The Commission can say that the day to day application of the directive is, as everyone knows, the responsibility of each Member State.
The Commission's Veterinary and Plant Heath Inspection Office ran a programme of missions to the Member States in 1995 and 1996, to examine the adequacy of the implementation measures adopted by Member States and check the conditions of transport of animals at markets, abattoirs, collection points and frontier posts.
To come now to the question of the allocation of the ECU 2.5 million in the 1996 budget - an issue which has been raised here - I must say that this amount simply does not allow the Commission to take on extra staff to post to inspection but we have been considering how to use the sums available in the optimum way.
This is a possible option, which could include inspection of animal transport at frontier control posts, using and strengthening, for example, information and training for those with direct responsibility in the sector, and collecting data on the legal application of the measures by Member States whenever infringements of the rules on animal welfare are observed.
All these points need deeper examination, but the Commission would like to confirm here that despite the complexity of the organizational, financial and legal situation - which is different but important - both in the States of the Union and especially in third countries, it will continue to present proposals intended to improve conditions for animals.
When the Council agreed the new transport rules in June 1995 reference was made to the importance of extra veterinary inspectors to be taken on by the Commission to enforce the directive.
That directive was passed in 1988 and so far not one inspection has been carried out.
An episode, while serious and certainly to be condemned, has become the subject of debate in the European Parliament and been grafted onto a working method, onto relations between states, onto relations between producers and consumers of an animal product, and I do not think things in Italy are any different from other states.
Certainly, when it comes to the transport of live animals many factors come into play; everything seems cruel, every touch seems a torture and perhaps that is really the case.
Italy also took an immediate initiative with this letter from the Ministry of Health, which many Italian colleagues will have to hand, sent on 12 November, two days ago.
The response was immediate.
Mr President, every week 2, 000 horses are transported from eastern Europe to the European Union.
I have listened to Commissioner Bonino.
And finally a plea to my colleagues, particularly my German and Italian colleagues, that they urge their own national authorities to make border checks more effective.
Ask Professor Cabrol.
When Brussels envisages, without turning a hair, the slaughter of 11.5 million British cows, the symbol of tenderness, of gentleness, whose only milk is equivalent to mother's milk, this means a pile of cows 11 kilometres high, or one and a half times as high as the Himalayas.
Those specific points should be specifically tackled by the Commission.
With export subsidies available of up to ECU 400 per head, it is hardly surprising that both honest and unscrupulous traders are hardly rushing to take up alternatives.
Directive 29 lays down precise criteria for the transport of animals so that they do not suffer and also to ensure product quality when meat intended for human consumption is involved.
As regards Trieste, we all know inspectors made a spot-check of the veterinary facilities and they were passed as suitable.
But honourable Members are well aware of the budget drama and the whole debate you yourselves have had.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an area of the Treaty covering relations between the Commission, the Member States and, of course, these organizations.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The war crimes tribunal in The Hague is doing useful work.
Mr President, on 30 and 31 October the Subcommittee on Human Rights held a hearing in Brussels on the question of impunity and the need for an international answer - a really difficult question.
President Cassese clearly described the powers and powerlessness of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, whose success or failure depends, he said, on the value states attach to the principle of morality in foreign policy.
In this sense impunity can become a threat to law and order, especially in unstable democracies.
If we want to find a new international system of laws governing this worst form of crime, the Tribunal in The Hague must be able to function efficiently and in fact become that model.
We have often been updated on the position and we all know that UN Security Council Resolution 827 obliges states to cooperate fully with the tribunal which, has no executive and has to rely on the states in order to operate.
We also know that many people charged by the tribunal, for whom arrest warrants have already been issued, are free and the states they are living in are doing absolutely nothing.
In particular, we know that in the Serbian Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the information services have been able to contact criminals already sentenced.
If the Hague Tribunal cannot do the same, then the former Yugoslavia and indeed the whole Balkans region will never move on and peace will never be guaranteed.
Meanwhile we will have given a green light to barbarism in any one of a hundred trouble spots currently around the world.
Unfortunately, in some ways it covers things we have already asked for and we could, I believe, have gone further; we could have made other suggestions, addressed in particular to the President of the tribunal in The Hague, in particular telling him of an idea which I and my group are keen on: that of introducing trials in absentia.
We know that this is not the best solution in absolute terms, but we know that the in absentia procedure also makes it possible to reopen a case when the accused or the convicted person is arrested.
Mr President, when the Tribunal was set up it struck me that it was meant as a smokescreen to avoid really effective action being taken to end the war in the former Yugoslavia.
Neither Croatia, nor Bosnia, nor the Serbian sector are really contributing to the satisfactory functioning of this institution.
If we really want to encourage the advance of international law and ensure respect for it, if we fervently wish that the indescribable crimes committed during the war in the former Yugoslavia can never again be committed with impunity, the international community and particularly the European Union will have to use all its weight in economic and political relations with the successor states to the former Yugoslavia.
The price that Europe is willing to pay to have international law respected will in this case find its expression in the pressures it will exert on the parties concerned, those responsible for putting more and more obstacles in the way of the tribunal's work.
I do not intend to go back to the first international tribunal at Nuremberg where barbarous war criminals - I am thinking in particular of the murderers of ten thousand Polish officers in Katin, among others - had to sit in judgment on other barbarous murderers.
That at all events makes the members of parliament from my country ill placed to teach any lessons to the former Yugoslavia, with or without any tribunal.
First of all, I think that public opinion and the institutions are little by little coming round to the fact that impunity can no longer be tolerated.
I also believe that the idea of a permanent justice system is beginning to make progress and I hope the UN General Assembly will accept the date in 1998 for the Plenipotentiary Conference to establish a permanent tribunal.
The Commission has contributed ECU 3 million to the ad hoc Tribunal on former Yugoslavia since 1994, and I believe this Parliament has established a special budget line of another ECU 3 million in the new budget for 1997.
So probably a permanent tribunal could also have a deterrent effect which the ad hoc tribunals certainly do not have.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the breakdown of negotiations between the European Union and Senegal in the fourth round has arisen, in my opinion, as much from the content of the discussions as from their context.
The electoral context for Senegal, with elections on 28 November, and the budgetary context for the Union.
That is why I hope to remain optimistic about a renewal of discussions in two or three months, or even in a few weeks.
However, Madam Commissioner, my wish and that of my group is that, in this future agreement, resources be taken into account along with the interests of non-industrial fishing.
That country is a fishing country par excellence with a flourishing local and craft fishing culture.
More than 110, 000 people are directly involved in fishing.
We must think of joint ventures and improved training for the local fishermen.
In the case of Senegal, the 1994-96 agreement already heavily reduced catch opportunities in comparison with the previous agreement, both because of pressure from the Senegalese non-industrial fleet and because little use was made previously of some catch opportunities.
This being so, I do not understand the concern many colleagues have expressed over this dispute with the non-industrial fleet when the European Union has in fact made use of catch opportunities which do not impact upon the non-industrial fleet.
I understand the effectiveness of the Senegalese lobby, but in this case the Commission, which took account of the concerns of the non-industrial coastal fleet when it negotiated the previous agreement, has systematically negotiated a lower catch time after time, and the agreements also cover monitoring, information on stocks and professional training of Senegalese seamen.
Fishing agreements may complement development policy, but it is not possible to design development policies on the basis of fishing agreements alone.
Firstly, the local fishermen are going further and further afield into the open sea to expand their activity; secondly, because of this, the proportion of pelagic species as opposed to demersal fish forms an increasing part of their catch; and thirdly, a still larger proportion of this local production is removed from the market for local consumption and immediately packaged and despatched to western markets.
Faced with this development, Senegal is getting itself organized, is reacting and asking for a reduction in Union fishing quotas and an increase in the financial compensation we give it: and we are astonished by this.
Therefore, perhaps he should vote for our resolution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate perhaps provides a good opportunity to clarify several points, for I have the impression that, on both sides, even though I recognize that it is sometimes complicated and difficult to establish balanced relationships between partners, we must nevertheless not forget certain truths.
I too understand that there may be lobbies in certain sectors of Senegalese activities.
This agreement in fact provides for 10, 000 GRT of deep-sea fish species at depths of 400 to 600 metres, and therefore out of reach of the Senegalese coastal fisheries.
We have agreed to withdraw to beyond 12 miles except for a very few small boats, about eight to ten, of the European Community which would be the only ones authorized to fish within 12 miles, quite simply because they do not have the necessary self-sufficiency to fish any further out and unload their catch.
Most of the species covered by this agreement, which - I repeat - consist of black hake and deep-water prawns, are caught at a depth of 600 metres, and the Senegalese, for the moment, have neither the means nor the technique to fish for them.
Secondly - and I am speaking here particularly to you, Mrs d'Ancona - you say: ' Fortunately, Senegal has at last decided to say 'Enough...' and then you ask me to intervene in connection with Senegal so that the funds shall go instead to development or to coastal fisheries.
If the Senegalese government has budgetary priorities which dictate that it allocates fresh money coming to it from Europe to other sectors, I should find it a little peculiar that we were the ones to impose other economic priorities on it.
The matter can be discussed in the form of a dialogue but, frankly, we must also respect the economic choices which are made by the government and which are not for us to decide.
The new agreement provides for a 23 % reduction in non-capture compared with the previous agreement.
Moreover, the financial compensation is increased by 22 %.
My history, my tradition, my commitment all mean that, in my estimation, in fishing as in other sectors, it is possible to arrive at agreements which are equitable and beneficial for both parties.
But thought could perhaps be given, as the NGOs are doing, as the Dutch government and our minister for development cooperation is doing, to earmarking the way in which money is to be spent, and writing that into the agreements.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
A year ago the environmentalist Ken Saro Wiwa was murdered by the Abacha regime and one year on Abacha is still there, his regime is still there, several murders have since been committed and there are still more people waiting to be murdered by this regime.
The Union must bring pressure to bear on the military regime and the Council on 25 November must take a decision to prolong the sanctions decreed at that time, otherwise they will lapse on 4 December and everything will be back to the beginning, the abhorrent beginning of this regime.
Pressure must continue to be exerted in order to put an end to the violent suppression of the people of Nigeria, and we must do everything possible to enable the democratic forces in this major African country to work towards rebuilding the country.
Mr President, the sanctions which are to be renewed by the General Affairs Council on 4 December are, I understand, merely to be adopted under the written procedure.
Surely this act, which aroused such condemnation - I refer to the killing of Ken Saro Wiwa and eight other Ogoni people - merits a proper debate in the Council of Ministers.
Ideally such a statement should be ready for the General Affairs Council meeting on 4 December.
Mr President, first of all I should like to say to Commissioner Bonino how much we appreciate the way in which she has spoken out very recently on the tragedy unfolding in Zaire.
I think the Council has a great opportunity, as Mr Moorhouse said, to address this challenge at its next meeting and ensure that Europe can stand for something democratic and freedom-loving in the world.
That kind of action must of course be taken together with a large number of countries, such as the countries of Africa, but in my view it is the only instrument which will help Nigeria back on to the road of democracy.
In our view only by a total embargo on arms exports and a freeze on the financial assets of President Sani Abacha and the Nigerian Federal Executive Council will the international community succeed in exercising the necessary pressure to promote the renewal of democracy.
The contrast with the democratic development in Taiwan is all the more striking.
While I can work freely for my political aims here as a European Member, Wang Dan is again being sentenced for activities that come under the unalienable right to freedom of expression in a democratic society.
They are supporting this regime and I believe that only economic sanctions can still force this regime to accept a minimum of human rights!
Mr President, I returned recently, with some colleagues from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, from a trip to China, including Tibet.
Last year the European Union established a human rights dialogue with China.
We rely on the Commissioner to make strong representations to the Chinese Government on the specific concerns raised in this resolution and, indeed, in former recommendations of Parliament, in particular in relation to the Pan Am project and Parliament's view on the funding of that project.
Mr President, the Chinese authorities are once again forcing us to express an opinion about a serious violation of human rights.
We have Sir Leon who travels a lot, who makes after-dinner or predinner speeches - we do not really know - about one or two matters relating to human rights, but there is no European policy towards China.
Neither, therefore, is there a Western policy, nor is there dialogue with the Americans or Japanese in order to lay down a few minimum, but definite, criteria on respect for human rights and on reform in the direction of a democratization of the People's Republic of China.
I want simply to report that on 31 October, at a meeting with the Chinese Ambassador in Brussels, I raised this question of Mr Wang Dan.
I concluded by saying that the Helsinki Final Act was signed in 1975 with the Soviet Union.
Within 15 years that system had evolved into a democracy.
Georgia Mr President, this urgent debate on the sentencing of opposition politicians in the Republic of Georgia is intended not just to draw attention to the sentences announced for 19 November but also to point to the conditions in the Georgian prisons as a matter of principle.
A just solution to the Abkhazia problem presupposes, among other things, respect for the territorial integrity of Georgia and at the same time safeguards for the rights of the various ethnic groups that made up the nation of Georgia before the civil conflicts.
Under those conditions, the elections which the Abkhazian side decided to hold on 23 November will not only fail to solve any problems, but on the contrary, will exacerbate existing differences still further.
Against a background in which large areas of Georgia have suffered civil war and ethnic cleansing for years, in particular Abkhazia, it is doubly important that we find a political solution for the future of Abkhazia, in agreement with all sides involved.
We call on the Abkhaz side finally to respect human rights and to let refugees and displaced persons live in peace with one another in this region.
In this connection I also call on the Commission and the Council to use every means at their disposal to support the peace process by confidence-building measures, in cooperation with all parties involved.
I think that the Abkhaz people, who form only 30 % of the population in this region, should understand that they cannot claim to live at the expense of the 70 % of Georgians whose freedom of movement, as we have been reminded, has been restricted and who are still refugees.
El Salvador Mr President, Madam Commissioner, we tabled this resolution because 13 people have been murdered in El Salvador in the last two weeks.
In July we had the opportunity of an interview with human rights attorney Marina Victoria de Avilés, and her assistant Araceli Zamora; she expressed concern over the lack of financial and human resources to do proper work in a country with 70 % severe poverty and 50 % unemployment, and also fear that, following the agreements, the new democracy might fail, since some peasants have told us that the hand-over of land is not taking place.
It is a testimony we should all remember when making agreements with Latin American countries which do not respect human rights.
Mr President, during the civil war in El Salvador from 1980 to 1992 40, 000 of the 70, 000 killed were murdered by right-wing death squads.
When the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front and the Arena Government signed a peace agreement in 1992 providing for a reduction of the army, disbanding the old security forces and disarming the FMLN we all hoped that assassinations and gross violations of human rights would become a thing of the past.
The kidnapping of the 14-year-old son of a friend of former President Alfredo Cristiani recently released, illustrates this.
The European Parliament and the European Union as a whole must send out a clear message condemning the murders and all who participate in committing such crimes.
We do not believe in the restoration of the death penalty but we do believe that there should be systematic investigation of all crimes and a maximum effort made to identify and punish those responsible.
The democratic and human rights organisations deserve our support and the report that I myself am writing on the future strategy for Latin America will also draw attention to this country where peace has broken out, in the hope that peace is also lasting.
Mr President, El Salvador is engaged in a pre-pre-election campaign.
By the time of the elections next March hundreds if not thousands of Salvadorans will once again have lost their life.
The perpetrators of the violence in El Salvador can be named, as can their supporters.
Armenia Mr President, President Petrosian has been re-elected, but in circumstances which at the very least are questionable.
I believe Armenia should be helped to find its way towards true democracy, for which there is no substitute.
As regards Nigeria, the Commission shares the profound concern expressed by Parliament.
It is no surprise to anyone that acceptable, or internationally acceptable, human rights standards have not been applied in that country, especially for the last two years.
Furthermore, daily life is also becoming increasingly fraught from the economic point of view.
As you know, in November 1995, the Commission suspended cooperation with Nigeria and is preparing a series of measures to support the democratization process in order to improve the human rights situation.
I am fully aware that resolutions presented by the European Parliament call for an embargo.
This policy, more or less satisfactory, has also been chosen by all the Member States of the Union in their bilateral relations.
The European Union and Commission attach special importance to deepening the bilateral dialogue, in particular on human rights, which was initiated about two years ago.
We have prepared a programme of cooperation projects aimed at promoting this human dimension in China to encourage the development of a civil society based on the rule of law.
The General Affairs Council of July 1995 stressed the importance of a peaceful solution to the conflicts in the region and the return of the evacuees and refugees to Abkhazia in a context of full respect for human rights.
The European Union has frequently demonstrated its concern about the application of the death penalty in Georgia and the other independent states.
The problem has also been raised with President Shevardnadze, in particular as regards the case of the Members of Parliament who support ex-President Gamsakurdia, to whom the resolution of the Group of the European People's Party refers.
The Union's delegation to Tbilisi will continue to follow the situation closely as well as the trial scheduled for 19 November.
I more than share your concern and while we are closely following the deterioration of the human rights situation in El Salvador, supporting the initiatives organized in the country to defend respect for human rights, what the Commission is actually able to do is have more of a presence in support of this project because outbreaks of violence are occurring, as always in electoral periods.
Such testimony should impel us to become not only more involved but perhaps more generous, too, in our financial support of social projects in that country.
As regards Armenia, on the assessment of the September presidential elections it certainly seems difficult at the moment for the European Union to call for new elections.
I must tell the honourable Member who raised the question that while we expect good cooperation between ECHO and TACIS in the move from urgent humanitarian aid to the longer term development programme, the financing of rehabilitation projects is excluded from the legal basis of ECHO, because actually the legal basis for urgent humanitarian projects permits other agencies, TACIS in particular, to take over when the situation is no longer urgent.
Moreover, as you have realized in the last few days, the presence of ECHO is required in many parts of the world.
I hope that Commissioner Oreja, who is not here today, and Commissioner Bonino, who is here among us, who are both people of culture, will understand what is at stake here and, on behalf of the European Union, will set in motion the necessary mechanisms so that the people of Lisbon and its City Hall, and our friend and former colleague, Lisbon's Mayor João Soares, when rebuilding that City Hall, can note that once again Europe was with Portugal.
Madam President, I just wanted to express, on behalf of the European People's Party, our unconditional support for the resolution intended to demonstrate our solidarity in the face of the fire which has destroyed an important building from a heritage and historical point of view, in other words the Lisbon City Hall (the Paços do Conselho), and launching an appeal for the Commission to give its support for the rebuilding of the City Hall as far as it can.
In order not to take up much more time I should also like to echo what has already been said by my many colleagues and express, on behalf of my group, our support for this resolution, with the conviction that the European Union and the Commission will also, once again, show solidarity in this practical case, with Lisbon City Hall and the whole of Portugal.
I am thinking for example of the Fenice Theatre in Venice, of the offices in Florence, which were devastated by a criminal attack, of the Liceo Theatre in Barcelona or the Britanny Parliament in Rennes.
It expresses its solidarity with the citizens of Lisbon and will support all the efforts they may make to restore such an important monument in the historical and cultural context of Lisbon.
I note your observation, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
Mrs Bonino wishes to make a statement on this subject.
Moreover, the adoption of the resolution on this point would not constitute a helpful gesture in the present discussion taking place in an already difficult conciliation procedure for the adoption of the novel foods regulation and would constitute a peculiar procedural step.
Madam President, I must say sometimes even I am lost for words.
I hope that none of the 20 members of the College of Commissioners see themselves as having a future in diplomacy because, frankly, that statement that we have just heard is more likely to prejudice than to broker an agreement.
We believe that the Bourlanges/De Giovanni report is unacceptable.
The European Parliament is not a proper parliament.
The report proposes that the co-decision procedure should be extended to all legal acts and that the cooperation procedure should be abolished.
This would result in a significant shift of power from the national parliaments to certain EU institutions: Parliament, the Court of Justice and the Commission.
Parliament should also regard the adoption of this important report as demonstrating its appreciation of the courage and energy with which the Commission has dealt with this central question of European democracy.
The co-decision procedure was introduced into the Maastricht Treaty to increase the democratic nature of decision making in Europe.
We agree with the Commission that the approach in which a decision is taken on a case to case basis on the policies which are subject to the co-decision procedure has been obscure and unsatisfactory.
That is why we voted against the Bourlanges/De Giovanni report which goes even farther than the Commission on very many points.
d'Ancona report Madam President, in supporting the d'Ancona report, I want to draw attention to the continuing scandal where properly recognized refugees under international law are forcibly kept apart from each other in the different Member States.
I am told that there are particular problems in relation to France and Austria.
The report claims that most refugees come from countries outside Europe and should be dealt with in their own regions.
We believe that there is far too little support for this claim and that it is not clear what is meant by their own regions; we consider this to be very unfortunate.
We cannot accept this.
What is lacking for me, however, is any explanation of what the consequences for people seeking asylum in EU countries will be of joining Schengen or of the Schengen rules being adopted by the EU.
Despite this shortcoming I have voted for the report.
Since nationals of third states who have settled in the EU enjoy the same freedom of movement as EU citizens and can therefore move freely from one country to another, the asylum provisions of the 15 EU states must longer conflict.
Biosafety Madam President, although I consider food safety and food quality very important I was unable to vote in favour of the resolution because I believe that there are so many trade policy issues and practical trade problems involved here that I think that it should first have been debated in depth in the Committee on External Economic Relations before coming to the floor of the House.
Faced with problems common to each of the third Mediterranean countries, such as high population pressure, too little diversification of production and industrial trade, and a long-term shortage of drinking water, the initiative aiming at strengthening a Euro-Mediterranean partnership in the field of renewable energy sources appears fundamental.
The meeting which will be held in Marseilles on 25 and 26 November 1996 on the local management of water will have to take into account the conclusions of the European Parliament's report and provide the tools necessary for an exchange of know-how and for decentralized action to be taken in the field of water management.
As the rapporteur emphasizes, a budgetary line should be identified in the MEDA regulation devoted to funding infrastructures in the energy sector and forms of decentralized cooperation should be developed in this field.
The absence of a Euro-Mediterranean organization in the energy field should be offset by setting up mechanisms such as the Euro-Mediterranean Energy Forum and this should be done in such a way as to create genuine cooperation between all the institutions concerned.
The aim may be most praiseworthy but I see many other social costs which have greater priority in the battle against unemployment and poverty in Europe.
The final plan for the liberalization of gas markets in Europe will be put in place before the end of the Irish presidency of the EU this year.
Thus whilst other Mediterranean fishermen are asked to make a serious effort to comply with the Regulation on technical measures by not catching any hake less than 20 cm in size or red mullet less than 11 cm, Adriatic fishermen would be able, via this preferential treatment offered to them by the Commission, to catch, land and sell hake of 14 cm.
Allowing the capture of 14 cm hake is a complete absurdity and a biological crime.
The Commission's proposal is also in head-on collision with its own principles, with its own measures contained in the new proposal for a Regulation on technical measures and with its MAGP 4 proposal.
According to the Commission, European fishing grounds, with the Mediterranean figuring prominently, are so over-exploited that measures to reduce fishing by up to 40 % are needed to safeguard the resource.
In the technical measures proposed, and for the same reasons, the Commission generally increases the mesh size of nets, raising it to 110 mm for hake.
We know that there are ways of changing the pattern of fishing in the Adriatic gradually, and that it is possible to catch larger hake and make these fisheries viable.
Our French colleagues in the Gulf of Lyons are well aware of this, for they changed their methods of fishing on their own initiative, accepting the sacrifice to safeguard their hake fisheries, well before any Regulation on technical measures existed for the Mediterranean.
Madam Commissioner, for all these reasons which are causing grave concern in the sector and in Member States I ask you to withdraw your proposal.
On all these grounds, Madam Commissioner, I urge the Commission to think again and withdraw its proposal on transitional measures concerning the Regulation on technical measures in the Mediterranean.
In the first place, there is in our view no doubt that the Mediterranean constitutes a regional unit in terms of fisheries as well, and requires specific treatment, particularly as regards conservation and management of fishery resources.
Thus in our opinion there is a well-founded specifically Mediterranean aspect to fisheries and biological conditions, which clearly justifies certain technical conservation measures in this area: the Mediterranean.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a cornerstone upon which the whole construction of the Common Fisheries Policy rests it is undoubtedly the conservation of fishery resources.
Hence safeguarding the conservation of resources is a matter of constant concern to the Commission and to this Parliament's Committee on Fisheries.
I should like to point out the serious contradiction produced by the Commission proposal we are debating, since, in contrast to the general measures envisaged in Regulation 1626/94, the Commission is now seeking to introduce special size derogations for certain species in certain areas of the Mediterranean, which are unjustified and are brilliantly exposed in our colleague Carmen Fraga's excellent report.
So I am in full agreement with the contents of Mrs Fraga's report and her proposal to reject amendment of Regulation 1626 of 1994.
Finally, I also want to say that, from the practical point of view, this kind of approach is not only unacceptable for environmental reasons, but it is suicide for the fishermen who probably suggested it.
There are two reasons for this rejection: in the first place, the derogation would put young fish in the Mediterranean at great risk.
We should recall that the Commission itself incomprehensibly allows up to 30 % of hake and red mullet below the minimum legal size to be caught in the Adriatic, whereas the States' representatives have repeatedly requested that the measures in the proposal should be implemented and hence obeyed by all Community fleets which fish in the Mediterranean.
The second reason adduced by the Commission, that third countries fish in the Adriatic without being obliged to comply with the minimum size, collapses unaided, since the Commission itself certifies that 70 %-80 % of the catch in this area is by Italian ships, as quoted in the discussion document it produced.
So, Mr President, permission for a certain Community fleet to fish with 60 mm nets simply promotes the capture of a species, hake fry, which is basic to the survival and future of marine fauna in the Adriatic, and creates a serious threat to other Mediterranean species.
As a result of investigation, the report itself describes certain illegal situations, and here, Mr President, this Parliament, the Commission, and still more vigorously the Council, should make a real effort of prevention.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, we consider it absolutely essential to await the results of the Commission's study, so that we can obtain an objective analysis away from the pressure of Governments, and then issue and implement the appropriate regulation on the basis of the legal situation in the Mediterranean.
Alas, that is becoming less and less possible and would soon be impossible if we allow the Commissions's proposals on fishing in the Adriatic to be applied.
These marine resources are becoming exhausted in oceans all over the world: as an example, we even learn that, for reasons that are still mysterious, Canadian cod are not only becoming scarce but the survivors, if I may call them that, are dying out for complex reasons.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the Commission is happy that certain watchwords and basic problems or ideas, are beginning to be accepted by this Parliament too, and by some of its excellent exponents, especially if they apply to other countries.
I hope you will still speak the same language when it is a matter of the POP IV relating to France.
I believe each of you knows very well that there are special circumstances and each of you has made a stand in this Parliament on specific issues relating to factors affecting this or that fleet.
I hope that the pilot project dealing with relations between Adriatic fishermen and Croatian fishermen will be successful in finding solutions, hopefully within the next three years.
I will also tell you quite frankly that I have proposed this derogation, which is certainly in contradiction to the basic regulation - otherwise what sort of a derogation is it? - entirely because of the social impact problems and in order to put the Italian fleet or the Adriatic fishermen in a position to benefit from this regulation and actually do so in a sustainable situation.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
I can understand exceptions when they are justified and have a basis, but in this case, Madam Commissioner, I sincerely believe - and I have considered the matter very carefully, for if sometimes there are problems which can be solved, then we should help - that your proposal will not help solve the problem of Italian fishermen in the Adriatic and it will complicate the lives of other fishermen and the other Member States.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Fisheries agreements with Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania The next item is the report (A4-0363/96) by Mr Kindermann, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on: I.
the proposal for a Council Regulation on the conclusion of an agreement on fisheries relations between the European Community and the Republic of Latvia (COM(96)0343 - C4-0478/96-96/0178(CNS)); II.the proposal for a Council Regulation on the conclusion of an agreement on fisheries relations between the European Community and the Republic of Estonia (COM(96)0355 - C4-0479/96-96/0187(CNS)); III.the proposal for a Council Regulation on the conclusion of an agreement on fisheries relations between the European Community and the Republic of Lithuania (COM(96)0356 - C4-0480/96-96/0201(CNS)).
Mr President, Commissioner, this report by the Committee on Fisheries concerns the three proposals for regulations on the conclusion of fisheries agreements with the Baltic Republics of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania.
In order to makes fisheries relations clearer and simpler, in 1995 the Commission received a mandate to negotiate new framework agreements with the Baltic republics to replace all existing fisheries agreements.
In my view the most important element of the new, second-generation agreement is that it makes it possible to establish joint ventures and joint enterprises, an element that is fully developed in the case of Lithuania.
Here the cooperation with the three Baltic states certainly leaves room for improvement and the Commission is requested to work towards formulating a uniform approach to these important fishery questions.
In my view these fisheries agreements can make a limited contribution to political and economic cooperation between the Baltic states and the EU.
They are, however, no substitute for an EU accession strategy in the fisheries sector, which ought also to provide for aid for restructuring the Baltic fleets.
I think it is a very important element, especially in the light of a pre-membership strategy: because in this light, in fact, bearing the pre-membership strategy in mind, the 'second generation' component is very important because it facilitates mixed structures which can also make that sector in the three countries more economic.
But precisely because the Commission is convinced of its importance, it will not skimp its efforts to try to convince the other two countries to accept this component in the various agreements as well.
With a view to ratification, the Community and the three Baltic Republics have already decided to hold a whole series of meetings in 1996 followed by annual consultations based on new agreements, so that the system establishing the 1997 fishing opportunities conforms to the agreements signed on behalf of the enlarged Community.
So there is a very close and intense process of dialogue with these three countries.
It is of fundamental importance to the Commission and also, I believe, to the three countries, that the new agreements should come into force on 1 January 1997.
As regards the role of Parliament in the financial execution of the fisheries agreements, I would only like to remind you that the three institutions are currently - with a little difficulty, as the rapporteur certainly knows - seeking to activate a code of good conduct relating to the budgetary procedure for the fisheries agreements, with the intention of being able to improve the organization of relations between the Commission and Parliament.
As Members of Parliament perhaps know, this is a rather difficult period for me, and it is a very intense period on other dossiers, particularly on the humanitarian side.
As chairman of the Delegation for Relations with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, I can confirm that these three countries are interested in having agreements established.
The Commissioner has already responded to the main principle involved, Parliament's discussion of the financial considerations.
We must give them the security that we are backing them, that we stand by them, that the European Union feels responsible for their future, which means we must ensure external security as quickly as possible but also open the gates to economic cooperation with the Baltic states.
Mr President, I am just back from Copenhagen, where I had the opportunity to talk to some Latvians.
Thank you, Mr Macartney.
The debate is closed.
