Andreas Papandreou heightened our awareness of the significance of Greece and of the Mediterranean region, with its great strategic importance to Europe.
Andreas Papandreou played a vital part in restoring freedom and democracy in Greece after the dark years of military rule.
Mr President, I am asking for the floor pursuant to Rule 108 in order to make a personal statement.
I had called into question - in terms which I freely admit were colourful - the behaviour of the Commission during the last two weeks of this affair, both as regards its docility in dealing with the Council and as regards its duplicity in dealing with Parliament.
I do not want to blow this incident up out of proportion, but since President Santer is with us today I suggest, Mr President, that you ask him whether he finds it normal that every time a member of the Commission is caught in flagrante delicto contradicting himself, he prefers to make a personal attack on the honourable Member who points out his error rather than offering a reasoned answer.
It gives me great pleasure to welcome Mr Spring, Tánaiste and President-in-Office, to make a statement on the Irish presidency.
We, in the European Parliament, are looking forward to active cooperation with you and your colleagues throughout the next six months.
Last week two of our Member States, France and Britain, welcomed Nelson Mandela on a state visit.
The huge public outpouring of affection and respect for the South African President was, of course, to salute his role as an architect of a new democratic and free country, but it was also recognition of the reconciliation that he has brought to his country.
He does not - he cannot - forget the past but he is building for the future.
This is a matter of the utmost concern to me not only as Foreign Minister of Ireland but also as Presidentin-Office of the Council in which capacity I address you today.
Nothing can excuse the widespread violence and intimidation of the last ten days.
The Irish and British Governments have agreed to hold a special meeting of the Anglo-Irish Intergovernmental Conference tomorrow at which recent events and the parades issue, including the review announced by the British Government, will be discussed.
The multi-party negotiations launched by the two governments on 10 June offer an unprecedented opportunity to achieve such an agreement.
The Council urges the parties to the negotiations to negotiate in good faith on the basis of exclusively peaceful means and the rejection of violence.
May I conclude these brief remarks by expressing the hope that the inspiration which sustained the founding fathers of the European Union, their determination to build peace in diversity and to banish for ever the violent divisions of the past may also serve to inspire the peoples of Northern Ireland and the British and Irish Governments in the challenges which now confront us.
The Irish presidency of the Council of Ministers of the European Union began on 1 July.
However, no presidency has really begun until its programme of priorities has been launched before the European Parliament.
The Irish presidency takes place at a time when the European Union faces exceptional challenges.
The European Parliament will have a significant role to play in the task of ensuring that the Union can meet the challenges it faces over the next decade and more.
In our programme of priorities for the next six months we emphasise the concerns of citizens.
Europe is at peace.
The European Union, therefore, passes the first and basic test.
The Irish presidency will place great emphasis on employment.
Job creation is the overriding challenge for all of our Governments.
The Commission's White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment sets the guidelines.
Successive European Council meetings at Essen, Cannes, Madrid and Florence have provided the framework.
We will prepare the second joint report on employment for the Dublin European Council in December.
Justice and home affairs issues remain largely within the national competence of Member States.
Nevertheless we need to ensure that the Union adds to the efforts taken at national level to counter crime and especially the trade in drugs.
We must ensure that the instruments available to us nationally, internationally and at the level of the European Union are used and coordinated to the full.
In particular, I hope it will expedite its consideration of the Community Programme on Drug Dependence so that it can come into effect quickly.
On other justice and home affairs issues the Irish presidency will seek to improve collaboration between the Member States in such areas as policing, customs, immigration, asylum policy and judicial cooperation.
In response, in particular, to the concerns expressed by the European Parliament, the presidency will build on the conclusions and recommendations of the Conference on Trafficking in Women held in Vienna in June 1996.
The Union's role in the environment policy is effective and worthwhile.
My own country has benefited substantially from the development of the Union's activities in this area.
We aim to complete the technical preparatory work on the legal framework of the Euro before the end of 1996.
And the Dublin European Council will reconfirm 1 January, 1999 as the beginning of the Third Stage of EMU.
The White Paper programme has been practically finalised.
To this end the Irish presidency will seek to expedite the adoption of the statute for a European Company and the legal framework for biotechnological inventions.
The restoration of confidence in the beef sector will be a major focus of attention during our presidency.
My country exports 85 % of its beef production.
The successful management of this issue will require cooperation and solidarity from all Member States.
Since the last Irish presidency in 1990, the context in which the European Union operates has changed dramatically.
The external challenges and responsibilities which the Union has had to address have also become more complex and demanding.
The Union has sought to respond primarily by engaging in building relationships of partnership and mutual respect with its neighbours in Europe and other regions.
The establishment of a Common Foreign and Security Policy by the Treaty on European Union represented a significant step forward in equipping the Union with the capacity to pursue these objectives more effectively.
While the tasks which Ireland now inherits as presidency in the external relations area have become more daunting, we draw inspiration from the work carried out by preceding presidencies and by the role played by the European Parliament.
It is our aim as presidency to foster the development of a Europe that is open to the world and actively contributing to international peace, security and solidarity.
One of our major priorities is to pursue the Union's active support for the full implementation of the peace initiatives in former Yugoslavia and to contribute to efforts to prevent a return to the tragic circumstances which have shattered that region in recent years.
We will seek to develop political dialogue with partners in the security area.
We will give high priority to continuing the EU's efforts in support of the Middle East Peace Process, in close cooperation with the co-sponsors of the process.
The EU's role in this area should be commensurate with the scale of the economic resources which the Union is committing in support of the peace process.
The multilateral trading system is of vital importance to all of us.
We will work closely with the US to strengthen the system - especially in the context of the First WTO Ministerial Conference.
We need to consolidate and develop the multilateral trade system.
We will also attach importance to strengthening the Union's economic and political relations with Asia, to developing closer relations with the countries of Latin America and Australasia and to continuing efforts to narrow the gap between rich and poor on the basis of sustainable development.
The Madrid European Council, building on Copenhagen and Essen, took a series of decisions of the first importance.
As presidency, we will give every support and encouragement to the Commission in its work in these areas.
We look forward to the Commission's report on work-in-progress at the Dublin European Council in December.
We will ensure that the applicant countries continue to play an important role in discussions on matters of mutual interest and common concern.
The Florence European Council set a challenging mandate for the Intergovernmental Conference during the Irish presidency.
In line with Florence, our aim will be to bring forward to the Dublin European Council in December a general outline for a draft revision of the Treaties.
The general aims of the IGC are: to bring the Union closer to the citizen; -to strengthen and enlarge the scope of the Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy, and-to assure the effective functioning of the institutions while respecting their balance, and the efficiency of the decision-making process.The Irish presidency will work ambitiously to achieve these aims building on the good work of the Italian presidency.
The need for transparency in the IGC and in other areas of the Union's activities remains a major focus of attention.
The Irish presidency will do everything in its power to ensure the maximum openness and transparency.
For the next six months Ireland has the challenge and the privilege of being a presidency of the Council of Ministers for the fifteen Member States.
The European Parliament is a Parliament for people throughout the European Union, for the people of all the Member States.
We must work together to achieve the common end of defending the interests of our citizens.
As part of the preparation for enlargement, we are engaged in the IGC process.
If we lose sight of this spirit of common endeavour now, how can we hope to create a community or Union of twenty seven or more Member States?
Without these attributes the European Union - with however many Member States - will have little future.
In setting the priorities, we have consulted widely with the institutions of the European Union.
We have striven to ensure that the views of the Commission and of European Parliament are taken into account.
As presidency of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, I also ask you in the European Parliament to help us to ensure that the agenda of the Union is advanced during the next six months.
We seek your continued support and assistance to achieve our mutual goal: a Europe that works for all.
D'fhás agus d'fhorbair an tAontas Eorpach ón mbun-smaoineamh 'Comhphobal' . Ó na caogaidí anuas, rugadh agus tógadh fís na hEorpa le spriorad na meithle, sé sin le rá, tíortha móra agus beaga ag comhoibriú le chéile mar dlúth-chomharsana.
I have set Ireland's priorities for our next six months as presidency; we will make our contribution to the building of a better Union for the future.
We also thank you for this example of cultural and linguistic diversity in Europe that you have given us.
I want to acknowledge, Mr Spring, your own personal efforts in trying to establish reconciliation in Northern Ireland, often in very difficult circumstances.
I am confident that this Irish presidency will deliver on its priorities as it has consistently done in the past and give the lie to the myth that the small states cannot effectively handle the assignment.
We share the goals that the Tánaiste has outlined, his vision and commitment, and we will work with you, Mr Spring, so we can progress towards an EU which is based on equity, tolerance, justice and peace and which is open and accessible to all citizens. .
His commitment to keeping his message simple, human and, above all, relevant, is also greatly to be welcomed, because if we do not do this, and include the citizens in our programmes, the vital survival of this Community will be at risk.
The President-in-Office has an onerous burden: to make progress in these areas under the shadow of what is, perhaps, the last remaining and most intractable political conflict in Europe is, indeed, a very heavy burden to bear.
However, our tolerant and open society is under threat from organized crime and from the drug trade.
We must engage in a wholehearted and unrelenting attack on these threats to our society.
I hope that he can ensure that any new Treaty will provide the legal framework needed successfully to fight organized crime and the drug trade.
I also hope he will encourage all the Member States to honour and sign the various international conventions which remain unsigned by some Member States - conventions, for example, on money-laundering, on the internationalization of organized crime and, of course, on cooperation between the police forces within the Community.
Mr President, i dtosach báire ba mhaith liomsa céad míle fáilte a chuir roimh Tánaiste na hEireann is Uachtaráin Chomhairle na hAirí do Comhphobal na hEorpa ar an gcéad turais seo atá déanta aige do Parlaimint na hEorpa.
Both communities in Northern Ireland are vulnerable in different parts in Northern Ireland.
The human, political and economic cost of such an attitude is far too great and risks repeating the shameful intimidation of people from their homes which has scarred Northern Ireland so often in the past.
There is a great responsibility on the British Government and the Irish Government and all the northern parties to give the peace process fresh impetus after the grave setback of the last ten days.
I am sure that the work of the Irish presidency over the next six months will yield positive results for the many difficult problems which are confronting decision-makers in the European Union at the present time.
The most serious political, social and economic problem confronting the Union at the present time continues to be the urgent need to find job opportunities for the 18 million people without work in Europe today.
Commission President Jacques Santer recently tabled proposals for a Confidence Pact on Employment containing a series of measures which have the potential to promote economic growth and new job opportunities provided that our respective governments agree to work with each other and with the Commission on the implementation of President Santer's plans.
The Irish presidency has decided that tackling unemployment will be the main priority of its term in office.
If the presidency is to succeed in making progress on this important issue, then it must persuade the Union's Member States not just to give political support to the Confidence Pact on Employment, but also to provide the funding to implement the proposals and construct the TENs projects put forward by President Santer.
Such a solution would effectively result only in funds being transferred from the agricultural and peripheral regions to the denselypopulated and already highly-developed regions of the centre of the Union.
The presidency's second priority is to tackle the drugs problem.
The 1996 budget does not contain any money to assist in policing the Union's external frontiers.
If the presidency is to succeed in making progress in tackling the drug problem then it should, as a matter of urgency, bring forward proposals for making money available from the Union's 1997 budget for this purpose.
Mr President, may I right at the start of this debate, as a Dutchman and a European, express my solidarity with the Irish Government in its efforts to move the peace process in Northern Ireland forward.
This is a subject on which my friend and colleague Pat Cox will be speaking in detail shortly.
There are 18 million people without work in the Union.
But this decision has remained blocked in the Council for years.
My Group believes that things like border checks, immigration and drug trafficking should be placed under the authority of the Union.
The lack of courage shown by the European Union in Yugoslavia continues to undermine the Union's credibility in the eyes of the world.
But last Monday the foreign ministers once again ended their meeting without agreement on how this objective can be secured.
I trust the fact that Ireland is the only EU Member State which is not part of IFOR will not prevent Ireland from giving a lead on this.
Mr President, I should like to tell the President-in-Office of the Council that our group feels very much in agreement with the presentation that he made of the Irish Government's six-month programme and in respect of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Like the other groups, we are also very much aware of the awfulness of violence in Northern Ireland.
As you said it is necessary to begin the real negotiations so that a Treaty programme can be presented at the December Summit in Dublin.
The Irish presidency cannot be seen as a transition to the Dutch presidency and therefore we very much appreciate his courage, the clarity of his ideas and the fact that he has set objectives already for the December Council.
We should also add dialogue and cooperation with the European Parliament and bring European construction closer to the citizens and social protagonists.
A dialogue, in particular, on the social model and problem of unemployment.
We also give our support to the presentation and approval of a constitutional framework which includes a declaration of fundamental rights and duties and the inclusion of a chapter on employment in the Treaties.
I return to an internal problem because this is still a global problem which concerns us all: the problem of mad cows.
The business of the day is actually discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, of economic and monetary union, of employment and environmental policy, of Europol and of internal security in Europe.
It would mean ignoring the systematic violations of human and civil rights in Northern Ireland.
John Bruton has criticized the British Government more vehemently than any Irish head of government before him for the failure of its policy on Northern Ireland.
I have demands to make of the Irish presidency in terms of a sustained environmental policy, consistent measures to combat social exclusion, marginalization and unemployment, to promote work and fight poverty, in terms of rethinking the convergence criteria and taking comprehensive action against discrimination.
But they often need a helping hand with funding.
A peaceful Europe.
It was very interesting that Ireland is one of the four Member States that can meet the criteria for entry into EMU.
We are sure the European Union understands the need to strengthen itself, in complete political unity, before opening its doors to nations that have yet to achieve, within their own borders, the necessary conditions for aspiring to become part of the broader consensus of the European Union, itself suffering from considerable problems, including the very serious one of unemployment.
I say this, not out of narrow-minded egotism, but because I am sure that the sum of the weaker parts does not make a strong whole, it makes a weak whole, and also because the stronger Member States of this Union must not be permitted to create for themselves an area of even greater power in the more extensive jigsaw of old Europe.
One of the presidency's objectives is the presentation of a first draft of the new treaty prior to the European Council in December.
Let me remind you that very little of what was envisaged in the White Paper of Jacques Delors has become reality.
I hope that the same will not happen with the Irish presidency.
The funding of the trans-European networks, the research programme and other measures which would help are slipping behind.
I think that you, Mr Spring, and your presidency, can achieve a great deal on those two matters also.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned the Intergovernmental Conference, and the presidency will present an outline for a draft revision of the Treaties to the December summit meeting of Heads of State and Government in Dublin.
What we as Members of the European Parliament have heard about the meeting of government representatives held in Cork at the beginning of July has been very encouraging.
Lastly, we should like to encourage you to avoid basing your proposals for the draft treaty revision on the lowest common denominator among the 15 States of the EU but rather to go a good bit further than the positions on which agreement may ultimately be reached.
We in the European People's Party call for reform of the European Union, which now has a population of 370 million, to enable the Union to prepare, on the threshold of the 21st century, for the accession of new States.
You spoke, Mr President-in-Office, of a Community of 27 States; we shall have to wait and see whether that actually comes to pass in the foreseeable future.
Fifthly, we in the European People's Party believe that the rationale of European unification demands the integration of the Western European Union into the European Union.
We do realize that this will probably not be achieved at the present Intergovernmental Conference, because a number of Member States that do not belong to the WEU are unlikely to accept Article 5, in other words the mutual assistance clause.
Our sixth and final point - and this is perhaps the most important point, having been mentioned several times already - concerns the field of justice and home affairs.
The past 10 days have been a watershed, a defining moment for the peace process.
On the one side there is the prospect of slipping into violence - a renewed violence, but without hope; or alternatively, a renewed commitment to redoubling efforts to engage once and for all, and perhaps for the first time, in a genuine and meaningful political dialogue.
That has been built against staggering odds, if you look back to the starting point of 50 years ago.
It gives a message of hope to those who would lead Northern Ireland forward.
If they do not meet the challenge I regret to say the alternative is too horrible to contemplate.
Madam President, firstly, on Northern Ireland, it is clear that force and the threat of force have overcome the rule of law in Northern Ireland.
During the Irish presidency the government should be seeking support from other Member States for an urgent reform of policing structures in Northern Ireland.
There will be the Apprentice Boys' March on 12 August in Derry.
As regards the Irish presidency, the programme of the Irish presidency states that, on security and disarmament, it will pursue the continuing and effective development of EU/WEU cooperation on the basis of the Treaty on European Union in cooperation with the Belgian WEU presidency.
Minister Spring, you stated last year that WEU's nuclear policy was unpalatable for Ireland.
As a non-aligned country, Ireland should be promoting the right of the four Member States of this Union to maintain their non-aligned status within the Union instead of toeing the EU pro-military line.
You say that one of your priorities is to combat Alzheimer's disease.
I will propose to you two rules which I have proposed n times to President Santer.
Improving the unemployment situation is indeed the most important of the Union's tasks at present in Parliament's view.
I may remind you of the conclusions of Cannes, Essen and Madrid.
According to these conclusions it is possible, by means of decisions at Union level, to have a positive influence on employment in the Member States.
The House of Orange has always fostered religious freedom, not religious conflict.
We want use of the veto to be kept to an absolute minimum and we want Parliament's joint legislative powers to be respected and extended, in respect both of legislation and of the budget.
My question is whether the Irish presidency is totally committed to getting Karadzic and Mladic arrested.
Last week in Northern Ireland the forces of the state capitulated in the face of lawlessness.
We in the EU have failed to do that in Ireland over 25 years.
Many citizens are critical of nuclear power and the non-nuclear states have a right not to be polluted by emissions from nuclear states, such as those in the Irish Sea from Sellafield, now much increased by THORP.
It would be very good and very gratifying if, under the influence of the Irish presidency, the Council also endorsed this position, which has important implications for the preservation and creation of jobs.
The first and surely the most important priority to everyone in Europe relates to employment and in particular to the continued development of a Pact of Confidence on Employment in which special attention is to be focused on the problems of young people, the long-term unemployed and women.
Unimpeded lifelong access to general and vocational education is the best weapon in the fight against marginalization and the division of European society into a society of 'knows' and 'don't knows' .
I am also pleased that a point about cultural cooperation is contained in the programme and that there are plans to conduct a debate during the Irish presidency on European cultural policy, including media policy and the Community's cultural action programmes.
The third priority after employment and the fight against drug abuse is the creation of a Union based on equal treatment and tolerance, which is why precedence must be given to addressing issues such as equality of opportunity, social exclusion, transparency and the fight against racism and xenophobia.
This is an important aspect of our policies for peace and security, whether they seek to promote the process for peace in Northern Ireland, which all of us in Europe so fervently desire, or to establish an outgoing Europe that plays an active part in the quest for peace, security and solidarity.
Madam President, I want to welcome the President-in-Office and to congratulate him on his enthusiastic and competent approach to the whole business of guiding the affairs of this Union over the next six months.
I would like to have talked about the financing of the larger European Union, in particular, and other issues which were raised by the President-in-Office, but in my brief time and as I represent the entire border area of the Irish Republic, I want to refer briefly to the statement on Northern Ireland by the President-in-Office.
They had seen some evidence of a greater effort by the police force in Northern Ireland to be impartial and helpful to all the citizens.
The island of Ireland has been growing more rapidly than any other part of the developed world in the past 18 months during this peace process and the fruit was only beginning to ripen.
Madam President, the Irish presidency has chosen employment as the number one priority for its presidency and that is nothing new.
You cannot read anything about the information society without constantly being reminded that people are the most important resource for the economy of the future.
Under the current Union budget it is likely that far too little of those budget funds will directly benefit the citizens of Europe.
The same discrepancy between word and deed threatens the plan for EMU.
In other words, we know that the presidency is subject to constraints, to limitations.
The President-in-Office is surrounded by large numbers of people who do not all have the same objectives, and we know that the Council can have trouble reaching a ruling on certain difficult subjects.
When we have conciliation talks with the Council, the talks do not always take place with the Council itself but sometimes with COREPER, and often three or four levels down.
What little can be done at European level is established and solemnly proclaimed by the European Council, and then three months later ECOFIN meets and does exactly the opposite, or near enough.
When you decide to do it everyone thinks it's going to be done, but your Finance Ministers meet a little later and do exactly the opposite.
So it is no surprise, in these circumstances, that the citizen has difficulty believing in Europe and in the capability of Europe to solve his problems.
The first one is in relation to the Helms-Burton legislation and our relations with the United States.
As one of my colleagues mentioned earlier, the European Parliament delegation was in the United States last week for the annual meeting with the US Congress.
In Dublin, at the end of your presidency, we would like to see a determined practical commitment by the Council actually to reduce dramatically the numbers of young people on the unemployment market.
I hope that we can single out one section of the labour market and ensure that by the end of the six-month presidency - and I hope it will be a very successful presidency - there is a very clear light at the end of the tunnel, particularly for the young people in Europe who really do still have faith in the whole project of building a strong European Union.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I welcome the priorities of the Irish presidency put forward here today.
The battle to reduce unemployment is and must remain our first priority.
The emphasis given to coordinating and developing all services involved in the elimination of drug trafficking and organized crime is also welcome.
I do not wish to repeat all the comments made on the situation in Northern Ireland, but I believe it is important to realize that events there in recent days are an offence against the European ideal.
All the applicant countries are in need of substantial help to develop industry and infrastructure.
Enlargement with the current restrictions on our budget would be disastrous for the new Member States and would also destroy much of the success in achieving economic and social cohesion between the existing 15 Member States.
We have seen the destructive power of this rule recently when Britain, in a very misguided policy decision, held up most decisions for several months.
The Irish presidency has made good preparation for its period in office.
For that reason I ask the Irish presidency to channel some of the energy to which the President-in-Office bore witness this morning into addressing a problem currently under discussion at the Intergovernmental Conference and about which our group is increasingly concerned, namely that of the democratic deficit within the European Union.
We certainly need to do that, but we must also intensify cooperation between police authorities in the fight against crime and create a European police organization.
The fact that only executive bodies cooperate with each other and try to come up with European solutions means that the national parliaments - as we have all heard from parliamentarian colleagues in our own countries - are told with increasing regularity that they need no longer concern themselves with this particular issue because it is a European matter.
So an uncontrolled democracyfree zone, as it were, is emerging, precisely where decisions are taken which affect the personal rights of the individual citizens of the European Union, as we saw here yesterday in our debate on freedom of movement.
Parliament and the Commission are endeavouring to eliminate the deficit in terms of the remaining restrictions on freedom of movement, but we hear that, behind the backs of Parliament and the Commission, the Council under its present Irish presidency is planning a draft joint action, in other words a joint measure on the basis of Article K.4 of the Treaty, which means that neither the Commission nor Parliament are involved in it.
You can set a good example, Mr President-in-Office, if you can ensure that, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in September, the competent Minister helps to allay the irritation that has arisen in connection with the Monti initiatives and the debate on freedom of movement.
Madam President, could I also give a word of welcome to the President-in-Office, I wish him well for the time that he holds that office.
The return of megaphone diplomacy by the Dublin Government was extremely unhelpful and was quite frankly like pouring petrol on a raging fire last weekend.
The views and the wishes of the majority community have been set aside and dismissed, and they have observed terrorists being rewarded and lauded for their atrocities.
The people of Northern Ireland have experienced, since the original ceasefires, a period of uncertain peace, and they have enjoyed that time.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I welcome the fact that Mediterranean policy is also one of the priorities of the Irish presidency.
In my opinion, the presidency too should let its voice be heard on the threat to the borders of the European - I repeat, the borders of the European Union.
One final point, Mr President: the dynamics of the peace process in the Middle East seem to have seized up for the time being.
By its very existence, however, the Act has already done great damage to the more than 150 firms which feature in what the Americans so graphically call Cuba's 'Hall of Shame' .
The exclusive powers which the EU enjoys in trade create obligations too.
A tough response by the Irish presidency will make an impression during this pre-election period in America.
Madam President, I should like to congratulate the Irish presidency on its programme on trade policy.
But we have to express our surprise that there has been no mention of problems arising from complications of the Helms-Burton Act because this is not a law to protect the security and integrity of the United States but it is an Act which exercises excessive power and is an instrument which is likely to lead to a trade war.
The threat is still there.
As we say in Basque, eskerrik asko , thank you very much, Madam President.
I am very concerned at the attendance and surprised that there has been so little participation in this House by our British colleagues during this whole debate on the Irish presidency.
I can assure Parliament that is our intention in the course of the next six months.
But what strikes me from this debate here this morning is that there is very strong consensus on the fact that employment remains top of the agenda, that the drugs question must be tackled in an effective manner by all European Member States in cooperation with other regions.
We must work and strive to establish social justice and bring Europe closer to its citizens.
We, as politicians - both the European parliamentarians and the Member State governments - have to work harder to ensure that the people of Europe realize what is happening in the Union and what we are trying to achieve both domestically, internally and in our external relations and in terms of the role that we have to play.
I also welcome the tenor of the remarks by colleagues here in terms of the spirit of cooperation and solidarity which was expressed.
I can assure you that is going to be the hallmark of the relationship between the Irish presidency and the European Parliament for the next six months.
In relation to Northern Ireland I feel that I have to respond because so many people expressed their concern.
I have been directly or indirectly involved in Northern Ireland on behalf of the Irish Labour Party or on behalf of the Irish Government for over 14 years.
We have to get back into dialogue between the parties and we have to do that as a matter of urgency.
That is the responsibility for the governments and for the political parties in Northern Ireland.
In relation to the presidency and the European Parliament, I can assure you that Irish Ministers will be in full consultation in the months ahead.
We seek the establishment of political freedom and full respect for human rights in Cuba and we should work together with the United States for these common aims.
I am sure that Members are aware that at the General Affairs Council on Monday, at the first opportunity that was available to us during our presidency, we reaffirmed our concern to promote democratic reform in Cuba but we also recalled our deep concern, already expressed in the European Council at Florence, at the extra-territorial effects of the Helms-Burton legislation.
I have to say that I welcome President Clinton's decision yesterday to suspend for six months the right to bring action under Title 3 of the Helms-Burton legislation.
However, it must also be said that it does not remove the extra-territorial effect of the legislation nor does it remove the restrictions which have been applied to European businessmen.
The Helms-Burton legislation has been condemned by the main trading partners of the United States and I certainly hope that the United States will reflect further on the implications of its action and work with its partners to protect and promote an open international trading system for the benefit of all.
As I have already indicated, the Irish presidency intends to advance cooperation with the United States in the many areas covered by this dialogue.
I will be addressing these issues in the debate on the Fernández-Albor report immediately after this debate.
The IGC is currently addressing the aim identified by the Florence European Council of strengthening and enlarging the scope of the CFSP, including the Union's security and defence dimension.
The OECD report on the Irish experience of local development was recently published and I commend it to Members of the European Parliament who may be interested in this topic.
On the issue of free movement, I have listened very carefully to the remarks made by the honourable Members here today.
This issue could be very appropriately discussed when the President-in-Office of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, Minister Owen, meets the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in September.
Many Members raised the question of Cyprus.
It was in this context that the Italian presidency appointed a special representative.
As holder of the EU presidency, Ireland will seek to continue the Union's support to contribute to the international effort to make progress towards an agreed settlement.
The presidency will continue to work urgently together with others in the international community to achieve this objective.
I personally put great emphasis on the achievements of the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue to date and particularly the success of the Barcelona Conference during the Spanish presidency.
In fact, this afternoon we have a meeting with the Foreign Minister of Turkey to discuss relations between the European Union and Turkey, which I know is of concern to Members.
We will use all of our abilities to make progress with regard to the relationship between Turkey and the European Union.
Madam President, I welcome the contributions made by the Members of the European Parliament.
As I said at the outset, I look forward during the Irish presidency to working very closely with you, the elected Members of the European citizens.
I know that good work between the institutions will be vital if we are going to make the progress that we have said we want to make on the various dossiers and the various agenda items of the European Union.
Madam President, as you will know this the second time that the European Parliament is holding a debate which, pursuant to Article J.7(2) of the Treaty on European Union, it must hold on progress achieved in implementing the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
We have tried to keep to the Treaty provision limiting our exercise to analysis of the developments of the CFSP and the main thrust of the European Union's activity in this area over the year 1995.
The general spirit of the report, and the motion for a resolution presented, is quite critical.
This could not be any other way since in general terms 1995 was not a satisfactory year for development and implementation of CFSP.
Along these lines the signing of the agreement with Mercosur, the Barcelona Euro-Mediterranean Conference, active and practical participation in the reconstruction plan for former Yugoslavia, the trans-Atlantic Pact, the signing of association agreements with Morocco, Tunisia, the Baltic States, etc., are major successes but does this mean that we have made any progress in developing a common external policy, does it mean that all of the potential of Title V of the Treaty has been put into action or does it even mean that we can detect a positive trend?
Therefore we think it is incongruous and discouraging (in points 9 of our motion for a resolution) that such intensive, fruitful conventional external activity should have produced so little development of the CFSP instruments.
The Treaty on European Union was a lukewarm attempt at overcoming the differences in European political cooperation and to assert, as it says in Article B, the European Union's identity in the international arena.
That is why we were given a European political cooperation consisting of three elements: common action, common positions and the definition of a common defence policy.
That is why in point 12 of the report we deplore the apparent confusion between the use of common positions and common measures.
Our subject matter is only that of developing - as provided for in the Treaty on European Union - a credible common defence and security policy, one which is therefore dissuasive and effective.
We have to point out that the Council has systematically ignored the European Parliament's recommendations on external policy and - which seems even more serious to me - has not even bothered to explain its stance politically.
The Union's activity in the foreign policy area has intensified considerably since the establishment of the common foreign and security policy.
The European Parliament's resolution, which is the subject of this debate, aptly describes the common foreign and security policy as an evolutionary process which must progress slowly but steadily in the direction of the objectives clearly laid down in the Treaty on European Union.
The Conference is also reviewing the procedures for the adoption and implementation of foreign policy decisions and the Treaty provisions on security and defence policy.
Parliament's resolution correctly observes the establishment of the CFSP is not an end in itself but rather a means to promote the Union's objectives in relation to international peace and security, the development and consolidation of democracy, respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms.
These objectives are pursued in a range of international fora, in particular the UN and the OSCE, and through the development of the Union's relations with its third country partners.
Comprehensive political cooperation mechanisms have been developed with the European associate countries within the framework of the pre-accession strategy and structured dialogue.
The stability pact initiative of the Union, which was concluded last year, provides a framework for the development of cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which are party to it.
The Union is continuing its support for the efforts of the OSCE to promote a negotiated settlement for this conflict.
The declaration adopted at the Barcelona Conference in November 1995 represents a major step in the development of the Union's relations with its neighbours in the Mediterranean region, including the core parties to the Middle East peace process.
The declaration established a process for deepening cooperation and partnership in the political, security, economic, social and cultural fields.
The progressive development of all aspects of the partnership is a key objective of the Irish presidency.
I am very pleased to be able to report in this context that the General Affairs Council this week adopted the MEDA regulation.
This will give effect to our cooperation in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
In 1995 the Council agreed general guidelines for the cooperation between the Union and Latin America for the period leading up to the 21st century.
The political objectives of such future cooperation relate to institutional support for consolidation of democratic processes and respect for human rights with the involvement of civil society and in a context of open regionalism.
The European Union is giving due priority to developing the dialogue between the Union and Asia and its countries and leaders.
The Bangkok Summit established a new comprehensive Asia-Europe partnership aimed at strengthening links with a view to promoting peace, global stability and prosperity.
The Asia-Europe process provides the Union with an enhanced framework to develop mutual understanding with its Asean partners and to pursue its foreign policy interests and concerns in the region.
The Council has at all times been concerned to ensure the Union's capacity to respond rapidly and flexibly to the evolving situation on the ground, in close consultation with its main international partners.
It has used the instruments available to it under the Treaty on European Union for this purpose.
The challenge now is to develop the structures necessary to secure and consolidate the peace.
The major role played by the Union in the organization and supervision of the January 1996 elections which led to the establishment of Palestinian institutions on a democratic basis was widely appreciated in the region.
The continuing violence in the Great Lakes region and in particular Burundi has been a matter of serious concern to the Council, reflected in the series of steps taken with a view to alleviating the crisis.
The common position on Burundi adopted in March 1995 expressed the EU's support for the process of national reconciliation and for dialogue between the local parties.
This instrument also provided a framework for EU assistance in the form of support for the OAU military observer mission in Burundi and for the sending of human rights observers by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The Council supports the objectives of the security assistance process recently initiated at Arusha and hopes that it will help to create the conditions for an inclusive and substantial political dialogue between the parties.
The Council strongly condemned the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa in November 1995 and subsequently adopted two common positions on Nigeria, both of which were designed to encourage respect for human rights and a return to civil democratic rule there.
The primary objective of the common position on Angola adopted in October 1995 was to assist its government in firmly establishing democratic structures and the rule of law.
Other provisions included pursuing EU participation in efforts to alleviate the suffering of refugees and to encourage respect for human rights.
The Union supplemented its activity in this area with a pledge of almost $ 800m in humanitarian rehabilitation assistance at the UNDP round-table last year.
In the context of its joint action on mine clearance the EU has contributed ECU 1.5m to mine clearance projects in Angola.
These principles are now the basis of the EU's ongoing dialogue with the OAU in this important area.
The joint action on anti-personnel landmines, adopted on 12 May 1995, was a significant step in the European Union's efforts to address the tragedy caused by the indiscriminate use of weapons of this kind in many countries.
While the joint action did help to give some impetus to the work of the review conference, the outcome fell short of our expectations, and some of the goals set out in our joint action in a number of important respects.
Our objective now is to reach agreement on an updated joint action in order to maximise the European Union's contribution to the international movement for a world-wide ban on these weapons.
I welcome the emphasis placed by Parliament's resolution on the protection of human rights in its endorsement of the efforts made by the Council to uphold this principle.
The Council's annual report to Parliament on the Union's activities in the human rights area was presented earlier this month by President Hänsch.
The Irish presidency will pursue the Union's efforts to advance respect for human rights and to ensuring this objective remains at the heart of the Union's policies in general and its common foreign security policy in particular.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for providing the Irish presidency with an opportunity for an early exchange of views on CFSP.
Mr President, the vote on the calendar is precisely the point on which I would like to comment.
My request is a simple one: I would like you to declare inadmissible all the amendments relating to the number of plenary part-sessions at Strasbourg, for two reasons.
Pursuant to Rule 125 (3) of our Rules of Procedure, I should like you to declare inadmissible all amendments on the draft calendar for the 1997 part-sessions which relate to the number of plenary part-sessions to be held in Strasbourg.
Mr President, my point of order, like the one just raised by Mr Wurtz, is also based on Rule 125.
It concerns the vote on the calendar for the plenary part-sessions for 1997.
Now, Rule 125 stipulates that the President shall decide whether amendments are admissible.
Thirdly, the House is free to adopt or reject the amendment.
Now, you are required to apply the Treaties and the Rules of Procedure, and having due regard to the Treaties and the Rules of Procedure - and the Treaties are definitive, since they represent a decision by the Heads of State and Government - you must declare these amendments inadmissible.
I believe that much of Parliament's independence depends on the fact that its principal seat is located in a city other than the place where the Commission and the Council have their seats.
Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote.
This must be understood, not just by the Council of Ministers and the European Council, but also by the Court of Justice.
After the vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 7: Mr President, what you have just done is scandalous!
After the vote: Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, and I shall be very brief.
Mr President, my point of order is based on Article 216 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Article 77 of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community and Article 189 of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.
All these articles, Mr President, most explicitly provide - and they are available to you - that the seat of the institutions shall be determined by common accord of the Governments of the Member States.
The Edinburgh declaration, which is an international treaty, also forms part of the references.
Mr President, at its meeting on 24 June 1995 the Committee on the Rules of Procedure gave a mandate to its chairman and to the rapporteurs to recommend a vote on the Nordmann and Ford reports, pursuant to Rule 114 of our Rules of Procedure.
Some of the provisions contained in their amendments have, in any case, already been the subject of lengthy discussions within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and furthermore they will be discussed again during the preparation of subsequent reports which will be necessary for the continuation of our work.
Amendment No 4, if I understand correctly, is thereby withdrawn.
Mr President, I owe our colleagues an explanation regarding Amendment No 10.
Before the vote on Amendment No 10: Mr President, this amendment was not tabled in due time and is therefore to be regarded as an oral amendment.
In the interests of transparency and in the desire to ensure disclosure of all the financial provisions affecting us, I therefore oppose this amendment and I have no doubt that I shall find twelve other Members to oppose it with me.
I cannot see even the slightest error in that course of action, and so we shall now vote on Amendment No 10.
After the vote on Amendment No 10: Mr President, expanding on what I said earlier, I shall also call you inventive.
In our Rules of Procedure, provision is clearly made for compromise amendments when there are a number of amendments and when in order to resolve clashes between two or more amendments a compromise amendment is agreed by two or more political groups.
Had he been here a little earlier his French voters might have been happier about the outcome of the vote on the Brussels/Strasbourg question which was lost by one vote. (Laughter) Madam President, on behalf of our group I should like to reemphasize that it was a matter of great importance to us to vote against the trans-European networks.
In addition, it is now undisputed that readiness to finance these crazy projects is declining.
As the Spanish Minister of the Environment made clear when he addressed our Parliament last year, such enormous central roadbuilding projects make no sense whatsoever, because they concentrate wealth to the detriment of the underprivileged and remote regions, since these transEuropean networks link large population centres which already enjoy a high level of development, these being the only areas in which it pays to engage in such expensive flagship projects.
The environmental clause with which Parliament sought to redress the balance in certain respects has been watered down in the compromise.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply out of a sense of responsibility that I am voting for the common project.
Although, on the one hand, Article 20 pays special attention to projects concerning multi-modal transport and priority attention to the 'Adriatic Corridor' and a reading of Article 19 reveals the purely indicative nature of the list of 14 Essen projects, on the other hand, the entire affair, which has now been dragging on for years, bears witness both to the terrible behaviour of the Council, which has often taken action in total disregard of Parliament, and to the negative outcome of the Florence Summit.
I hope the Italian Government, together with the Government of the Union, will be able to guarantee the effective implementation of projects that could, especially in the case of multi-modal transport, really bring the peripheral regions into closer contact with central and northern Europe.
The first relates to the Rhône-Saône-Rhine wide inland waterway.
This link is shown in the documents supplied by the French Authorities, but it is high time they told us clearly whether or not they believe that this waterway - which has been delayed for nearly a quarter of a century - is still profitable today, and whether its completion is compatible with environmental protection.
My second point is along the same lines, but in this case I refer to the high-speed rail link.
We in the Freedom Party voted for the report on guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport networks because the Brenner Tunnel, an important project for Austria, is part of these guidelines.
We note, however, that the new approach has considerably eroded the legal status of the list of priorities in Annex III, thereby jeopardizing the building of the Brenner Tunnel, which is of such great importance to Austria.
On the contrary, the proposed guidelines on the transport network will result in an increase of CO2 emissions by 15-18 %, to be added to the already expected increase of 42 % until the year 2010.
The trans-European transport network should be a modern, sustainable network adapted to the demands of citizens and the environment.
That is why we welcome this general plan to be put into execution by the year 2010.
However, in respect of Portugal we have to raise some reservations.
In 1995 the Portuguese government showed an interest in building this link on a route between the IP5 and IP3 highways with an extension across to the north-south motorway somewhere between Lisbon and Oporto.
This solution does not serve the objectives of harmonious development of the national territory as a whole.
The Commission has itself pointed out that emissions of carbon dioxide will increase by almost 40 % under the 'business as usual' scenario.
In terms of energy consumption rail transport is more effective and should be supported today.
If all types of transport had to pay their own environmental costs rail transport would automatically become competitive.
We had hoped it would be possible to discuss the projects set out as priorities by the Essen Council of December 1994, and perhaps even to replace some of them with more substantial, more useful or simply more feasible projects.
The two lines added concerning protection of the environment, which are, in any case, inadequate, do nothing to change our negative opinion of this document.
Those national politicians who believe that Europe cannot help to combat unemployment by carrying out infrastructure projects over and above the national interest have totally misunderstood.
Hoppenstedt report In this report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Parliament is maintaining its position from the first reading in January this year.
The point is to ensure that in the selection of projects eligible for support as part of the development of trans-European telecommunications networks, sufficient emphasis is placed on projects which have a practical utility value for both businesses and private users of telecommunications services.
Of the 25 amendments which Parliament adopted at first reading, the Council has so far accepted 14.
There is every reason to encourage the committee and its rapporteur to maintain the amendments tabled in the recommendation during the discussions which must now be expected to start in the conciliation committee.
The preparations for the approximation of Member States' legislation have, however, been long and complicated (the first reading in the European Parliament took place as long ago as April 1994), and this has greatly restricted my ability to exert any influence over the report at second reading in the European Parliament.
We are asking those four countries, as we ask all countries moving forward to democracy, to achieve very quickly what took us several decades - if not several centuries - to achieve.
The majority in the House has failed to rise to that challenge, by refusing to adopt the amendments we have tabled.
This is a first step, though no more than that, towards a definition of the status of Member of the European Parliament defined at Union level.
No doubt it was impossible, as yet, to go beyond this compromise, given the diversity of traditions and practices in force in the various Member States.
Eriksson and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), Holm and Schörling (V), in writing. (SV) For us democracy is synonymous with government by the people.
Furthermore, Parliament refused to agree to make public payments by the 'Caisse des Députés' , one of its own service departments.
First, I would say this: in contrast to political life in certain Member States, European politics has not so far been the subject of any political and financial scandals.
This is a first step, an agreement that was difficult to reach.
Mr Nordmann's report on transparency and Members' financial interests ought to be resulting in strict rules on the influence of lobbyists on the work of the European Parliament.
That is why I have voted against the Nordmann report today.
In short, I shall vote for this report - assuming at least that the amendment of the European People's Party is rejected - but without the slightest enthusiasm and in the knowledge that it is nothing more than a political sop.
Obviously transparency is vital if citizens are to recognise themselves in their representatives.
I doubt that this report or any other will make any contribution to this, something that should be a fundamental objective of any politician.
Transparency can only result from a culture rooted in a concept of participatory and widespread citizenship and the concept of the State at the service of the citizen.
That is the case of this report for which I voted out of respect for my colleague and out of solidarity for my group - but without any conviction.
To summarise, I believe that this report could have gone much further in establishing rules on the ethics governing Members' work in Parliament.
BSE Madam President, I should like to speak to the few colleagues who are willing to listen, because that seems to me to be the best way of voicing some feelings that could never be expressed on paper.
The joint resolution on which we have just voted has links with two other resolutions on the same subject, which were adopted by Parliament on 31 July and 19 December 1988.
The outcome was that the problem exploded in all its gravity.
I therefore believe that this document, together with the other two, of eight years ago, will end up in the book of records of demagogic outrage, lost opportunities and betrayed expectations.
We should have liked it to be more forceful in some points.
If it is necessary to use this new instrument, which has been available to us since Maastricht, the purpose of its use is not to act against the Commission, be it in the case of BSE or in any other case, but to work with the Commission in its present efforts to identify where faults have occurred with a view to ensuring that both Parliament and the Commission follow a consistent line in future in the implementation of measures against this BSE epidemic.
Madam President, someone - it was Charles Maurras - said that you should never despair in politics, not even of the European Parliament.
No political responsibility for the Commission, and not even any political or criminal responsibility for Jacques Delors.
In its handling of the 'mad cow' crisis, the Commission claims that it has always acted, within the limits of its powers and on the bases of the knowledge available to it at the time, in the best interests of public health in Europe.
President Santer told us that the Commission must be judged by its acts and not on hearsay.
In May 1990, when France wanted to prohibit the importing of certain British beef and veal products, the European Commission threatened to bring proceedings against France before the Court of Justice, as recently recalled by Henri Nallet, the former Minister of Agriculture.
Consequently, if we judge it by its acts, as its President wants us to, the Commission has to be found guilty.
There is nothing accidental about this deplorable attitude: on the contrary, it reflects the constant priorities of the Commission, those same priorities which have isolated that institution from public opinion.
At the moment, we are directly encouraging the spread of animal disease through our systems of support.
I voted in favour of the resolution on BSE, because of the assurances given by Commissioner Fischler that full background information would be made available on all measures taken by the Commission and other EU authorities since the early 1980s and because of the further research which has been announced.
Several years ago our society was horrified to discover the consequences of its folly: yesterday we had AIDS and the trade in blood, today we have the consequences of contaminated bone meal, to mention only the most visible areas of these terrible abuses....
And I am scandalized to hear the diatribes of those who, elsewhere, eulogize this society based on money, competition and individual success to the detriment of a more collective and qualitative idea of its organization.
We have the right to know, first in order to restrict the damage done by past errors, but also in order to prevent them happening again, in some form of other.
The Commission must bring in immediate new proposals to prepare for what will be a very difficult trading period in the autumn.
Contrary to the statements made by Mr Santer, scientific information existed from 1990 onwards suggesting first that BSE could cross the species barrier and secondly a connection between Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans and BSE in ruminants.
The European Parliament's Commission of Inquiry is an obligatory step.
The Court of Justice will have to impose exemplary penalties, and only then will we be able once again to think in terms of confidence and of relaunching the consumption of beef and veal.
Madam President, I am amazed that there have been no explanations of vote on the calendar of part-sessions.
Well, last year there were explanations of vote on the calendar and I want to make one on behalf of my group.
I quite understand, Madam President, but last year the practice was different.
But as this item appeared on the agenda, I think that this vote should be taken now.
If a specific amendment is adopted, the calendar is altered accordingly, but there is no final vote on the calendar in its entirety.
My analogy with particular types of political movements was an attempt to reinforce my argument that this Parliament and this House in particular must abide by the balance of powers and the different competencies attributed to the different institutions in the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mr Crawley.
In respect of the Fernández Albor report, I should like to say on behalf of the group of the party of European Socialists that, in our opinion, this report is a fairly complete and balanced assessment of the European Union's activity in the field of the CFSP in 1995.
It must also be an instrument for creating a whole culture of preventive security - a culture of security for the old world, for Europe, and that is why I am in favour of working further in that direction through a general, reinforced foreign and security policy which is aimed at the whole of Europe.
This concerns paragraph 21 of the report, which refers to a common system of deterrence.
His name is Bjarne Riis.
It is not yet clear if any decisive moves will be taken in 1996 to start serious work on what the Maastricht Treaty describes as the eventual framing of a common defence policy.
There is no suggestion to hand at yet, for example, that France or Britain is ready to hand over its independent nuclear deterrent to the WEU or to some new European defence organization.
For my part I believe that Ireland would be very reluctant to become part of a defence alliance still committed in certain circumstances to the use of nuclear weapons.
I believe that we have a duty to contribute to the upholding of peace but I think it legitimate to do so in a manner true to our own traditions.
The eventual framing of a common defence policy should allow Member States to play different roles - which they will do in any case - and to make different contributions.
Mr President, we are grateful to the rapporteur who is, moreover, the new chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, for his excellent report.
The others were continuations or amended versions of initiatives taken in 1994.
Although the Commission has had joint power of initiative since Maastricht, it made no use of it at all in 1995.
The IGC must equip the European Union with a proper common policy as promised during the Maastricht summit.
It is also crucial that a real analysis should be conducted of where exactly the insecurity lies as regards threats to security from the rest of the world.
The institutional device best capable of providing this function will be one that strengthens its intergovernmental character and gives it its full effectiveness while reinforcing the part played by the institutions that represent the wills of the Member States.
This adjustment of the institutional balance would need to be one of the priorities of the intergovernmental conference.
Mr President, the report on progress on the Common Foreign and Security Policy gives Parliament a welcome opportunity to discuss this important topic.
A large majority here approves the objective of making the EU's foreign and security policy more effective, to enable us to strengthen peace and security both in our own Continent and throughout the world.
Three new Member States, Finland, Sweden and Austria, which do not belong to any military alliance, bring a new approach into the Union.
It has sometimes been hard to explain, for example, that Finland's non-aligned status is not just a way of getting a free ride in security terms but, in our view, increases the security at this time in Northern Europe, and in particular the Baltic.
We must beware of solutions which may lead to an increase in tension and a new military division.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can welcome the fact that Article J.7 of the Treaty on European Union allows us to have an annual debate on the implementation of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Secondly, as far as common security is concerned, the only decisive action is still the prohibition of antipersonnel mines, while in the field of human rights, we, personally, would prefer to see the European Union doing more about the constantly threatened security of its own citizens before worrying about what is happening outside its common borders.
In conclusion, we can only deplore the way our Parliament is disregarded by the Council, which makes no political response to our recommendations and supplies us with no regular written information - something which is essential for better cooperation between institutions and a better definition of a genuine common policy with clearly defined objectives.
The human rights situation in the country is still far from satisfactory, however.
It is a competent analysis and shows that the Union and above all the Commission were very active last year in a wide range of areas.
That role was left more or less to the United States.
The rapporteur rightly notes that a lot has been said on a lot of subjects, but that little has been done in the area of security.
Mr President, without oversimplifying things, a judgement of common foreign and defence policy could be summarized thus: we do what we can, but not always.
This report has two sides to it.
As far as my own country is concerned, I can say that our neutrality has neither prevented us from participating in any previous initiatives nor will it prevent us from not only actively supporting but also helping to shape this common international policy of the Union.
But there is also a second side to this report, and that is the presentation of its strategy for defence policy, with which I - and no doubt others too - have certain problems.
Nothing has done more to harm the European ideal and the good name of the European Union than the lack of such means in the case of the former Yugoslavia.
The delegation of the Austrian People's Party therefore supports the motion for a resolution, and we also believe that we are thereby fulfilling the terms of the declaration made by Austria on its accession, in which it expressed its interest in a common foreign and security policy as well as its willingness to cooperate in the creation of this common foreign, security and defence policy.
The present coalition Government of Socialists and People's Party have stated in their working agreement that we as Austrians intend to be among the leading proponents of further development of the Union.
That applies to the Schengen Agreement, it applies to economic and monetary union and it applies to the common foreign and security policy, because here too we want to play a creative role and because we see this as the great advantage of our membership, which we want to be an active and cooperative contribution with all our partners to the development of Europe.
One positive feature of these structures is the neutrality of four EU Member States.
There is no military threat on the horizon which would be a reason for the European Union changing into a military alliance by uniting with the Western European Union.
In my opinion, Europe's security can best be promoted by preserving the current basic military security structures and by developing pan-European and transatlantic security cooperation on that basis within the framework of the OSCE, the NACC and the Partnership for Peace.
On the other hand it is important to develop peaceful cooperation which will promote stability and democracy in the Eastern parts of our Continent.
The European Union must tighten its cooperation with all the States of Europe and must promote pan-European integration by exploiting, inter alia , the possibilities offered by the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
The EU's common foreign and security policy must be developed but it must be based on unanimity among the Member States, and it must respect the differing security policy choices of the Member States.
Recently a German Council official told me that his Brussels office might as well be in Bonn, as his main point of reference was the German Foreign Ministry.
Too often in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy we ask the CFSP secretariat what the EU stance on a particular situation is, only to be told that we do not have one because the Foreign Ministers have not met yet to discuss the matter.
No wonder Richard Holbrooke recently boasted that Europe slept while President Clinton resolved a particular European crisis.
In 1995, Richard Holbrook took charge of things in the former Yugoslavia, showing the way in terms of determination and high profile.
He also derided the Europeans to the extent that some have seen it as a model of the leadership which Europe should be providing in its own backyard.
In the last year it has adopted only three common measures and five common positions, and the Commission has not exercised its right of initiative at all.
The Council has, in addition, ignored recommendations from the European Parliament on crucial matters including the crisis in the former Yugoslavia, Turkey, in relation to which the European Union continues to display insufficient sensitivity on human rights issues, and on the Cyprus question, on which - despite the European Parliament's resolution - the Council is essentially refusing to undertake an initiative in the form of joint actions which could help towards a solution of the problem.
A policy which can set a new standard in international relations.
Now, in a new era, with the Cold War over, we have the chance to construct a security policy without nuclear weapons.
The proposal in paragraph 21 of the Fernández-Albor report must be rejected and replaced by Amendment No 10.
The Socialist Group considers this to be so important that we will vote against the report as a whole if our Amendment No 10 is not adopted.
Mr President, this report, in so far as it is a survey of the progress achieved to date in implementing a common foreign and security policy, has much to commend it.
The report underlines the importance of common action on human, social and democratic rights and it emphasizes the central objective of peace.
It is therefore very unfortunate that the report also puts forward proposals for a common defence policy which are not acceptable in a number of Member States and go further than public opinion would be prepared to support.
We should not be seeking to create a new nuclear power in the world, but paragraph 21 declares that without a common defence policy and a common system of deterrence the Union will never be able to implement a common foreign and security policy.
I myself, together with the French socialist delegation on whose behalf I speak, sincerely agree with this general view of things, which is why we are preparing to vote in favour of this report.
Basically, then, I share this enthusiasm, but our rapporteur allows himself to be carried away by it in two areas: that of vocabulary, as regards both courtesy and diplomatic caution in his report, and that of the conceptual relationship linking foreign policy, security and defence.
As to the first point, the fact that some governments and - as we have just heard -some national public opinions in the Union do not in fact propose to take part in the implementation of an effectively common foreign policy should prompt us to understand them and endorse their awareness of strategic and diplomatic issues that concern us all, rather than harassing or denouncing them.
The phrase in Article 20 to the effect that there is a lack of the necessary political will for integration among certain Member States is more likely to be perceived as aggressive than as an attempt at persuasion.
Understanding that is the key to our future common foreign and security policy.
The second consequence of our rapporteur's ardour is that he talks about defence rather than security.
In Articles 9 and 21, the concern expressed is for a common vision of the security of foreign policy.
The definition of institutions, procedures and means of defence can only be a consequence of it.
Finally, the same enthusiasm leads the rapporteur to speak of a common system of deterrence.
But we must dispense with this word, which is unfortunate as regards what it means in non-nuclear terms.
Mr President, the excellent report presented by Mr Fernández Albor on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs might give rise to some specific comments and a few examples.
That means I can only point out the important function played by the Spanish Foreign Affairs Minister, something which is normal given the very special links between Spain and Cuba, links of a historic, cultural, linguistic and human nature.
The only difference is that they received him in secret and not in the transparency which we have always tried to apply to our own external policies.
The second practical observation refers, on the contrary, to failure rather than success.
In the first case this was a sign of the success of diplomacy based on economic reasons, the defence of legitimate interests, without any doubt, but perhaps slightly forgetting the dramatic situation which the Cuban people are experiencing.
Finally, and here I direct myself again to the Irish presidency, I should like to call upon that admirable country to make progress in a policy for setting up genuine common diplomacy.
But once again, as I have travelled around the world I have asked myself and now I am saying it before the European Parliament whether it might not be possible to consider setting up joint embassies, in other words bringing together our diplomatic services so that we can be represented jointly in other countries.
Therefore a country like Ireland, which has such an admirable tradition but which naturally cannot have diplomatic representation in every country in the world, might take steps which perhaps nations with bigger populations would not, on the other hand, be able to take.
Russia is a great independent nation which deserves a genuine spirit of partnership, because Russia is an essential element in the establishment of a balanced multipolar world.
It is perfectly clear that the rapporteur too appreciates that when we speak of the common foreign and security policy we may do so in a very broad sense and also in a narrow sense.
The Commission has recorded its views on the shortcomings of the common foreign and security policy, which are readily admitted and pointed out, in the report submitted to the Intergovernmental Conference.
The European Commission at any rate will continue to play its part.
Naturally, it has no powers of its own in the area of defence, but is very closely associated with the Union's common foreign and security policy and also has a joint power of initiative which it will use.
This is enormously important to the future of the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this my first occasion to address the European Parliament in its plenary session, may I thank those Members who welcomed the Irish presidency programme here this morning and who welcomed me personally.
If we do not accept that, let us remind ourselves that over 100 million people are kicking on the door waiting to join this Union.
Secondly, we must think in terms of security in its broadest sense.
But there is an Article 5 commitment in the WEU Treaty.
In other words it is possible to reform that Treaty in the same timeframe as the examination and reform of the European Union Treaties.
The suggestion has been put forward that Article 5 could perhaps be looked at in the context of a protocol to a new Treaty, as was done recently by the President of Parliament in a contribution to the IGC debate.
In conclusion, the role of foreign and external relations which Ireland, as a small Member State, has to conduct on behalf of the presidency in this our fifth presidency is a far greater role than in any of our previous four presidencies.
That in itself is an indication of the growth in the whole evolution of the role of the European Union in the common foreign and security policy area.
Thank you very much, Mr Mitchell.
The debate is closed.
Broad economic policy guidelines The next item is the statement by the Council on the broad economic policy guidelines of the Member States and the Community.
Mr President, I am very pleased to be here today, as President-inOffice of the Economic and Finance Ministers of the European Union, to address Parliament on the broad economic policy guidelines of the Member States.
As you know, the Council adopted, at a session on 8 July, a recommendation setting out the broad guidelines on the economic policies of the Member States of the Community.
The guidelines incorporate a strategy which aims at generating a sustainable increase in both the rate of economic growth and its employment content.
As the guidelines rightly point out, budgetary consolidation does not just mean budgetary cuts, but also a redirection of government spending towards investment and human capital.
The second major element in the strategy concerns actions to raise permanently the Union's potential rate of growth and to improve its competitive position both in its domestic and foreign markets.
Budgetary consolidation efforts will also restore confidence in the financial markets and exert downward pressure on interest rates on a sustainable basis.
The guidelines also recommend redirecting government spending, to the greatest extent possible, towards productive activities such as investment in infrastructure, human capital and active labour market measures while not endangering the necessary reduction in budget deficits.
With this in mind, and to increase the employment content of growth, the guidelines draw on the recommendations of the Commission's White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment.
The most important elements in this strategy are measures to reduce the barriers to employing people, active labour market policies and structural changes in the functioning of product and labour markets.
In the third element of the strategy the guidelines recommend active policies towards employment.
Moreover, the Council considers as vital the reform of the educational systems so as to equip more people with the skills required in today's labour market.
But the Council has also made it clear that the labour market alone should not have to bear the burden of adaptation.
We all have an important role to play in tackling our serious level of unemployment.
In its report to the European Council in Florence the Commission said that it would intensify its dialogue with the social partners on macroeconomic issues.
Employment is our joint concern and is, of course, the concern of the citizens of the European Community.
I can assure you that the Council supports fully those two fundamental provisions of the Treaty dealing with the general objectives of European Union policy and the tasks of a European Central Bank.
A reference to the transEuropean networks - the TENs - in the context of the guidelines has been a matter of contention between the Member States.
However, on 8 July, the Council agreed to set up a high-level working party appointed by ministers and assisted by the Commission and the European Investment Bank to examine this contentious issue and to make recommendations before the informal Ecofin Council in Dublin in September.
I have the impression that the concrete policy actions suggested in the resolution, adopted by Parliament on 19 June are quite similar in substance to those the Council recommends.
The commitment of Member States to tackling unemployment led to the adoption of a multi-annual employment programme at national level.
The implementation of the Madrid recommendations and the monitoring of the multiannual programmes will form the basis of the follow-up in 1996 of the employment policy of the Union.
Unfortunately I have to share the view of the European Parliament that implementation of the guidelines by Member States has been slow.
However, it is possible that the effects of some positive measures may have been temporarily concealed by the slow-down in economic growth.
In my view, the approach taken in the guidelines since 1994 is still valid.
But I recognise that we have a serious problem about its implementation.
Firstly, because certain structural measures require not only legislative procedures but also require consultation with, and the participation of, the social partners.
The Council considers that the level of interest rates does not only lie in the hands of monetary authorities, but depends substantially on achieving sufficient fiscal consolidation and appropriate responses from the market.
If credible plans for budgetary consolidation and agreements leading to moderate pay increases were achieved, market expectations could be favourably influenced and conditions would be more favourable to sustained monetary easing.
I can assure you, Members of the European Parliament, that the Irish presidency will make all possible efforts to accelerate the implementation of the guidelines in a positive and constructive spirit and with a particular emphasis on the need for much stronger employment growth.
In addition, the Council will prepare the annual joint report on employment for the regular Dublin European Council.
I would also draw your attention to the fact that the Irish presidency is organizing a conference on local employment initiatives in November of this year.
The objectives of achieving strong, sustainable economic growth and increasing the employment intensity of that growth are receiving considerable attention, not only in the broad economic policy guidelines, but also in the wider work of the Commission and the European Council.
In all this work there is a clear recognition that we need to tackle this serious problem of our high level of unemployment and the social exclusion which it entails.
But we need to keep our attention focused on the employment objective and to intensify the debate on the most appropriate policy responses which cover a very broad spectrum of actions.
I am looking forward to the common efforts of Parliament and the Council, the Commission and the Member States to improve policies towards the employment objective.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ecofin Council for his presentation today but also for the way in which he has already given an undertaking to the European Parliament on ensuring that we have a better relationship with Ecofin than we have in the past.
The third issue relates to this idea of budgetary consolidation.
The fourth issue is in relation to the stability pact.
We want the President-in-Office's assurance that the stability pact will fit exactly with the terms and the spirit of the Treaty on European Union and also that when he presents that stability pact to this House during his presidency he will ensure that it also fits in exactly with the priorities of the Essen Summit.
We refer to this in paragraph 4 of our resolution, the fourth indent, where we specifically state that the current approach is based on wishful thinking.
There is nothing either in the communiqué from the Florence European Council, or indeed in the Ecofin recommendations and the Commission recommendations, which leads us to vary that opinion expressed by Parliament.
We would also perhaps have liked to have a little bit more attention paid to the questions raised elsewhere in paragraph 4 of our resolution, particularly in the sixth indent where we refer to the creation of an environment where employers in the European Union are encouraged to take on workers.
I would have liked, as rapporteur, to have had something more specific, drawing attention to the burdens imposed on employers, because we did draw attention in our resolution, paragraph 8, to the need to reduce non-wage labour costs, particularly at the lower end of the wage scale.
That indeed is referred to as well in our paragraph 4, sixth indent, because it is the impact of high social costs or taxes on jobs at the lower end of the wage scale which is contributing to maintaining uncomfortably high levels, particularly of youth unemployment.
On the question of uncomfortably high levels, I would like also to draw attention to the points that we made in our resolution, recital B, to the historically high levels of unemployment here in the European Union: currently 18 million people unemployed with 50 million suffering from social exclusion.
There is one other point which I would have liked the President-in-Office to have raised, because it is something which I included in our original resolution, and that is the reference in paragraph 4, seventh indent, to the need for us to study the best practice in the 15 Member States and elsewhere, particularly in the United States, to identify policies which can achieve results in bringing down unemployment.
Mr President, two of the four main priorities the Irish presidency of the European Union has set for this six-month period concern economic issues: efficient finance and employment.
This means that 50 % of what is to be done or improved concern the economy.
This is why the broad guidelines the Council is required to set out in this area are of at least equal importance on the European stage.
The Community was born of the economic sector and has grown to include the social sector; it must now seek a fair balance between the two.
That said, we believe that today's broad economic-policy guidelines should focus primarily on small and mediumsized enterprises: although, individually, these enterprises are representative of the micro-economy, together, they are of macro-economic importance, because of their number, which amounts to some 18 million in the European Union.
Eighteen million, Minister Quinn, is also the number of people unemployed in the Community.
I am referring, in particular, to tourism, which the Irish presidency has rightly included among its priorities, but I am also referring to the crafts sector, services and the commercial distribution system.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to welcome the beginning of the Irish presidency and the Irish presidency's good will to cooperate with the European Parliament.
However, we in the Liberal Group in a debate held a month ago on the guidelines of economic policies in the Union, expressed our concern that there was an excessively monetarist slant to the guidelines in economic policy in general, perhaps because money supply is one of the easiest parts of the economy to control.
On the other hand, we were asking for an effort to be made to reduce interest rates, as the OECD has called for, in order to offset the negative aspects of the economic climate brought about by budgetary cuts, in order to boost economic growth, without which it would be very difficult to achieve EMU which, as the Irish presidency and the European Parliament have shown, is our end objective.
Yet again, the European Union is refusing to draw the necessary conclusions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you say that you do not wish under any circumstances to relax monetary policy and that you continue to be concerned about inflation.
It is, however, clearly not possible to admit this in the face of market forces.
At the same time, though, it is impossible not to be struck by a contradiction between this declaration of priorities and the content of the guidelines proposed by the Council of Ministers regarding the economic policies of the Member States.
What Europe needs is confidence - not just market confidence but consumer confidence, too, and the way to consumer confidence is through a future without unemployment.
Yet we see nothing in the proposals by the Council of Ministers specifically designed to provide a swift cure for the drastic employment situation in the European Union.
However, if we consider, analyse and evaluate the economic policy guidelines of the European Union, we really do start to wonder to what extent they represent an appropriate policy mix.
We do not want economic and monetary union to be merely a milestone in our monetary history; we want it to benefit the people of this European Union.
When I assess the underlying economic policy principles, I also wonder how the years that still lie ahead can be used to make it even clearer, by means of the economic policy guidelines, that we need a political strategy at European level for the things we can no longer regulate at national level.
The globalization of markets has not left Europe untouched, and even though the single market and monetary union are appropriate responses to this challenge, there is still a pressing need to establish a framework governing the operation of the social market economy at European level.
The Council's declaration on the broad guidelines on economic policies in the Member States and the European Union includes, from my point of view, the right approach in that it attempts to mobilise all the possible mechanisms which could lead to growth and, by extension, employment.
We probably have the best trained youth in the history of Europe and yet there are regions in the Community with more than 50 % youth unemployment.
Every effort must be directed into creating jobs and assessed in terms of its contribution to that purpose, and increase competitiveness in European industry should be the linchpin of job creation.
The Europe we need in order to create employment must be stable, healthy, competitive and 'solidaire' .
It must be stable because investment requires stability and maintenance of the objective of Monetary Union creates a framework of certainty in which the Member States must make an effort to place themselves and participate.
It must be healthy because the creation of employment calls for coherent policies with an objective of low inflation and which have a tendency to bring down interest rates.
All of this calls for a reduced public deficit because high financial wastage could make solidarity policies unviable in the future.
From this point of view, the Council declaration calling upon the Member States to reduce their public deficits is necessary if we are to attain these objectives.
From this point of view I call upon the Council to make progress in ways of applying the structural funds as of 1999 in order to make job creation a priority.
I believe the Economic Commission must now do the necessary studies in relation to the regions that continue to be disadvantaged - and disadvantaged irrespective of the economic indicators applied - where there is a high rate of unemployment, depopulation, a weak industrial base and poor rural infrastructure.
The border counties have suffered more than any other region in Ireland and possible more commercially than Northern Ireland, remembering that the national plan was in place prior to the cessation of violence.
In conclusion, can I say that the marine industry is the backbone of the coastal regions.
The rural areas require funding from cohesion funds that should have a rural, a social and a regional factor and not just an economic factor.
Mr President, in its priorities for the coming months the Irish presidency has made it clear that it is in favour of virtue and firmly opposed to sin.
But, as we all know, the real world has a way of making life more complicated.
As ever, my own country throws up the most paradoxes.
The government proclaims its staunch support for the single market, but threatens to exclude the UK from the single currency.
What it fails to realize is that an opt-out from the single currency, taken to its logical economic conclusion, will lead to a lock-out from the single market.
I hope that the Irish presidency will devote time and energy to explaining these facts of life to the British Government.
From this point of view, I should like to make this remark, Mr Quinn, about the way in which the convergence policies are being applied in different countries.
We cannot continue to develop the internal market unless we look at this aspect in a decisive way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no denying it, it has to be said: despite the improvement in inflation, monetary stability and interest rates we are having great difficulty producing the necessary growth to stimulate the jobs market.
The ECOFIN Council has a bad reputation as regards measures to combat unemployment.
If fiscal erosion continues the stability pact will put increasing pressure on social security systems and this will impart further deflationary impulses to the economy as a whole.
The same is true of the single currency.
There is a danger in going out to the citizens of the European Union and saying to them that Maastricht was about unemployment, the single currency is about unemployment and then saying - if we fail - that Europe has failed us and let us down.
We set the framework at European level and, as time goes on, there will be an evening up.
Experience shows us that in the very short term they may succeed but the only thing those countries can do is to provide their own workers with lower standards of living.
I wish to thank the President-in-Office for his resolve.
He will know the critical tone of Parliament's resolution on the broad guidelines last month.
It is in this year's guidelines; it was in last year's guidelines; it was in the guidelines the year before and it was in the Delors White Paper.
Commissioner Monti's paper for Verona establishes clearly that tax on the low paid has gone up.
Mr President, on the broad economic policy guidelines of the Member States and the Union little could be hoped of the declaration of this Council whose presidency, on the other hand, is the cause of some hope.
As indicated this morning by Dick Spring, the President-in-Office of the Council, maintaining the momentum towards Economic and Monetary Union is one of the main priorities of the Irish presidency.
So, by the end of the year, I hope that we will see real progress on issues such as the maintenance of stability in stage 3, the exchangerate relationship between the Euro and the pre-in currencies and, especially, on the technical preparatory work for the legal framework of the Euro.
A major part of this work will be ensuring greater economic policy coordination between all 15 Member States.
In this regard, I have two main criticisms to make of Ecofin and European Council work so far - and I mean this in a very constructive way.
EMU must meet the needs not only of central bankers but also of the millions of unemployed throughout the Union.
Secondly, the Council is paying little or no attention to Parliament's legitimate and legally enshrined role in the moves towards EMU.
I would specifically like an assurance from the President-in-Office that the key decisions will not be taken by the Irish presidency until we in Parliament have been given the chance to offer our own opinions.
Mr President, the Council admits in its text on the broad economic guidelines that since it presented its broad economic guidelines to Parliament in July 1995, the situation in Europe has deteriorated in contrast to what was expected.
When the OECD is forecasting in its annual employment outlook, published last Monday, a deterioration in the levels of employment in European countries such as France and Germany over the next 18 months, can the Council really be arguing that Europe should carry on the same policies regardless of the results, in the hope - not in the reasoned expectation, but the hope - that things will somehow turn out to be all right?
Fiscal strictness undermines our march towards the common currency which I, at least, support.
What Parliament was saying with reference to an easing of monetary policy is that there is no chance of reducing unemployment if the policy mix remains so unidirectional as it is now.
The Council is essentially single-mindedly pursuing one target: control of inflation below 2 %, below 1 % - even below zero % perhaps - forgetting that there might be such a thing as a natural rate of inflation.
I am surprised that the hardened monetarists who write those papers and are so ready to accept that there is a natural rate of unemployment have forgotten that there might be a natural rate of inflation and that if you try to squash prices below that you might cause a reaction in the economy analogous to what happens when you go below the natural rate of unemployment.
This one-sidedness of policies is what really frightens us and what we have to escape if we are to have anything more than ritualistic reference to the reduction of unemployment.
The success of the Irish presidency will undoubtedly be a success for the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has to be recognised that if most European Union countries are to meet the convergence criteria by 1997 that is mostly dependent on Europe's being able to register, as of the second half of this year, a rather higher growth rate in their economies.
From this point of view, the Commission and the Council should give put greater emphasis on the need to work out a more efficient monetary policy aimed at promoting investment and consumption throughout the European Union, together with a policy of budgetary consolidation which guarantees a successful transition towards Economic and Monetary Union.
For Portugal and its government, fulfilment of the convergence criteria by 1997 is a fundamental objective, I insist, and it is fundamental to the economic policy which has to be followed and will be followed in coming years.
It should also be mentioned here that the current success of the present round of privatizations leads us to believe that the percentage of public debt deficit in relation to GDP, which is slightly higher than 70 %, will be going down in the near future.
It is the overwhelming conviction of most people in Portugal that Portugal's inclusion in the first group of countries to adopt the single currency would be decisive for the country's future.
We hope that the economic growth of the European Community will help to make this fundamental objective possible.
So, between the Commission and the Ecofin there is this technical working group on which both Ministers from the various Member States and the central banks are represented.
In his second question he suggested that perhaps the relationship between ECOFIN and Parliament needs to be reviewed and suggested that in September or early October we could meet to discuss in what way that relationship could be improved from an institutional point of view.
On behalf of the presidency, I am prepared to have such a meeting and to investigate it.
It is in the interests of all our citizens and the necessary political support to which I will address myself in a few seconds that a better understanding and a better form of communication between us should be established.
I agree with Mr Cassidy that we have to look not just at best practices in employment terms within the European Union but also at the other two pillars of economic activity in the global market, the Asia-Pacific rim and North America, to see if we can transpose from those totally different cultures best practices that are suitable to adaptation within the European social model.
I have long held the view that the European social model of social protection which I, as deputy leader of the Irish Labour Party, fully support, cannot safely transpose itself into the next century in the context of a global market.
The general question centred around whether monetary policy can be relaxed or whether in fact Ecofin is too obsessed with monetary policy.
Sound monetary policy is the prerequisite.
The fact that we are moving slowly but inexorably towards economic and monetary union is the sole policy objective that is driving the broad consensus within Ecofin and, I dare say, within this Chamber as well.
I will carry a very clear message to my colleagues in Ecofin, namely the concern of this Parliament that while being fully committed to EMU and to the project of the single currency, you are concerned about the failure in relation to employment and the consequent lack of popular support to live with the discipline necessary to create the single currency.
We all ignore that lack of support at our peril and therefore we have to find ways within the framework of budgetary discipline, within the framework of the convergence criteria to address a concern which you, as elected representatives, are properly conveying here in this democratic assembly.
Mr President, very briefly, while adding my own best wishes to those already expressed in this House for the success of the Irish presidency, I would like to make three quick points to provide a degree of reassurance, and perhaps dispel a degree of misunderstanding, regarding unemployment and economic and monetary union, the stability pact and the present state of the economy.
The first is that, in order to move forward to the single currency, we have to reduce our public deficits.
Well, today, public deficits in Europe are siphoning off 40 % or 50 % or perhaps even more of domestic saving, which would be better used to finance productive investment and job creation rather than debts inherited from previous generations.
At present, we believe that the monetary fluctuations of 1995 cost Europe about 1.2 to 1.5 % growth over two years, and 1.5 million jobs.
The stability pact is a necessity.
I can assure you, too, that we are concerned with remaining within the scope of the Treaty and that, as the Commission sees it, the stability pact must not be concluded outside the Treaty.
The Treaty provides us with all the legal bases necessary to ensure a successful outcome for this instrument which is itself a necessity.
I can tell you that the preparatory work, whether it concerns the stability pact or the legal status of the Euro or even the new European monetary system, all this work being currently of a technical nature, is progressing normally and on schedule.
This preparatory work will be concluded under the Irish presidency, and the Euro will come into being on 1 January 1999.
The investment indicators are good (plus 8 % for 1996).
This is encouraging, because the recovery of investment shows that industry is anticipating a renewal of growth, and it seems to me that the upward trend of investment is likely to be sustained because the production capacity utilization rate is already high within the European Union.
I hope then, as I view these future prospects, that the Irish presidency will be able to steer the European vessel - I must not say down the right road, since we are talking about a maritime country, but through calm waters, which will bring it to port in ideal conditions at the end of the year.
The debate is closed .
It is now 12 months since President Hänsch appointed me as his special mediator on transnationally abducted children.
I say this having visited in the United States last week the Institute for Missing and Exploited Children.
I would suggest that Europol would be a very appropriate place to have this centralized agency capable of responding within 24 hours.
We need specialized, centralized courts in all our countries who will be well briefed and will deal with these cases within 24 hours of them being brought to their notice.
We also need more adequate training for our lawyers and for our judges.
A great many of our children have suffered.
Mr President, the abduction of children across national boundaries is a matter of great concern and an issue that is now being addressed by the Council.
I would like to acknowledge the role that the European Parliament played in bringing this issue to the attention of a wider audience in Europe.
A draft convention on the scope, jurisdiction and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters is currently under consideration by the Council.
It is the view of the Council that this instrument, when it comes into force, will greatly help many citizens in the European Union.
Discussions are ongoing on the draft convention.
Regarding jurisdiction, the draft convention provides that the authorities of a Member State shall be competent to rule on matters relating to the invalidity of a marriage on the basis of certain criteria founded, on the one hand, on the habitual residence of one spouse or both spouses subject to certain conditions and, on the other hand, on the nationality of both spouses or the joint domicile established on a permanent basis.
It is also stipulated that the authorities of the Member State in which a ruling is given on actions relating to the annulment of the marriage, divorce or separation of the spouses shall be competent to take decisions on the exercise of parental authority over every child of both spouses on certain specific conditions, particularly where the children have their habitual residence in the same Member State.
Subject to the working party's discussions, the draft convention provides that the competent authorities shall rule on the exercise of parental authority in conformity with the Hague Convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
Regarding recognition and enforcement of judgments arising from these cases, the draft convention provides that any judgments given concerning the invalidity of a marriage, divorce or the separation of spouses shall have legal effect in the other Member States of the European Union.
It is clear from what I have said that the adoption of this convention will make it possible to establish a more open legal regime in this area.
The aim is to adopt the approach provided for by the Brussels Convention of 1968 which determines the jurisdiction of Member States' courts in civil and commercial matters to facilitate recognition of judgments and to establish a swift procedure for the enforcement of judgments.
No special procedure will be necessary for recognition of judgments.
The honourable Members of the European Parliament will wish to be aware that the Council has examined the provisions in the draft convention on jurisdiction.
At present Council work is focusing on recognition and enforcement provisions of the draft convention.
However, I would like to underline that the Council regards conclusion of this convention as a major priority in work under Title 6 of the Treaty in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters.
I will say that, in pursuing this, I believe that the European Parliament and those Members of Parliament who have taken a particular interest in it have done a signal public service.
Traditionally, responsibility for decisions on custody has rested with national authorities.
In many cases this has resulted in legal disputes which were heart-rending for both parents and children.
Under the draft of the convention which is now being debated by the Council the court which is competent to decide on issues such as divorce, separation or the annulment of a marriage should also be competent to decide on custody.
Once the convention is in place it will be possible to avoid conflicts resulting from the fact that courts in different Member States arrive at contradictory decisions in the same cases.
Finally, Mr President, as the Europol Convention stands today, it does not include any provision which would allow Europol to take on cases involving abducted children.
However, as the honourable Minister said, there is nothing to prevent the presidency taking an initiative on this.
However, as I said, it is important that the Council should take an initiative on this.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
Question No 1 by James Nicholson (H-0573/96) Subject: Peace Policy Will the Council define the present policy objective, in view of the current tension in Northern Ireland and the continued refusal by the IRA to reinstate a ceasefire?
In reply to the honourable Member, on behalf of the Council, I should like to say that all Member States wish to see a lasting, peaceful settlement in Northern Ireland and a renewal of the ceasefire.
The European Union has always unreservedly supported the process of peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland.
Having said that, it is not for the Council to comment on the conduct of the peace process and the positions of the parties involved, which are matters coming outside its sphere of responsibility.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
But also we must ensure that these events - horrible as they have been - do not deter us in our determination to keep going with the peace process.
That is what the Tánaiste said to the House this morning.
The events of the last 10 days have been absolutely terrible for those of us who have held to non-violent and to political traditions over the past 25 years in the most terrible and difficult circumstances.
I am probably the only Member here present who has studied Irish politics at Queens University in Belfast and who has been a practising politician for 17 years now on the island of Ireland.
Question No 2 by Saara-Maria Paakkinen (H-0513/96) Subject: Continued joint funding for NGOs For more than 20 years the European Union has allocated funding to NGOs involved in development cooperation to cover projects implemented in the developing countries and information programmes dealing with development issues.
The funding has gradually increased over the years and in 1996 amounts to ECU 174 million in commitment appropriations.
Until now, funding has been executed by the Commission without the adoption by the Council of a legal basis.
However, in 1995, following an agreement between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the necessity of a legal basis for budget lines, the Commission made a proposal on this issue.
Unfortunately the Council has not yet been able to adopt a common position on this proposal.
The Irish presidency intends to do all it can to ensure that a common position on the nongovernmental organizations co-financing regulation is adopted as rapidly as possible.
Question No 3 by Otto von Habsburg (H-0515/96) Subject: Validity of European Parliament identity cards For many years, the identity cards of Members of the European Parliament have been accepted at Swiss borders for crossing into and out of Switzerland.
Under Article 7 of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities annexed to the Treaty, the Commission may conclude agreements for the laissez-passer issued to Members and servants of the Community's institutions to be recognized as valid travel documents within the territory of third countries.
However, may I suggest that the honourable Member put his question to the Commission which, having negotiated the agreement in question, is best placed to give a definitive answer on this issue.
But, after all, it is also the Council which is competent for countries outside our European Union and especially for a question which has political connotations.
My question is simply: has the Council been informed about the changing attitude in Switzerland?
Question No 4 by Thomas Megahy (H-0531/96) Subject: ' Irreversibility' of EU membership In a summary of proceedings at the Intergovernmental Conference presented to Members of the European Parliament on 5 June 1996 by Elisabeth Guigou (Fr-PSE) and Elmar Brok (Ger-EPP), the following statement was made: ' On the issue of a Member State repeatedly and deliberately violating human rights, or ceasing to be democratic, most representatives agreed that it should be possible to sanction such a State...
In reply to the honourable Member's question, I should like to emphasize that under Article N of the Treaty on European Union, the Council is not party to the Intergovernmental Conference responsible for amending the Treaties.
Thus, the Council is not empowered to adopt any position on the ideas raised in the honourable Member's question.
I am surprised that this was ever said, because I got the feeling that some other countries were so fed up with the present actions of the British Government at the moment they were actually talking about booting them out.
I am not in a position to comment on the last proposal put forward by the honourable Member, but may I say that the Council of Ministers has been preoccupied not with expelling or allowing countries to leave the Union but with the 12 countries which are knocking on the door wishing to join, so attractive does the Union seem to them.
The supplementary question that I want to put is this: would the Minister agree with me that it is an abstract term and that it refers to the knitting together in an interdependent way of the economies of the European Economic Union, so that it becomes very difficult for countries to withdraw, while at the same time recognizing that it is a voluntary organization and whoever wants to leave can do so?
As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
The document presented by the presidency at the informal Agricultural Council in Otranto, Italy, on 7 May 1996 regarding the establishment of free-trade areas and their effects on Community agriculture retains the status of an informal presidency working document and has neither been adopted not endorsed by the Council.
It was also agreed that such assessments be examined by the Article 113 Committee, COREPER and the Council before approval of corresponding negotiating directives.
Furthermore, the Florence European Council, on 21 and 22 June of this year, invited the Council to present the report on the development of the commercial policy and the preferential agreements of the Community to the Dublin European Council in December.
Finally, the Council is not party to the Intergovernmental Conference responsible for amending the treaties.
Thus the Council is not empowered to adopt any position on any possible revision of Articles 113 and 228 of the Treaty, such as suggested in the honourable Member's question.
Well, Mr President, liberalization by all means, but on a sound basis, taking account of all the unquantified external effects, whether favourable or adverse for the economies, and especially the external effects on employment which Ireland has rightly made the first priority of its presidency.
The Florence European Council on 21 and 22 June did invite the Council to present a report on the development of the commercial policy and the preferential agreements of the Community to the Dublin European Council in December.
That will obviously take place under the Irish presidency.
In that context perhaps the institutional arrangements need to be examined.
Question No 7 by John McCartin (H-0548/96) Subject: The EU wool industry Has the presidency any plans in the coming six months to place the serious situation of the home-produced wool industry on the agenda of the Agriculture Council?
I can only stress that at this point the Council has not received any Commission proposal relating to the wool industry sector.
I appreciate not only his efforts in helping to prepare the Intergovernmental Conference but his long-standing interest in European affairs and his long-term efforts to promote the integration and the union of Europe.
I have raised this question because representations have been made to me by an organization at European level that is interested in the wool industry.
May I say in reply to the question posed by the honourable Member that I am very well aware of the difficulties faced by sheep farmers, not just in Ireland, but in Europe generally.
I say that particularly because of the commitment of the Irish presidency to job creation and, hopefully, also to rural development.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
Question No 9 by Brian Crowley (H-0558/96) Subject: Combating drug smuggling Is the Council satisfied that Member States responsible for combating the activities of drug smugglers along the Union's external frontiers, particularly maritime frontiers, are allocating sufficient personnel and equipment to undertake this task, and will the Council consider allocating funding from the EU budget towards assisting those Member States responsible for policing the Union's extensive maritime frontiers to discharge their responsibilities on behalf of the Union?
It is one of the major priorities of the Irish presidency to secure more coordinated and effective action at European level against drug-trafficking and drug abuse.
One of the important tasks which the presidency will undertake in this area is to set in motion a thorough review of the adequacy of cooperation in protecting the external borders of the European Union against importation of drugs by land, sea and air.
The presidency has already initiated a discussion on the external frontier customs strategy.
It intends to propose a joint action to serve as a legal basis for the allocation of funds from the budget of the European Communities.
These proposals are aimed at achieving a more effective level of cooperation against drug smuggling and will fulfil one of the action points on the list adopted by the Madrid European Council in December 1995 with regard to drugs.
The Council will also give priority to the review of the Naples Convention on mutual assistance between customs administrations and the Customs 2000 strategy programme for the third pillar as well as EU participation in the strategic plan of the world customs organization for implementing an operative measure on the Balkan drug smuggling route.
It will also seek to encourage cooperation between Member State customs authorities and private trade and shipping interests in the fight against drug trafficking.
I thank the President-in-Office for his response.
I also congratulate him on ensuring that this matter is dealt with at the highest level during the presidency.
As I said, the presidency and the Council's concern is with cooperation and the protection of the external frontiers of the European Union.
So coastguard cooperation might be very loose or it could be something more structured.
Any possible evolution in this area will be by way of additional resources and additional assistance.
On my first day in Parliament the good wishes and support of the Irish Members of the European Parliament are particularly welcome and have been a great source of help to me.
The Irish Government intends to propose a joint action to serve as a legal base for the allocation of funds from the budget of the European Communities.
I said earlier in response to another debate in the House on the common foreign and security policy area that I believe that we need to do much more as a region in a coordinated way to tackle this problem.
I certainly hope that with the passing of the Europol Convention we will now see greater cooperation under the third pillar.
We need collectively to do much more than we are in dealing with this problem.
Question No 11 by José Apolinário (H-0561/96) Subject: Job creation measures for young people aged under 25 In view of the unacceptably high unemployment rates in the EU (according to Eurostat, the overall rate was 10.9 % at the end of April 1996), and, in particular, the fact that the unemployment rate for young people aged under 25 (21.5 %) is double that overall rate, with young women being affected the worst, can the Council state what action the current presidency intends to take with a view to creating conditions for boosting the employment of young people?Question No 12 by José Torres Couto (H-0583/96) Subject: Measures to combat unemployment At the Florence summit the EU leaders were unable to agree on the implementation of a strategy of cooperation to combat unemployment at European level.
In view of the fact that unemployment in Europe has reached 20 million and is still rising, can the Council give details of the measures it plans to implement to combat this blot on our society and the timetable envisaged?
Europe has benefited from the evolution of a particular model of society on our continent - an evolution achieved often at the cost of great sacrifice.
The continuation of the European model of society would be strengthened by a successful response to the questions posed by unemployment.
The European Council in Florence last month indicated its conviction that the trans-European networks, the development of small and medium-sized industries and scientific and technical research can make a vital contribution to job creation and competitiveness.
These proposals represent an integrated approach designed to make the best possible use of existing resources in order to achieve tangible results in terms of employment, while also finding new sources of funding.
The comments and the good wishes offered to him are well-merited because, in my experience, no one has done more to ensure a quicker, effective presidency than Ireland's Minister for European Affairs.
In five months time or so, when the Irish Prime Minister comes to this Parliament to report on Ireland's presidency, he will be judged on one aspect in particular and that will have to do with the effectiveness of the measures taken during the presidency to deal with the unemployment situation.
The Irish presidency will progress as far as possible the measures adopted by President Santer in support of job creation in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council.
In addition, a central task of the presidency will be to prepare the second annual report on employment for the Dublin Council in December.
In this process particular emphasis will be placed on groups requiring special attention, such as young people seeking their first job, the long-term unemployed and unemployed women.
I make no apology to anybody for the second principle which I think has to be present and that is the principle of social justice.
I would commend to the House an examination of the Irish Government's programme on local development which is an effort to redistribute some of the wealth in such a way that it helps the poorest urban and rural communities.
At the meeting on 8 July, finance ministers agreed to the setting up of a high-level group, as the Members of the House will be aware, to examine this issue.
Mr President, thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your kind words.
The first one is of a general kind: employment is undoubtedly one of the great challenges for the European Union and it would be by working on the employment aspect that the Irish presidency would attain - or not - its objective.
In the case of young people aged under 25 years I should like to point out that Eurostat data show that the unemployment rate for that category is double the overall rate - April statistics showed 21, 5 % unemployment for young people aged under 25 compared with 10, 9 % for overall unemployment - which means we must step up our effort in initiatives for local development and support to small and medium-sized undertakings in connection with questions relating to the environment, social welfare and social benefits, as well enabling special action to be taken to create jobs for young people.
What I said in reply to the question was that the expenditure commitment ceiling in Heading 3, internal policies, will be raised by ECU 1 billion over the period 1997-1999 and will be mainly intended for priority transport infrastructure networks.
I also said that this raising of the ceiling would be accompanied by a further effort to redeploy the available appropriations within Heading 3 to help the sectors concerned, allowing an increase in the total available funds of ECU 1.2 billion.
Can I say in general terms, that we are all very concerned about employment, but the reality is that we do not do what we should do.
Mr President, the question is very simple.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am extremely satisfied with the head-on way in which you tackled this subject and I hope you will forgive me if I am slightly acrimonious in respect of the supplementary question which I am putting - but I have been here for some years now and when these questions are put to the Council about employment it seems to me that they are beginning to become an exercise in sadomasochism because these questions were first put by me and other colleagues when unemployment in Europe was reaching a level of 11 to 12 million.
I think that these are the fundamental questions and there is another one: a few years ago, when Jacques Delors presented here the White Paper on Competitiveness and Employment, he said that there are no national solutions for the problem of fighting unemployment.
I think that this is what divides us and this is what could lead to yet another failure in the case of the Irish presidency, in relation to the urgent fight against the problem of unemployment.
I have been very clear on what I have said.
I have spoken about employment and entrepreneurship and social justice.
I am sure there are similar programmes in other countries, but the OECD report on local development in Ireland is one which I would commend to Members of this House.
Furthermore, the local development programme in Ireland is a partnership, first of all between the European Union and the state, and secondly between the state and the social partners: business, trade unions and the rural area's farmers.
Far from not wanting new ways at European or Member Statelevel of approaching this problem, I am one of the most ardent supporters of new approaches and I am the Minister responsible - as it happens, at the Prime Minister's office - for local development in my own country.
I would welcome some opportunity to discuss this matter of local development and the contribution it can make, not just to employment creation, but also to tackling social injustice throughout the European Union more generally.
The statement of defence in question was brought into the public domain by the Journalisten newspaper via the Internet.
In reply to the first part of the question, I would refer the honourable Member to the judgment of the Court of Justice on 30 April 1996 in Case No C-58/94, Netherlands v.
The Court of Justice gave a ruling on 13 January 1995, in Case C-264/94P, that European Council declarations are not acts whose legality can be governed by Article 133 of the EC Treaty.
I may add that the presidency welcomes any moves towards a greater openness and transparency of the Council.
Nonetheless, as the Council is a negotiating forum and issues of considerable national sensitivity are often discussed, the Council must be sensitive to the concerns of Member States on particular issues.
Any moves towards greater openness and transparency in legislative bodies are to be welcomed, including in the context of the European Union.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, given that the Council's obligation of transparency differs according to whether it is acting as legislator or as executive, could the Council confirm that when a document is submitted it is without any real political value and can therefore be published, something that did not take place when the first request was made?
My second question is whether or not the European Union must take into account all of the constitutional traditions of all Member States, on the basis of mutual respect - given that in Sweden there is a greater tradition of transparency - and that when a given Member State receives a document affecting another Member State it should observe a code of ethics, especially if that document is then disseminated over Internet ?
As they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: Question No 14 by Alex Smith (H-0566/96) Subject: Human rights abuses in Turkey Given the continuing violation of human rights in Turkey, what action does the Council envisage taking vis-à-vis the Turkish authorities?
Question No 15 by Vassilis Ephremidis (H-0569/96) Subject: Violation of civil rights in Turkey The Turkish authorities have committed another flagrant violation of human rights in attempting to ban a new political party, the Turkish Workers' Party, and brutally suppressing a peaceful demonstration of Turkish citizens against such methods on 24 June 1996.
The violent assault by police on the demonstrators resulted in 200 injured and 250 arrests, even including some of the injured who had been taken to hospital.
The Council has repeatedly made it clear to the Turkish Government, and will keep on doing so, that observance of a state of law and basic liberties, to which all citizens of Turkey are entitled, underlie closer relations between Turkey and the European Union.
The Council continues to monitor carefully the situation of human rights and democratic development in Turkey.
The Union has made a judgment in relation to the customs union for example which this House has ratified and endorsed.
By bringing Turkey into the Western way of thinking in relation to issues such as human rights, we can best influence them.
Sadly, however, the answer that he has given me on this matter obliges me to express pity for him, because all he has done is repeat the fairy tales that we have been fed for the last 15 years.
I wish to assure him that the aim of the European Union is to encourage progress in the process of democratization and the protection of human rights in Turkey.
While I was speaking I said that the Tánaiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs is in Dublin this evening meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister.
The House can be assured that on every occasion that meetings of this type take place, these issues are raised.
Question No 16 by Kirsten Jensen (H-0572/96) Subject: The situation in Burma This week Danish consul James Leander Nicols died in a prison in Burma.
On 5 July 1996 an EU declaration was issued which expressed deep concern at the continuing deterioration of the political situation in Myanmar, Burma.
Furthermore, the issue of coordinated EU action is being discussed at an extraordinary meeting of the CFSP Asia-Oceania Working Group in Brussels today in the light of discussions by Ministers at the General Affairs Council on 15 and 16 July earlier this week.
I remind the honourable Member that what I said is that the Asia-Oceania Working Group is examining the issue in the light of discussions held by the ministers at the General Affairs Council earlier this week.
In April 1994 the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a regulation to ban such fishing gear.
The Council has considered that proposal on a number of occasions in the light of the opinion delivered by the European Parliament in July 1994, without coming to any decision on the matter.
The subject was last discussed at the Fisheries Council meeting on 22 April 1996 when the Commission did indeed say that it wanted to see progress made and would be prepared to welcome any constructive ideas put to it by delegations in order to arrive at a qualified majority on its proposal.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, could you tell us whether the Spanish Government, if it wanted to, could present a new proposal taking into account the new situation in Italy and taking account of the possibility of differentiating the Baltic Sea and changing the current situation?
In other words, given that if the Spanish Government has that power and does not use it this is something to be condemned, can the Council state whether the Spanish Government could present a new proposal?
Question No 18 by Susan Waddington (H-0585/96) Subject: Irish presidency - social exclusion The Irish presidency has put social exclusion at the top of its agenda.
Therefore, policies, both structural and programme activities, which target long-term unemployment, have a direct impact on social exclusion.
As I said earlier, in my own country we have put in place exciting new structures to counteract social exclusion in two ways.
The Irish presidency is supportive of developing in the IGC a more secure basis for tackling social exclusion.
The Florence European Council for its part has noted in its conclusions the possibility of focusing structural policies increasingly on job creation.
As regards the suggestion made in the honourable Member's question, these matters rest within the sole competence of the Commission because they relate exclusively to the internal organization of the services of that institution.
Regarding the whole question of social exclusion and long-term unemployment, these are very much at the heart of the Employment Pact proposals developed by President Santer and the Irish presidency is committed to developing the pact process.
In that sense we are according the highest priority to these topics.
In addition, with the support of the Commission, we are organizing a presidency conference on local development initiatives in Dublin in November during our presidency.
In addition, the Commission is organizing a conference on rural development in Cork during our presidency.
So far as the presidency is in a position to advance tackling the issue which she has raised, I hope she will take from the reply and from our own experience that this is something we would like to advance as far as we can during our presidency.
The second question concerns the part played in these consultations by genuine discussion of the macroeconomic policy options and by the presentation of a new policy mix for discussion, as requested by the European Parliament, a policy mix going beyond the tautological old argument that a sound economic policy will eventually lead to a sound employment policy.
I hope it is something that will be addressed in the context of the second annual report on employment which will come before the European Council in Dublin.
The issue of social exclusion is a matter to which the presidency attaches a high priority.
One of the issues which the honourable Member raises is the question of the Essen strategy which included, incidentally, a report on local initiatives and the contribution they can make.
At an informal Council of Social Affairs Ministers on 10-12 July in Dublin the general issue of social protection and long-term unemployment was discussed with particular reference to making social protection systems more effective in helping the most disadvantaged members of society to gain access to employment.
In addition, the legal basis for Community action to combat social exclusion is a matter for the Intergovernmental Conference.
It would therefore be premature to draw any conclusions on the outcomes of the deliberations of the Conference.
As the time allowed for Question Time has been used up, Questions Nos 19 to 28 will be answered in writing.
I understand that there is an undertaking that the Council will reply to MEPs' questions within six weeks, but quite often replies come two, three or even four months late.
We cannot close our eyes to the fact that very often the family, in the traditional sense of the word, no longer exists.
Furthermore, I should like to point out that the existing conventions have not yet been ratified by all Member States and incorporated into their own legislation.
In my opinion, however, European citizenship can exist only within a common legal area, as this resolution shows.
I believe that this legal area must be guaranteed if we are to achieve at least three objectives: first and foremost, to ensure that international conventions, such as the Hague and Luxembourg Conventions, signed by Member States are applied in a uniform manner, since there are still procedural differences that the courts are not always able to assess appropriately.
The second objective is that this legal area should also constitute a Community legal instrument - the draft agreement that we have discussed here today, which the President of Council mentioned before - that makes these proceedings both easier and more secure.
The third objective is to guarantee the possibility of avoiding all uncertainty and ensuring a degree of consistency between the conventions themselves, the Hague Convention and the one we are about to sign.
Application of the 1989 Council of Europe Convention on Minors and of the UN Convention on Children is frequently discussed at meetings and conferences and receives regular media attention.
As promised by the Italian presidency, the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 4 June studied Member States' positions on a proposal for a common position on the Hague Convention and the protection of children.
The European Union must be able to look to the future and assume a small but important exemplary role.
Our own Irish colleague, Mary Banotti, as a European conciliator, is snowed under with all the desperate problems she has to deal with in such cases.
For this reason too the Liberal Group believes that Europol must be empowered to keep a register of children who have disappeared and been abducted.
Lastly, we want a clause on cooperation in abduction cases to be included in agreements between the European Union and third countries.
The fate of a large number of children depends upon those good intentions - children who are the victims of separations between parents of different nationalities.
These failed relationships give rise to bitter conflicts which, in turn, sometimes result in real tragedies, such as these abductions we have been discussing.
Mr President, as is highlighted in the resolution on the protection of children, child abuse - from maltreatment to the abduction of, and even trade in, children - is often associated with poverty and social marginalization.
In Italy, for example, there are 1 200 000 poor children, that is, one child in six is living in absolute poverty, in families that are often families only in name.
It is, therefore, vital that the Commission and Council should, in collaboration with individual Member States, promote a set of measures to combat poverty and, of course, to combat unemployment.
And finally, we need to encourage the forces of law and order in the various Member States to work out a joint plan for collaboration to contain, at international level, the problem of child abduction and, as I said before, the trade in babies and children in general.
Many MEPs have raised cases from their constituencies and those cases are increasing.
We need to ensure that custody orders in the court of one Member State are not defied by the illegal abduction of children to the jurisdiction of another country, sometimes even another Member State.
Putting it bluntly, why should, for instance, British courts cooperate in the removal of transnationally abducted children from their Britishbased parent, if the court of another Member State contravenes the spirit - and sometimes the words - of the Hague Convention and the Luxembourg Convention and refuses to do the same when a child is abducted to its jurisdiction; or, as we see quite often, when the police and authorities do not seriously seek out the kidnapped children and their abductors.
Violence against children takes many forms.
It is a shocking indictment of our society.
Appropriately, today I call on the President-in-Office to indicate what he plans at EU level concerning not only the issue of child abduction but the protection of children against all forms of violence, including the sexual exploitation of children, child abuse and the misuse of technologies, such as the Internet, by paedophiles who have furthered their own discreditable actions through the new technologies.
Finally, I take this opportunity to welcome my constituency colleague, Gay Mitchell, to the presidency of the Council and I wish him every success in the coming six months.
I think that this problem, which is covered by the Brussels Convention, is one way which could help in fact to give a new legal framework to safeguard the essential rights of children to prevent situations of this kind from continuing to develop, with all the tragic consequences for children's upbringing - as they suffer irreparable damage in these situations.
It is obvious that we need a new legal framework and I also think that, in debates of this kind, we should not be prisoners of legal solutions because these problems also call for a fresh approach to economic and social questions on a European scale.
From my experience, the main problems stem from a lack of uniformity of laws under the two existing international conventions in this area, together with a lack of cooperation at intergovernmental level.
On this latter point, I note that Belgium is the only Member State still to ratify the Hague Convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of child abduction and I would urge it to do so immediately.
As it happens, we have a woman Minister for Justice in Ireland who is President-in-Office of the Justice and Home Affairs Council and would be particularly sensitive to the issues which have been raised here.
It would fall to her to ensure that the response of the presidency and the Irish Government will be made to the relevant European Parliament committee.
The debate today has been a very useful and helpful one and it will inform the presidency in our approach to pursuing this issue in the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, I would just like to say for clarification that I wanted Council to set a timetable.
I have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
This will take place in a committee known as the Customs Union Joint Committee, which was set up by Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council, on the implementation of the final phase of the Customs Union.
I would remind you that in all aspects of the Customs Union the European Parliament's controlling and advisory function should be guaranteed.
Both amendments have also been approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and included in Mr Kittelmann's report.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I can say that the report on the Community's position in the Customs Union Joint Committee presents no special difficulties and can be supported provided the amendments are adopted.
However, I wish to take this opportunity to emphasize that adoption of the customs union with Turkey by the European Union has been made subject to a number of political conditions relating to respect for human rights, the democratic process, the rule of law and international law and for the maintenance of good neighbourly relations and the territorial integrity of the Member States.
In other words, if that country wishes to benefit from cooperation with Europe, it must operate within the framework of the international legal order and not outside it.
In that regard, Mr President, I think that it would be advisable for the Council and Commission to keep us informed about the progress of implementation of the customs union with Turkey, particularly now when the government of the new prime minister of Turkey has expressed reservations about the customs union, whereas previously it supported a renegotiation of the agreement.
Mr President, Mr Kittelmann, I know that this is really more of a technical report, but nevertheless we must also look at the political background, as the previous speaker has already said.
Mrs Çiller, who was then the Turkish Prime Minister, appealed to us to support her in keeping the fundamentalists out of power.
If things go on like this, I shall no longer need to worry about what basis the Joint Committee should work on, but I have to ask myself whether the money that the EU is making available might not be better invested in other countries.
There must be no preferential treatment for a state which does not even respect the most elementary fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of opinion, and which is waging a dirty war against a section of its population, namely the Kurds.
Mr President, the Kittelmann report touches on legal and institutional questions.
I personally, and the whole of my group, were opposed to that ratification for four reasons: the non-recognition of the Armenian genocide by the Turkish government at the time, the Cyprus situation, the human rights situation and, fourthly, the fact that Turkey, however hard it might try, could not become part of the European Union, whereas customs union was apparently perceived by many of its sponsors as a first step towards accession as such.
However, I did not, at the time, agree to the customs union with Turkey, and I feel that subsequent developments have more than vindicated my decision.
Let us just remember, it was made emphatically clear to us at the time that the conclusion of the customs union would be a crucial argument in preventing large sections of the Turkish electorate from giving the fundamentalists the majority in that country.
I therefore believe that, in addition to the technical adjustment that the present decision is concerned with, we should ask ourselves what the customs union with Turkey has actually achieved, in economic terms, in the last ten months.
I believe that in setting up this customs union we have failed to grasp the problem of increasing unemployment in Turkey.
The technical adjustment that we are dealing with today must therefore be examined from this angle, and we shall have to see whether this amendment, this technical adjustment, and the continued operation of this customs union with Turkey, will really ensure prosperity and freedom in that country.
This report on customs union gives me my only opportunity to say this.
We voted in favour of Turkey's entry into the customs union because we thought, and because the democrats were asking us to do so, that it would possibly be, or could be, a barrage against the Islamic extremists.
But, in the meantime, I am going to abstain from voting on this report because I believe I was wrong.
Mr President, the resolution before us relates to the technical realization of the customs union which has been concluded with Turkey.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to support this proposal while at the same time putting forward two amendments, one of which relates to Parliament's right to be informed of the decisions of the Joint Committee.
Although the decision at issue here relates only to the technical aspects of the customs union, it is appropriate in this connection to state our well-founded concern at the human rights situation in Turkey.
However, in the debate on the situation in Turkey it needs to be stated plainly that the outside world must respect every country's election results and a religious trend must not in itself be a ground for disapproval.
The Joint Committee can make its recommendations to the Association Council, which makes the necessary decisions while observing the procedures in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The powers of the Joint Committee fall within the scope of Article 113.
Therefore, in confirming the common position of the customs union in the Joint Committee, the Council does so by qualified majority.
In its second amendment, Parliament asks to be given information on the decisions of the Joint Committee.
When the Commission sends the Council a proposal for a common position, this is also sent to the European Parliament for information.
The debate is closed.
I shall begin by saying that the draft supplementary and amending budget which we are dealing with here has three main institutions in mind: the European Parliament, the Council and the Ombudsman.
As far as the European Parliament is concerned, I should like to remind you that we dealt with this subject quite thoroughly at the last part-session in May and, therefore, I shall not repeat what was said then about the fundamental reasons for this amending budget in terms of the European Parliament, which as you know accounts for about 30 million ECU.
I should like in particular to emphasise the fact that with these 30 million ECU we should be able to meet important needs and this refers to the D-3 building in Brussels and the IPE-4 building here in Strasbourg.
I think that it is right to reiterate the correctness of the decision which we took in the previous year when drafting the 1996 budget, in other words giving ourselves sufficient room for manoeuvre in this area which now allows us to give an effective response to the needs which we are facing.
I should like also to emphasise that, in my opinion, it is very important given the amounts involved in this respect that we should continue to look at this matter very closely and give it proper surveillance.
In this case we are creating three temporary jobs, an A-7, a B-5 and a C-5.
I think that it is very important to emphasise a decision which we in the European Parliament took previously to call upon the President of the European Parliament to open negotiations with the Council and the Commission in order to draft a joint declaration setting the guidelines for the number of temporary staff working for the Ombudsman as well as the quality, i.e.
This is a budget involving 24 million ECU which has many different purposes and I should only like to draw attention to some aspects which we have set out in the explanatory memorandum of our report.
I do not want to go any further on this matter because, as I said, I do not want to violate the rules which we set for assessing the Council's budget but, in any case, I think that the Council should pay attention to some of the aspects on which we have focused in the explanatory memorandum of our report.
I shall conclude by asking for the support of our colleagues for approval of this draft supplementary and amending budget in respect of the other institutions.
I want to talk to the general budget rather than Parliament's budget.
The third aspect of this particular budget is that it could be called the Member States jackpot budget because the Member States really have landed lucky.
When we look at the carry-overs from 1995, we have something like ECU 9.2 billion of unused resources in 1995, now being carried over into 1996, which means that when Member States have to pay their own resources there will be ECU 9.2 billion less that they have to pay for this year's budget.
However, that is still more than 10 % of the present year's budget.
If we had not had BSE and a number of corrections in individual categories, for example those that were made necessary by enlargement or by the newly created Ombudsman's Office, then the figure would have been far more than 10 %.
And this is particularly true in Categories 3 and 4.
Our group will be approving the supplementary and amending budget, and it emphasizes that in so doing it is also expressing its solidarity with those affected by BSE and its consequences.
One of the main points of interest to our group is also the supervision and control of expenditure on projects under the MEDA, PHARE and TACIS programmes.
However, the Commission should know that we would not fall in with its proposals if it were to use the room to manoeuvre, provided by us, in order to re-introduce mini-budgets.
Our group will be approving this supplementary and amending budget.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that our group intends to vote in favour of this amending budget.
Everyone here knows how much interest our group has attached, since the Cannes Summit, to the settlement of the MEDA program, and that is why we are satisfied that the rapporteur responsible for Section III, our colleague James Elles, is proposing to accept the Commission's proposals by taking up once again the changes to the comments on the ÉLISE, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA lines.
I should add that, as far as this latter program is concerned, we are also very glad that an agreement was reached in Brussels on Monday which will allow this programme to be unfrozen in the next few weeks or months, which we regard as a very significant matter for the future of Europe and the Mediterranean.
The only argument that I have heard is this: the European Union cannot support a UN institution.
At the top of the list is the UNHCR, 70 % of whose budget is financed from Echo, at any rate insofar as it concerns the former Yugoslavia.
Mr President, at the time of the vote on the original budget for 1996, my group could only protest against a draft budget that was irresponsible because it was constantly increasing.
First, the use of this supplementary and amending budget to distribute, in the first instance, an additional ECU 31 million, adopted by Parliament, to reduce the extent of property investment.
A second example: the report envisages, as we previously complained at the time of the discussion of Parliament's draft estimate, giving the Ombudsman - yet another supplementary institution created by the Maastricht Treaty - three additional jobs, although negotiations on this matter with the Council and the Commission have barely begun.
Finally, my third and last example illustrates the principle - endorsed by this House - of a continuous and continuing increase in the Community budget at a time when the governments of all our countries are struggling to reduce public spending.
So I shall leave it to other Members of my group to say what they think about this second report.
Furthermore, by introducing into the budget the possibility of 'made-to-measure' funding based on the interests of the various Member States, it represents a dangerous challenge to the principle of solidarity of the Union.
And this applies to all the other Member States as well.
Secondly, I should point out that the rapporteur is very anxious to expressly draw attention to the fact that, following the Council's decision on the MEDA, TACIS and PHARE programmes, to delete the expanded comments which were intended to make it possible to evaluate the projects being carried out in these countries, we disapproved of this deletion of the comments and therefore the rapporteur has proposed that they be reinstated.
We have therefore thrown the ball back to the Commission, by drafting two budget lines, one for the 14 Member States with a p.m.
We therefore expect that this will be taken into consideration for the 15 Member States in the corresponding column.
Mrs Müller, I should like to say to you quite clearly, that we are now standing, in fact, at a critical point in the development of the Community's spending policy.
And it is just resorting to cheap polemics to try to give the impression that the great Group of Socialists in this House is of the opinion that we should not support the proceedings before the Hague Tribunal.
The Hague Tribunal is an organ of intergovernmental cooperation.
Since we, as the elected representatives of these Member States, know all about the budgetary problems that all our governments are having to cope with - amongst other things in order to meet the much-quoted Maastricht criteria - I welcome this enormous sum which we are in fact making available to our countries.
By so doing we are also clearly demonstrating the fact that there is no such thing as a Brussels operating quite separately, but that we can, and will, bring about the construction of Europe only on the basis of our Member States and only with those States.
I should also like to emphasize the fact that we, the European Parliament, are trying to bring this about as quickly as possible, inasmuch as we have made it clear that we do not need a second reading in order to adopt this supplementary budget.
I hope that the Council, as the representative of our Member States, will give a correspondingly positive response to this signal.
When I read, for example, that over 15 % of Categories 3 and 4 was not spent last year, then I ask myself whether the Commission is unwilling to carry out the wishes of the budgetary authority, or incapable of doing so.
I hope that on this point the Commission will be able to give us a satisfactory explanation during the current consultations on the forthcoming 1997 budget.
Mr President, I will be brief and just give a few elements of the supplementary and amending budget for 1996.
First, this supplementary and amending budget for 1996 will finally implement a new own-resource decision which goes back to the Edinburgh European Council in December 1992.
But the slow ratification process also shows that it becomes more and more difficult to convince national parliaments of the additional financial needs of the Community.
Finally, the additional budgetary commitments for PHARE, TACIS and MEDA will improve transparency and permit improvement in the quality of execution of these programmes as well as their control.
The Commission will also support the budgetary authority in its review of ECHO operations in order to assess the effectiveness of the existing monitoring procedures as requested in your resolution.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this ad hoc procedure is provided for in the 1993 interinstitutional agreement.
The rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets deemed it proper to initiate this procedure because it is important to make amendments to a number of points in the Commission's preliminary draft budget, notably regarding category 1.
The procedure we have initiated this year actually has three new features.
For the first time I can tell you that the Committee on Budgets and the Agriculture Committee managed to agree on a common line vis à vis Council and Commission.
The third new feature is an attempt to persuade the Council to engage in meaningful dialogue.
The Council's absence here today shows that in this respect it is all still to do.
The object of the exercise was to secure significantly more transparency and democracy in opinions of the ad hoc procedure as an instrument for the scrutiny of budget spending on agriculture.
In the first on 16 April this year the institutions undertook to enter more realistic sums than they had done hitherto.
In the second trialogue of 9 July we submitted proposals jointly agreed, as I say, with the Agriculture Committee and these culminated in the motion for a resolution now before you.
Specifically as a result of this, in the current ad hoc procedure, we propose that a sum of 556 million units of account be placed in the reserve.
It is the first time in the history of the European Community that a reserve is proposed on behalf of the European Parliament by the two committees together.
I refer you to the underspending which occurred in June of this year, namely a sum of 1.4 billion out of the total earmarked for spending on agriculture.
Mr President, I refer to paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution of the Brinkhorst report.
While the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development certainly considers it necessary to review some of the Commission's forecasts, we will comment on the draft budget after 25 July, when it is published.
The Committee on Agriculture has not discussed the actual draft budget and, therefore, cannot concur with the figures in Annex II.
Any surplus money in a reserve should be reallocated to aspects of rural economy by Members of the European Parliament.
The Council of Ministers may well have thought that this issue was dead and buried last December when the Court of Justice made its ruling.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament, at the initiative of its general rapporteur, has thus instituted the ad hoc procedure, on which we are now being asked to pronounce, since we indicated our disagreement with the Council on the preliminary draft budget for 1997.
The main argument put forward by the rapporteur, our colleague Laurens Brinkhorst, is based on the substantial volume of unused appropriations in the compulsory expenditure sector which lead him, through the device of a global appropriation reserve intended exclusively for agriculture, to foresee even today that the price situation in 1997 could be as favourable as in 1995 and that, consequently, the possibility exists of accepting immediately that, since some of the appropriations are of no use, these could be transferred to a special, single reserve from which funds could be drawn in due course.
As far as our group is concerned, we have no intention of accepting the idea that this reserve is possible on the grounds that part of the EAGGF guarantee would not be compulsory.
We are therefore firmly opposed to the setting-up of a general reserve, the legal bases of which seem to us to be highly dubious.
I would now like to consider the question of the 1997 budget perspectives as a whole, because I believe this is the crux of the debate.
Next year is a crucial year for all the fifteen nations that constitute the European Union.
In conclusion, let me make one final observation.
The Edinburgh decision of December 1992 gave our Parliament a power of codecision which is valuable in principle though difficult to implement.
I would like to caution the general rapporteur about his responsibility in the conduct of affairs during this year.
Our group, naturally, as you will have realized, is going to reject his report.
As we see it, the common agricultural policy is one of those foundations.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I am extremely critical of this report.
I should also like to emphasise straight away that if the vote which was taken in the committee is repeated in the Plenary and if the vote which we held in the Plenary is repeated in the vote on the 1997 budget there is no way that we shall have a budget.
What is at stake is a matter of far greater importance, ranging from enlargement to the question of EMU, from structural funds to economic and social cohesion - that is what is at stake in this report and it is necessary for us to deal with this question clearly.
I cannot accept that the substantial question of this report is in the appendix and put as a mere indicative question.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no one should be under any illusion about the rapporteur's intentions: not the Commission, unless it is involved in a conspiracy or, better still, on the lookout for a few budget economies that can be paid for by the Member States, but since it says so, we shall draw the obvious conclusion; not the Council which, in its great wisdom, will reject the rapporteur's arguments; and not Parliament, the honourable elected defender of the European Union's agriculture interests, great though the temptation may be to transfer a few compulsory agricultural appropriations to other sectors that are more politically productive and so prepare the actors of the future, quite legally, for their integration.
Taking as his starting point a fact which is nothing particularly unusual in the context of agricultural production and prices, the rapporteur demonstrates that regular overestimates of the order of 10 % take place at the end of each financial year, and that it is therefore not desirable to retain such a large safety margin for the purposes of administration.
And hence, too, the creation of a general reserve, the obvious sign of a first step towards a transition to the status of non-compulsory expenditure.
Mr President, the Brinkhorst report stubbornly continues along the line adopted by the majority in the Committee on Budgets: proposing economies or the establishment of reserves in areas where the Treaties give Parliament no jurisdiction and, by contrast, proposing additional expenditures in sectors where Parliament does have jurisdiction.
Because agricultural expenditure, where 95 % of the appropriations were used up in 1995, is not the only area in which major economies could be achieved.
If there is a need to seek out and find potential economies, the place to look is among the structural activities, where only 81 % of the appropriations were used; in internal policies, which are generally contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and where only 85 % of appropriations were used; and in external schemes, often delegated without control to NGOs, experts and private firms, where only 82 % of the appropriations were used.
In other words, our Parliament can fulfil its function as a defender of the tax payer, but only by taking action in areas where it has jurisdiction, and not in areas where its jurisdiction is limited by the Treaties.
The judgment of the Court of Justice confirmed that both arms of the budgetary authority must, on this occasion in particular and on the basis of their powers, deliberate and reach agreement on compulsory expenditure.
On the basis of that a reserve of 556 million ECU has been agreed, available for programmes for the development of agricultural markets and support for rural development.
I agree with the rapporteur that the sizeable surpluses there have been in the budget on several occasions suggest that these appropriations need critical scrutiny.
Surpluses are now being given back to the Member States, but the Brinkhorst report wants all appropriations for the reserve spent under heading I.
Last year the Court ruled against the European Parliament on the matter of compulsory and noncompulsory expenditure.
In the case of a general reduction, however, such as the one being considered by the Council, this is no longer possible.
The arguments are different, but the objective is the same.
If he does, all the world's traders would be glad to know.
Mr President, the Commission welcomes the serious and far-reaching discussions between both branches of the budget authority in the framework of the ad hoc procedure for the 1997 budget.
In its third year of application this procedure is more and more living up to the expectations with which it was created in the interinstitutional agreement of 1993.
The Brinkhorst report shows that Parliament is prepared for substantial and constructive discussion.
In particular, the idea to create a reserve in category 1 - be it specific or general - corresponds to the budgetary necessities linked to the BSE crisis and the uncertainties it creates.
In fact, the preliminary draft budget already provides for a reserve.
On the other hand, the key task for the 1997 budget is to agree on the amounts.
The creation of new lines, as suggested in the report, may distract from this objective as it is unlikely to be acceptable to the Council.
As far as the Council is concerned, we know that in this budget procedure it is determined to achieve a maximum of savings in the Community budget, given the requirements of Economic and Monetary Union.
If it is decided to leave a margin under the agricultural guidelines, we have to ensure that the budgetary authority, in case of unforeseen developments, is prepared to mobilize additional funds without delay by means of a supplementary and amending budget.
I wish to conclude by reconfirming that the Commission will make available any kind of technical support required for your rapporteur to bring the ad hoc procedure to a successful conclusion for the 1997 budget.
The debate is closed.
Guarantee to EIB for loans The next item is the report (A4-0205/96) by Mr Tomlinson, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a Council Decision granting a Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans for projects of mutual interest in Latin American and Asian countries with which the Community has concluded cooperation agreements (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, El Salvador, Uruguay and Venezuela; Bangladesh, Brunei, China, India, Indonesia, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam) (COM(95)0742 - C4-0100/96-96/0015(CNS)).
Mr President, as you said this report concerns a communication from the Commission and a proposal for a Council decision on the renewal of the Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans for projects of mutual interest in Latin America and Asian countries.
The current lending programme which was agreed on 15 February 1993 amounted to a maximum of ECU 250m and had a duration of three years and expired in February 1996.
The projects have been successful and it is against that background that we have today the report on the proposal for a renewed loan and a new guarantee arrangement.
But the loans signed through the Guarantee Fund will grant a guarantee in respect of 100 % of all loans signed but they will remain within a ceiling of ECU 410m over an indicative period of one year, the one year presumed to be beginning from February 1996, the point at which the previous arrangements expired.
Concerning the amount of ECU 410m, the Committee on Budgets generally welcomes this increase in the loan activities in the Asian and Latin American countries, particularly against the background that I have already described where the demand for loans has already exceeded the available funds and major cooperation agreements have been concluded.
However, the present position is that there is the major problem about the suggestion in Article 1 of the proposal that the loans granted by the Bank, if they have not attained the overall amount referred to in the one-year period, could automatically be extended by six months.
So, although it expresses a worthy sentiment, the recommendation of the rapporteur will be to oppose Amendment No 6.
Mr President, we support Mr Tomlinson's report.
He also indicates, in points 12 and 13, that in November 1995 the Council had already asked the EIB - and also the Commission - to set up a study regarding a new guarantee system, and in doing so to take into account considerations concerning the sharing of risks between the banks and the guarantee fund.
Therefore I should like to say, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, that we think that there are two measures worth considering.
Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur on his report and his presentation this evening.
But my Group believes that the Union has to play a far more visible role in projects.
This will give people in these countries a clearer understanding of the Union's role in carrying out investment projects.
The Commission and the European Investment Bank must devise a method for achieving this.
The report deals with an extension of loans which were originally for the period 1993 to 1996.
The sum for this three-year period was set at 250 million ECU per year.
A last point is that the Commission has decided to place all loans to third countries on the same footing as of the beginning of 1997.
But the Commission is now proposing to extend its loans to Latin America and Asia by another six months if the 410 million ECU have not been allocated in full.
But I think the Commission is very late with all these proposals; it puts us in a difficult position and has briefed us too little and too late.
That mandate, as you know, allowed for a review at the end of the period, in other words at the end of February 1996, of the annual ceiling of ECU 250 million which is guaranteed by the Community budget.
In its proposal, presented on 12 January this year, nearly six months ago in other words, the Commission suggests to the Council that the total EIB loans to these regions should be increased to ECU 410 million for an initial period of one year.
I would like to make two brief comments.
The first relates to the ceiling on the loans.
The ceiling of ECU 410 million, proposed for a period of one year, is admittedly a substantial increase over the previous mandate of ECU 250 million over three years.
The initial period of a year proposed last January by the Commission is exceptional.
As far as the Commission was concerned, it was necessary to gear the renewal of this mandate to the multi-annual budgets for EIB loans to other third countries, such as the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, and the Mediterranean States.
Well, this renewal, for these two categories of country, will take place towards the end of this year.
I would like to conclude by emphasising that the Commission has no problem at all in accepting Amendments Nos 1 and 4 of your report.
Amendments Nos 2 and 5 cause no problem in principle, but no longer seem to me to be of any essential value.
On the other hand, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 3, relating to the clause to extend this mandate by six months, quite simply because such a clause traditionally exists in the EIB's other mandates, and because the EIB considers this clause necessary to ensure, in particular the flexibility which is essential to the commitment of the loan programmes.
Mr President, we do not want to become difficult about Amendment No 3, but I merely ask the Commissioner to reflect upon it before we come to the vote tomorrow.
I hope that he might reflect on that because Parliament will persist in its vote on Amendment No 3 tomorrow.
We shall therefore act so as to ensure that there will be consistency between the three regions concerned by the loan programmes.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, my report is about counting sheep.
There are about 0.7 million producers in the Union and the cost of the regime is about ECU 1.8 billion, which comes to about ECU 200 per month, per individual producer.
If sheep are used to produce milk, as well as meat, then only 80 % of the premium is paid.
The premium works out at between ECU 17 and 25 per annum.
Given the level of profitability in the business, we can say that without this system of aid the entire production would cease.
The Commission estimates that between 80 and 90 % of sheep and goat farmers' profit comes through the premium, which means that without this premium there would not be anything left.
The system can never be made perfect without the assistance of some electronic device which makes it possible in difficult conditions and difficult terrain, to count the sheep and to record them accurately.
In fact, the numbers have started to reduce and have already gone back 6 % in recent years, which bears out what I say, that it is not a very profitable business; it is not very lucrative.
When we remember that the hill areas are getting an extra subsidy - they already have 80 % or more of the entire production - the element that is left for the lowlands is very small.
In social and environmental terms we get good value out of this policy.
I commend the report to the House.
Secondly, there is a problem with the definition of less-favoured area.
Therefore there was a problem in counting the size of flocks in other Member States to work out the payments.
That seems incredible in terms of the subsidy we offer under the common agricultural policy.
In terms of the amendments, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled two amendments which are designed to weaken the report.
In its report, published in the Official Journal last October, the Court of Auditors expressed concern about several matters: the increase in expenditure in the sector, the relevance of using base prices to calculate premiums, and the extent of the less-favoured areas.
In the same Official Journal, the Commission replied to these concerns in detail.
In particular, it emphasized that although expenditure had increased, particularly because of the accession of Spain and Portugal to the European union, the introduction of the stabiliser in 1988 and quotas in 1992 had made it easier to monitor that expenditure.
I would like to comment briefly on two points in the motion for a resolution.
The first relates to recital f), which states, and I quote: ' the mechanism of the common organization of the market has a negative effect on community expenditure in the beef and veal sector' .
The Commission is unaware of any causal relationship to justify this recital.
The volume of production in the sheepmeat sector is only 10 to 15 % of that in the beef and veal sector.
The expenditure in that sector - sheepmeat, in other words - assists producers to continue their production.
A reduction in support could induce producers to switch to the production of beef and veal, a high-level production which, as you know, is largely based on grazing, with all the undesirable budgetary consequences that would involve, especially at this time.
My second observation relates to paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution.
The Commission has no intention of replacing a system which has functioned perfectly well up until now.
A modification of this kind would involve a radical change in the actual philosophy of this organization of markets and the end, as I said just now, of this activity in some regions of the Community.
Despite its importance in the less favoured regions, one-fourth of community sheep production is undertaken in other areas.
This production has long been, and still is, as legitimate an activity as any other in those areas, and thus equally deserving of support.
Incidentally, the Commission has already tightened up its requirements in this respect, amending Regulation 2814/1990 on the arrangements for the application of the definition of lambs fattened to produce heavy carcasses.
The debate is closed.
