Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 28 May 1998.
My father, Sir Francis Chichester, was a great competitor of Mr Tabarly's.
I do not know whether they are right or wrong, but this kind of leak must not be allowed to happen.
It simply suggests that, in future, an MEP's salary should be a percentage of a judge at the Court of Justice's salary but does not mention what that percentage should be; and, thirdly, it states that the percentage should be set by common accord between this Parliament and the Council, so Parliament would not be able to act unilaterally to set its own salary.
The reports and the figures quoted in the Swedish media are entirely inaccurate.
Mr Martin, you have just answered it for me.
Mr President, unlike the previous speakers, I would like to make a point about pages 17 and 18 of the Minutes and the vote on the Arias Cañete report.
Mr Wijsenbeek, it is a matter of Members' freedom, which I am sure you recognize.
Mr President, I wish to draw attention to this magazine called the Parliament magazine which purports to be a record, and to represent the opinions, of this House.
Mr President, I assume that you too will have heard that dioxin levels from the wasteincineration plant in Strasbourg have been as high as 360 nanograms.
Mr President, as you are aware we have a serious problem with Sellafield and British Nuclear Fuels that cannot be ignored.
Secondly, that BNFL and Siemens, the German... (Interruption by the President ) I am sorry, Mr Fitzsimons, there have been quite a lot of resolutions on Sellafield, and I cannot add anything to what this Parliament has already said.
Mr President, thank you for your letter which I received today in reply to my question to you.
Mr President, I would actually like to endorse what was said by a number of my colleagues, as well as by David Martin, about Members' salaries.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you are absolutely right.
The first amendment relates to the fact that, up until now, only individual Members have been able to submit written declarations of not more than 200 words.
The present interpretation was adopted which, in fact, only allows for one initial signature to be on a Rule 48 resolution and for people having to sign it in a special office, which avoids having to walk a line of people demanding that they actually sign up to particular Rule 48 resolutions.
While the Dell'Alba report addresses a minor part of this problem, we will be supporting it save possibly, in my view, Amendment No 3, which means that we will no longer get a running total of how many Members have signed, or the second part of Amendment No 1 which seems to be overly cumbersome and not recognize the procedure which is actually followed in the office - because you do have a record of who has already signed.
It is about allowing Members not only a clearer and more positive way to express their own political points of view on matters of topical and international interest, but also, perhaps more importantly, the chance to put down a motion on behalf of their constituents - those they were elected to represent.
Many reports are complex and lengthy.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in January last year the Council consulted the European Parliament about the proposal for a Council decision on a framework procedure for implementing Article 366a of the Fourth Lomé Convention, as revised in 1995.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation, followed in this by this entire Parliament during the part-session of June 1997, laid down recommendations in the interim report to amend the Commission's text so as to give Parliament the right of assent on each proposal to suspend or resume cooperation.
The situation has not improved because the Treaty of Amsterdam, which will be ratified by the fifteen Member States at the beginning of next year, provides only for information to be given to Parliament subsequently in such matters.
That is why we have an interim report proposal before us, which received unanimous support from the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
To give you a clear idea of this, ladies and gentlemen, even in the case of Nigeria, the full Convention has not been suspended.
Furthermore, it must be realized that the matter will be taken more seriously in the country in which these human rights violations have occurred if the European Parliament focuses attention on it in its capacity as a public forum.
The democracy and human rights clause can be made real by the Commission proposals.
The Union has a powerful instrument in its hands with the human rights clause, and should also wish to use it.
The Council wants to decide on the use of the democracy clause alone.
The Council and Parliament must consult with each other in order to find a solution to this conflict.
The Council has also given the European Parliament a considerable role in the context of the accession partnership, after all.
This Parliament plays an important role in the human rights policy of the Union, and the ACP Joint Assembly is also an important instrument.
On the basis of this, the European Parliament deserves to be given an important role in the entire suspension procedure.
Mr President, I support a strong political dimension for the new cooperation agreements with the ACP countries, especially in the fields of human rights and good government under rule of law.
Firstly, in June 1997 we asked that the European Parliament be able to give its assent to the Council in the case of suspension of the Convention.
Having said that, we agree with the simple consultation procedure proposed by the rapporteur so that Parliament can at least give its opinion a priori .
That is why I would like once again to draw the attention of the Commission and the Council to one of the provisions contained in the Rocard report on the future of cooperation between the Union and the ACP countries.
The list of human rights which are constantly mentioned does not include, for example, the right to food and education, a right which is threatened when cooperation is terminated due to a lack of democratic development.
Mr President, it has never been so important for the European Union to provide itself with a mechanism for suspending cooperation relations when human rights violations take place.
So we do not think Parliament is making a revolutionary request in asking for decisions on this important matter to be adopted by majority.
The Council should not view this proposal with suspicion, because it is not an attempt to attack the current interests of the Member States, but to strengthen the policy and interests of the European Union in accordance with the principles established in the Treaties.
For example, in this very partsession we will be presenting a resolution on Equatorial Guinea, which has just passed 15 death sentences, asking the Commission to think again about resuming cooperation with that country.
If we cannot have that, then at least we should be allowed to comment when some situation like this arises.
For example, there was the horrendous situation in Nigeria when the former president hanged 19 people.
One island, Anjouan, has declared independence and, at the same time, it expects to continue to get aid from the European Union.
I hope that, if we cannot have the assent procedure, the Commission will at least keep us very closely in contact with any situation arising where we may have to suspend a nation, and that the Committee on Development and Cooperation in particular would get any reports that were prepared.
Beyond that, the PPE Group will be delighted to support this report when it comes before the House.
The Commission expressed its opinion when the first interim report was adopted on the desirability of involving Parliament more closely in the implementation of the procedure and it is clear that the current proposal for a Council decision is more explicit in this regard.
It provides for immediately informing Parliament in full on any decision taken in implementing Article 366a.
We do not feel that a process of formally consulting Parliament on the various stages of the procedure is feasible; not because we think Parliament's views are unimportant or insubstantial, but simply because of the specific provisions of the Treaties, in particular Article 300 which in effect sets out a procedure which is envisaged for situations such as this.
I hope that as a result of this debate and what has been said during the course of it, both by Members and by myself, it will be possible to move as quickly as possible into a situation in which Article 366a can be invoked because the necessary procedure for doing so will have been agreed.
The debate is closed.
Although the Council took on board a number of Parliament's amendments, substantive amendments were finally omitted from the Council's common position.
Amendment No 14: this concerns the risk assessment procedure.
The rapporteur's amendments seek to ensure that those requirements are met and that responsible care is exercised by all the practitioners in this field.
We recognize that the Commission will be coming forward soon with a new proposal with regard to comitology and the development of the modus vivendi .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
The directive covers industrial laboratories, after all, and therefore competition in the field of biotechnology.
I hope that this Parliament will also support Article 100a.
The report does not meet with our approval because it deregulates many areas; authorization simply because a time limit has elapsed no longer has anything to do with the precautionary principle.
I am not sure whether in practice the European Parliament amendments will lead to an improved notification procedure.
If we have cooperation or codecision, the appropriate rights must also be guaranteed for the European Parliament in the committees.
The second new piece of information is that the routine methods of chemical inactivation can leave up to 10 % of viruses and other pathogenic agents in an infectious state.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their report and thorough work on the common position adopted by the Council on this matter.
The common position strengthens and clarifies the original Commission proposal designed to deal with this matter.
The Commission was not, however, able to support the common position where it sought to exclude the European Parliament from the procedure to establish and modify Annex II Part B, which affects the scope of the directive, nor Article 21, where the Council would still wish to stick to a 3b regulatory committee procedure instead of the 2a procedure proposed by the Commission following the first opinion of Parliament.
Of the 36 amendments tabled, including supplementary amendments, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 5, 6, 17, 19, 25, 32 and 36, and can partially accept 8, 12, 13 and 14, and accept in principle 2, 18, 20, 21, 28, 33, 34 and 35, which may need some rewording.
With respect to Amendment No 13, the Commission can accept a 2a comitology procedure which gives flexibility to the Council to adopt different measures from those proposed by the Commission instead of the 3b procedure contained in the Commission proposal.
Concerning the requirement in the amendment to present a report on experience with the directive, the Commission considers that the aim of the amendment could be achieved by making available to Parliament the report it is required to produce under Article 18(3).
Amendment No 1 proposes to change the legal base from Article 130s(1) to Article 100a.
The issue of liability insurance and the provision of financial security in Amendments Nos 4 and 9 are under consideration by the Commission which, as has been said, intends to produce a White Paper on environmental liability, and the Commission would prefer to deal with this matter in a horizontal manner to avoid different liability requirements in different directives.
Amendment No 11 is not acceptable because the requirement to utilize the full legislative procedure for modifications to the risk-assessment procedure set out in Annex III would prevent the rapid modification of the annex which is purely technical in nature, and it could be that such a restriction would lead to safety problems, for instance, where, as a result of additional scientific information, a rapid change to the annex would be needed.
Amendments Nos 3, 7, 10, 16, 24 and 31 are not acceptable because they duplicate provisions present in other articles and the technical Amendments Nos 15, 26 and 30 would operate to increase the burden of control measures, seeking to introduce more stringent measures than those of Directive 90/679/EEC, which regulates the protection of workers from risks from exposure to biological agents at work.
Amendments Nos 22, 23, 24 and 27 proposed increased burdens, but we do not think that they make a commensurate contribution to safety.
Amendment No 29 is technically invalid since the genetically modified micro-organisms are not required to be in a closed system.
The debate is closed.
And very nasty things they are, too.
I hope Mr Pimenta did not have the same problem when he took over the report.
But the same cannot be said for the US which has only offered a six-year phase-in period that is subject to some substantial derogations.
Although this text is similar to the text incorporated in the agreement with Canada and Russia, the US commitment on leghold traps is pursuant to the standards, that is, it is conditional.
At the same time, and despite a range of related problems also including cosmetic testing and farm animal husbandry, the Commission has failed to present any formal analysis or proposals on how to approach or resolve the complex issue of trade and animal welfare: for example, with respect to utilization or modification of the existing Article XX exceptions within the WTO rules.
The Commission has similarly failed to raise these concerns in Geneva or to support the development of a high-level dialogue on the subject, an idea first proposed at the Globe Symposium held in 1996.
This agreement with the USA suffers from the same deficiencies as those we previously rejected with Canada and Russia, and it is even weaker as Mr Pimenta shows in his report.
We believe that the Commission has taken the wrong path since it refused to implement the regulation of 1991 at its due date of 1996.
We also hope that it will underline the need to strengthen Article 20 of the GATT.
Whilst Canada and Russia had at least promised to implement the ban on so-called conventional leghold traps, the same can in no way be said of the United States.
But even more serious are the consequences for the well-being of animals, because millions of animals will continue to die a cruel death in these leghold traps.
Yet we are now approaching the year 2000 and still think in this way.
During the last 20 days, three brown bears have died.
In fact, this agreement lags far behind in relation to the agreement between the European Union, Canada and Russia, which is itself limited.
Mr President, by way of introduction I would like to say that safeguarding animal welfare is indeed paramount.
It applies only to 13 species, as opposed to the 19 covered by the new agreement.
They have already done the same for other unrelated issues, such as the international market in electrical engineering, and this shows that there really is inequality in the agreements we sign with the United States.
We concluded an agreement with the United States in December 1997, just as we had concluded an agreement with Canada and Russia in July 1997.
Europe is one of the major consumers of the fur pelt trade - something like 70 % of which ends up within the European Union.
The agreement has taken the form of an agreed minute which corresponds, although with a simplified and more flexible format, to the main text of the agreement with Canada and the Russian Federation.
But - and this is the point I would like to emphasize - this agreement with the United States is a legally binding international agreement and, as such, is binding on the whole of the United States, and the United States cannot escape from its consequences by saying that one of its states will not go along with it.
Only the implementation schedule has been modified in order to include the derogations laid down in Article 10 of the Canada/Russia Agreement.
It is true that, contrary to the agreement with Canada and Russia, the US agreement does not contain detailed and binding procedures for the settlement of possible disputes, but one should note that in return the US would not obtain the same level of security for its trade in furs as Canada and Russia have because, in the event of a flagrant violation of the agreement by the United States which could not be settled through the consultation procedure provided, the European Union would fully retain its right to resort immediately to Regulation 3254/91 and impose a ban on US imports.
It was wise that the legal requirement should do that because the international agreement provides for an improvement in animal welfare - not perhaps as far as we would wish to go, but a significant improvement in animal welfare - as opposed to the negative solution of a ban which would not help a single animal.
The debate is closed.
Another aspect it is important to emphasize, and an innovative one, is that approximately 50 % of the overall financial compensation is allocated to specific aid to the Guinean fishing industry, particularly in terms of scientific programmes, technical and professional training schemes, support schemes for the bodies responsible for the surveillance and supervision of fishing activities and artisanal fishermen's support schemes.
An even more important aspect is that payment of the financial compensation is dependent on the effective implementation of those actions in connection with the development of local fisheries and the conservation of resources.
For these reasons, it can be seen that the contents of this report conform to the guidelines laid down by the Council at its meeting of 30 October 1997, according to which approximately half the Community finance ought to be dedicated to objectives specifically aimed at improving the fisheries situation.
First of all, there is the problem with the number of fishing boats: 74 compared with the 43 allowed in the previous agreement.
It is a very clear report and I should like to support everything it says, on behalf of my group.
We support this report and congratulate the rapporteur once again on his work.
So from my point of view, like the previous speakers, I think Parliament should approve the text as it stands, with the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries, and also Mr Girão Pereira's Amendment No 5.
On the other hand, I am completely opposed to Amendment No 6 tabled by Mr Teverson.
As has been said, the increase of more than 50 % in the financial compensation is extraordinarily significant, but the way it is to be distributed is even more important.
Mr President, it is rather strange that everybody is emphasizing what good developmental aspects these reports have for the fishing industry of Guinea, in this case, and for other countries as well.
So things are getting better, but still there is a problem with regard to consultation with the European Parliament.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the honourable gentleman for his excellent report on the new terms and conditions for fishing by the Community fleet in the waters off Guinea.
With this protocol, the Commission recognizes the action taken since 1996 by the Guinean Government to ensure overall control of access stocks and to develop the battle against illegal fishing and marine research.
The Commission also considers that this new protocol with Guinea contains major innovations aimed in particular at promoting sustainable fishing, while being compatible with both the development policy and the Union's regional approach to fisheries agreements.
The protocol marks significant progress in our regional approach and that is reflected in a harmonization of the financial terms offered by the Community to the various countries in the subregion.
The protocol allocates 50 % of the overall financial provision - that is to say ECU 3.25 million - over two years to schemes designed to promote marine research, the monitoring of fisheries to support small-scale fishing and training facilities and to contribute to international fisheries organizations.
Guinea attaches great importance to that because this year it holds the chairmanship of two regional fisheries commissions: the Subregional Commission for Fishing off the Gulf of Guinea and the Ministerial Conference of Atlantic Coastal States.
The protocol provides for close cooperation between the two parties in managing the schemes and gives us the possibility of reviewing payments involved in the light of how it is implemented.
Turning to the amendments proposed, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 4 since that goes against established doctrines regarding the nature of our international fisheries agreements and would adversely affect the powers of the Commission to conduct negotiations.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 in principle, if not in their present form.
The debate is closed.
