What was said was the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we all heard it in our headphones.
There is an error in the English version, which says 'Bureau' .
Madam President, I notice from the Minutes of this morning, as well as yesterday morning and the previous day that there is obviously a serious problem of underemployment among the Conservatives in this House.
Madam President, this is about tomorrow's Minutes.
Mr Falconer, I think there was a mistake, because the amendments exist in all the languages.
It is unacceptable when Parliament is exercising its responsibility in relation to the budget, and when the Committee on Budgets is following the decision of the Bureau of Parliament, that there should be a demonstration which is being personalized against both the Secretary-General and this Parliament's rapporteur as in the case with the performance which is going on at the moment.
Thank you, Mr Tomlinson.
I believe that we must be very, very careful, and that everyone must do his or her part.
To reassure Mrs Van Dijk and her press officers it is important that names from K to Z are also shown on the attendance list.
Votes Draft amendments to Sections I - European Parliament, II - Council, IV - Court of Justice, V - Court of Auditors and VI - Economic and Social Committee and Committee of the Regions, of the draft general budget of the European Union for financial year 1998 (COM(97)0280 - C4-0300/97) Tillich (PPE), rapporteur. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the House was not very full during the debate.
That is why I would like to repeat a point I made in the debate: my sincere thanks to all colleagues who were so cooperative and helpful in the House during the finalizing of the budget.
The Committee on Budgets and the other committees have been at pains to do everything correctly.
On Amendment No 731 concerning tropical rainforest, application is made for an increase of ECU 5 million to the total budget of ECU 50 million.
With Amendment No 10 - line B7-6602 - we agreed to transfer 50 % of this sum to the reserve on condition that a working programme is produced for this budget line by 31 March.
Thank you, Mr Tillich.
On Amendment No 127 Madam President, the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have tabled this again.
On the remarks of Amendment No 199 Madam President, there is a great deal of importance in having the remarks of 199 voted because they will make this money more easily available to the Administration to facilitate spending.
I congratulate Mr Tillich very warmly on his excellent work, and all the members of the Committee on Budgets.
Madam President, we want a split vote on this amendment to paragraph 13, so that we vote first on the first sentence up to the words 'suggest improvements' , and then on the second part.
I do not know whether Commissioner Wulf-Mathies is able to answer on Commissioner Gradin's area.
I now invite the Commissioner, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, to speak so that we are then in a better position to vote.
First, the Commission must insist on its proposal concerning Amendments Nos 39 and 40, that the resolution be passed with a qualified majority.
The Commission cannot, therefore, support the request for a unanimous resolution. (Applause from certain quarters ) Concerning Amendments Nos 25 and 30, I should point out that it is hardly realistic to lift the requirement for a visa and the ability to turn crossers back at the border.
The reason why the Commission has not provided for consultation of Parliament as an absolute condition in article 12, is that the Council of Ministers must be able to react quickly in cases of mass flight.
I should therefore like it to be recorded that I voted against Amendment No 6.
We have experienced an important day and so it is also important for a record to be made in the Minutes for future reference of the profound disappointment that both I, on behalf of my group, and many other colleagues, feel at this time.
I voted against the draft general budget for 1998 to show my disapproval, first of the increased amount of expenditure on the structural funds, which has been forecast since the preliminary draft, but also of the other increased expenditure which the European Parliament requests.
In fact, the Commission had presented a preliminary draft in which payment appropriations rose to ECU 91, 350 billion.
The Council reduced this figure to 90, 884, to make the Union participate in the budgetary discipline efforts which are demanded of the Member States in view of the single currency.
By an agreement signed on 16 July between the Commission, Parliament and the Council, it was accepted that the common foreign policy budget should be placed in the category of 'non-obligatory' expenditure, on which the European Parliament has the last word.
The draft general budget for 1998 is a shameful attempt at pulling the wool over the eyes of working people and public opinion.
For reasons of demagogy and disorientation it makes a gesture towards the scourge of unemployment with forecasts of the availability of the derisory sum of ECU 150 million.
The European Parliament's proposals on employment, which are not sure of being accepted by the Council, amount to approximately ECU 8 per registered unemployed person, and naturally that is incapable of contributing in the least to addressing this most critical issue for the people of Europe.
The undersigned ÖVP Members have voted for the budget, because it is a good and important instrument for the further development of our common Union.
We shall do everything within our power to see that this premium is no longer included in the next budget.
Admittedly ECU 15 million were found for promoting the quality of agricultural products.
But as has been said, keeping the ad hoc procedure open after the first reading by Parliament largely deals with that objection.
The Council and Parliament were strongly opposed to the Commission's approach and were of course successful.
Tillich report (A4-0290/97) More than half of the Community's budget goes to support agriculture in the Member States.
The expenditure in the area of agriculture and the regional structural funds are among the compulsory items of expenditure and are decided by the Council of Ministers, even though the President of the Parliament ultimately signs the budget.
We think there are a lot of things within the EU's expenditure in these two areas which can be strongly called into question.
Tomlinson report (A4-0280/97) Mr President, this vote has also been marked by the same attitude.
When examining the budget of the other institutions, we sought to adopt a uniform line which, once again, came up against a brick wall on several highly significant amendments, such as the one to increase the Sakharov Prize appropriation.
Naturally, we also supported the ending of subsidies for the restaurants in the European Parliament (paragraph 24 of the report).
We regret the decision by the European Court of Justice that the European Parliament must have 12 partsessions per year in Strasbourg, which has an affect on the budget because the costs of the weekly move are increasing.
Out of Parliament's costs of ECU 914 million, 23 % goes towards the costs of building work.
Lannoye report (A4-0310/97) Mr President, there was a lot of comment in the press to the effect that the votes on the cocoa directive were totally predictable and that they took the line of individual Members' Member States.
First condition: a clear, obvious indication for the consumer, that is not a simple mention in the list of ingredients, but a visible description such as "chocolate with vegetable fats' .
Second condition: it must be possible to measure the quality of these vegetable fats exactly, which is not the case in the current state of scientific knowledge.
If vegetable fats must be accepted with a ceiling of 5 %, this possibility should only be offered when it is possible to measure the quantity of them precisely.
If any of these three conditions - which are converted into amendments - is not fulfilled, we will be unable to vote for the Lannoye report.
The revision of the former 1973 directive turned out to be very useful, and EU harmonization was absolutely necessary.
When a directive is revised, it must, for chocolate in this case, maintain the demand for quality of the product, and harmonize it in the European countries.
Besides, the composition of vegetable fats is very close to that of cocoa butter, so that checking the 5 % limit is difficult, or even impossible, which is unsatisfactory for the consumer.
Amendments Nos 9 and 21 were particularly hostile to the interests of the Irish milk chocolate industry as indeed were many other amendments.
It follows that if permitting the marketing of chocolate-flavoured products containing up to 5 % of substituted vegetable fats in all Member States is desired, it is difficult for me to accept that these products have exactly the same name as 100 % cocoa products.
A clear label such as "chocolate-flavoured' ought to be used for this type of product.
Seven Member States permit the use of 5 % vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in the manufacture of chocolate products, and, in the face of the Commission's attempt to simplify the regulations on foodstuffs by means of this draft directive, a "chocolate war' has broken out, amongst other reasons - and let us not deceive ourselves - because the industry itself is divided.
This exception was taken into account in the final vote.
Despite the complexity of this dossier, he has succeeded in amending the proposal of the European Commission in terms which satisfy me completely.
The 1973 directive defines chocolate, and forbids the use of vegetable fats in its composition as a substitute for cocoa butter.
However, a derogation was provided when three new states - the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland - entered the EEC, authorizing them to use vegetable fats other than cocoa butter up to 5 % of the total weight.
This derogation thus authorizes these states to manufacture and sell this type of chocolate on their territory only .
By virtue of the principle of subsidiarity, the Commission's proposal allows Member States the option of authorizing the addition of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, up to 5 % of the total weight of the product, while guaranteeing its free movement throughout the EU by the name "chocolate' .
This simple condition is quite insufficient, and thus unacceptable.
In fact, the Commission wishes to allow a product which contains vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, and is manufactured in a state which permits this addition, to be called chocolate, whereas this is not possible today.
Currently, the countries which forbid these vegetable fats in the production of chocolate represent two-thirds of EU production.
The Commission thus chooses to make the exception into the rule, to the detriment of traditional chocolates and the information of consumers.
So it is indispensable to limit the use of vegetable fats to tropical fats - illipé , shea and palm oil - of which some ACP countries such as Mali or Burkina Faso are producers, in such a way that these countries are not disadvantaged too much and the use of vegetable fats by producers is limited.
Also, no method today makes it possible to detect exactly the presence, quality and type of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate.
The margin of error is at least 30 %.
It is therefore right to make bringing this directive into force depend on perfecting a technique for detecting vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate.
The debate, like the flood of amendments tabled, has brought out very contradictory positions.
Some people want priority given to consumers, cocoa producers and small and medium chocolate companies, whereas others want to grant privileges to the six multinational companies which by themselves represent 74 % of the European market for chocolate-flavoured products.
It is essential to preserve the economy of the 31 ACP states which are heavily dependent on cocoa exports.
I remind you that the West African cocoa producers market 90 % of their production within the European Union, and that 11 million people depend directly on the cocoa harvest.
A second series of amendments relates to consumer protection.
A product which incorporates vegetable fats other than cocoa must not be called chocolate, but a chocolate-flavoured product.
A third series of amendments relates to control.
Indeed, how is it possible to authorize incorporation of vegetable fats in a chocolate-flavoured product, at 5 % maximum, unless reliable quantitative methods of checking are available?
But research after the fact is not what is needed.
I know very well that the Commission often has a habit of proceeding like this, and adopting decisions regarding external commercial relations without any research in advance on the consequences.
Regarding employment within the European Union, I would remind you that 6 companies by themselves represent 74 % of the European market for chocolate, and that a large number of small and medium-sized food processing companies exist and share the remaining percentage.
If this directive is adopted as it stands, many of these companies will be doomed to disappear, and obviously, many jobs will also disappear in this sector, which represents a famous traditional European activity.
His report has succeeded in taking stock of all the problems raised by this proposal from the European Commission.
Indeed, without returning to these points in detail, I am eager to stress that a general authorization to add vegetable fats other than cocoa butter throughout the EU would result in a reduction of cocoa consumption, estimated at between 88, 000 and 125, 000 tonnes, compared to total world production of 2.6 million tonnes.
The EU is party to agreements within its relations with the ACP countries.
The amendments on which my vote in favour of this text depended have not all been adopted, and I regret this.
That is why I voted against the report as amended by this House.
I have voted in accordance with the Swedish Social Democrat line that it should be permissible to add 5 % of vegetable fat other than cocoa butter to chocolate.
Mosiek-Urbahn report (A4-0295/97) There is absolutely no reason for the EU to concern itself with this question.
Breyer report (A4-0281/97) Mr President, I want to speak on the Breyer report, as a Member for Lubéron and LanguedocRoussillon, the premier wine-producing region of the world, but also of your country, President Imbeni.
By doing this, we are doing considerable damage to the production of grape juices, which makes it possible to use thousands and thousands of hectolitres of must.
Of the 28 amendments accepted by the Committee on the Environment, the most important are the ones that complete the annexes with new additives.
But there are a number of proposed amendments to the report which give cause for concern.
I am voting against the proposed amendments which seek to increase the number of permitted additives.
I must also object strongly to nicine being included on the approved list (Amendments Nos 32 and 36).
Medicine and food should always be kept strictly separate, and particularly when, as in this amendment, it involves using egg products as ingredients in a wide range of products.
For instance, certain amendments which the Committee on the Environment has adopted will cause very serious problems in the sector of low-fat dairy product manufacture or of dehydrated potatoes.
Our group has put down two very specific amendments concerning two different sectors of activity.
These two amendments illustrate the philosophy which, in our opinion, the directive concerning ingredients ought to have accepted.
It is necessary to know that France represents 75 % of European production of grape juice.
In conclusion, I wish to draw the attention of the House to the fact that standards must not be used with the intention of diverting parts of the market to the profit of competing companies in other Member States.
In this field, perhaps even more than others, the sovereignty of the States must be absolutely respected.
The proposal for common action on temporary protection of displaced persons, addressed by the Commission to the Council, ought to alarm all responsible people who are concerned about the interests of our fellow citizens.
This category is different from that of asylum seekers, that is, people who are persecuted for their opinions, and who can take refuge with us under the convention of 28 July 1951.
In any case, this is not apparently a concern of the authors of the text, who have only indicated, in article 4 of the draft, that "in organizing the return, priority will be given to the furtherance of voluntary repatriation, in close cooperation with the international organizations concerned' .
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the report on temporary protection for refugees.
These are people in need and we should be aware of our own humanitarian responsibilities.
The Commission's proposals are good, as they give people in need the opportunity for being treated equally by the EU.
This will be in everyone's best interests in the long run, both the Member States and the refugees.
The EU is not a state, but should strictly be intergovernmental cooperation.
However, I do find it difficult to see why this is being discussed in the European Parliament.
We must use all our influence to improve human rights in that country and of course the Taliban's unacceptable policy on human rights must be properly and consistently condemned.
The Taliban did away with any notion of democracy and human rights in the country, depriving the women of any possibility of education, work, freedom of speech and movement, and even of the right to medical and pharmaceutical care, since the only general hospital in Kabul for women operates with inadequate electricity, water and medical equipment.
The motive, of course, is power and the control of the country, of a country which has been struggling for eighteen years to find its way to democracy and progress.
To conclude, I would like to call on the Council of Ministers, the European Commission, the governments of Member States and the international organizations to stop all aid to Afghanistan, unless this aid goes directly to the nongovernmental organizations, and to undertake global action to resolve the political problems of Afghanistan through peaceful means, and to institute respect for human rights and democratic freedoms.
Mrs Karamanou, I can understand that you are very keen to say a great deal, but if everyone were to overrun one minute we would need a third as much time again for our debate, and we are very short of time today.
And I thank the Commission for having had, through Emma Bonino, the courage to raise again the question of the Taliban and their mediaeval regime, which particularly oppresses Afghan women, as everyone knows, with a severity unparalleled in any other country.
It has reminded the European Union and the international community of their duties.
The European Union must make its voice heard, particularly regarding the fate of Afghan women.
From this point of view, I am very happy that a paragraph of the resolution which we are going to approve shortly states that 8 March is a symbolic date to be dedicated to Afghan women.
I would like to ask Commissioner de Silguy, as a member of the Commission, what he thinks of this idea of the Parliament, if he can make it his own, and if we can see together how to ensure that 8 March 1998 is a day dedicated to Afghan women and thus to the freedom of women and men throughout the world.
Mr President, another comment that follows on from what my Socialist colleague just said.
Madam President, the situation on human rights in Afghanistan is growing increasingly threatening.
The population is suffering from the civil war, which has lasted nearly 20 years, with catastrophic economic results, and it is suffering under the self-aggrandisement and lack of human respect of the Civil War Party.
In the Islamic world they are acknowledged only by Saudi Arabia and Pakistan.
This isolation shows that the Taliban is not so much interested in religion, as in power and money.
The rigorous order which the Taliban have imposed restricts the fundamental rights of women and tends to make them second-class citizens.
Also, Mr Dell'Alba, regarding paragraph 9 of the resolution, I can support with pleasure your proposal to devote special attention to the position of Afghan women on the next Women's Day, 8 March 1998.
I would remind you that the European Union is the principal supplier of aid to Afghanistan, that all the aid which it grants goes through the NGOs, and that the allocated sums during the past two years amount to ECU 120 million.
Political considerations must fade away in the face of a simple fact: our failure to act would create many victims, which that country can do without!
In December 1996, the European Union approved the embargo on arms supplies to Afghanistan.
The UN is making significant efforts to find a peaceful solution.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, as someone who has visited North Korea, at my own expense, with two colleagues, Clive Needle and David Thomas, I am pleased to speak in this debate.
It is a sad country.
The climate, culture and history have conspired against it.
The result has been that the daily distribution of food has shrunk from 700 grams a day to 500, then to 300 and is now a starving 100 grams.
Since 1989 agricultural production has fallen by 50 %, production of coal by 65 % and fertilizer by 75 %.
The UN has recently indicated that 17 % of North Korean children are suffering from malnutrition.
The NGOs on the spot, the UNDP, UNICEF, MSF, Children's Aid Direct and representatives of the European Commission all confirm what we saw for ourselves.
That is why we will try to modify the resolution during the vote.
The NGOs and the European Commission confirm this.
Ceaucescu almost seemed like a choirboy beside those who reign in North Korea, and some people want to make us believe, today, that the problem is merely one of drought, of shortage of food, whereas we are confronted by a crazy regime, which throws itself like the Pharaohs into projects in honour of Kim Il-Sung I, II and soon III.
This is really insanity.
We are asked for a separate vote on point 2, the only purpose of which is that Western journalists should be able to go to North Korea and travel around there, to check whether, at least, the food aid does not finish in the pockets of the existing holders of power, but actually benefits those who need it.
For that reason we must make a clear statement from this Parliament that we make both our short term and our long term aid subject to certain conditions.
Short term aid must be quite clearly subject to the condition that we say we want to know where our aid is ending up.
The Commission must carry out a rapid expansion of its humanitarian aid, and at the same time develop a more long-term strategy to be able to prevent similar situations from arising in future.
The situation is worsened by the well-known closure policy of the Pyongyang government which prevents us appreciating the real extent of the food crisis affecting that country.
I hope that the Commission will answer this point clearly and will respond to the propaganda that has been made in this Chamber in the face of a tragedy: the propaganda of those who would like to see the aid given to a people subject to forcing a government we may condemn into political negotiations, without in any way altering the gravity of the situation.
We must do everything in our power to encourage that search for political solutions.
Madam President, I must say that it is not something that happens to me every day but this time I am in complete agreement with the resolution on the famine in North Korea.
Firstly the three amendments by Mr Dupuis, which I consider a useful addition in that they refer more explicitly than the resolution itself to what is really responsible for this disaster: the communist regime in which the rulers and their families live in almost unbelievable luxury and the rest of the population in almost unbelievable poverty.
Madam President, I recently visited North Korea with Trocaire, an Irish catholic agency, courtesy of my ECU allowance.
It is strange and weird.
But we are in a dilemma here.
We must continue with the dialogue.
The total aid for 1997 thus rose to about 230, 000 tonnes of cereal equivalent.
Today, Mr Pettinari, the European Union, with ECU 66.5 million, is the biggest aid donor to North Korea.
The result of these urgent actions is positive.
Nevertheless, the food situation of Korea remains - and I share the feelings of many of you - very difficult.
For this, the Commission is waiting for the result of the research by FAO and the World Food Programme on the quality of the harvests in Korea.
The debate is closed.
Democratic Republic of Congo Madam President, on 3 October last, the United Nations Mission for Human Rights was called to the UN headquarters for consultations.
The Congolese Government, in fact, was preventing it from investigating the alleged massacres in the country.
It is fairly difficult, if not impossible, for the new Congolese authorities to be able to run their country on the path of democracy and development without European Union aid.
This delegation arrived on 24 August and was forced to leave Kinshasa again on 3 October.
We should like to emphasize that the UN measures must be carried out, and appeal to President Kabila to cooperate fully with the UN mission of inquiry, and to permit it unlimited and unconditional access to the interior of the country.
Madam President, first of all, let there be no ambiguity about our move.
It is true that the new regime must be clear from now on about respect for human rights, and it would really be a pity if Kabila wastes the opportunity which the mission of inquiry offers, because this must produce the truth about the killings and massacres which have actually occurred.
We regret it for obvious reasons, because we think that a regime cannot base its authority or create international confidence unless it is based on the common values of respect for human rights.
On the other side of the river, a dictator who was driven out at the ballot box returns to power by force, and thanks to the help of several foreign states, and in this case we find nothing to say in our emergency resolutions.
Madam President, many of us had hoped that the end of the Mobutu dictatorship would bring the new Congo to greater democratic achievements and development.
However, since the first moves made by President Kabila, it seems to be necessary to continue with an active and firm policy with regard to the new Kinshasa authorities.
The European Union cannot, in fact, accept that the Congolese President is defying the entire international community and preventing a United Nations mission from investigating accusations made against the Kinshasa Government for making indiscriminate massacres in eastern Zaire.
Europe should make respect for international legality and the implementation of the UN mission in Kivu a fundamental condition for the resumption of cooperation with the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The Maastricht Treaty requires that Union should have an active common human rights policy.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Unionist Party has therefore decided this morning to request an oral question with debate next month, so that the Council can explain its strategy.
Today we have a resolution which in my view makes a common opinion possible.
It must be our obligation - and for this we need a dialogue with China - to convince the Chinese side that as long as human rights are not widely recognized, as long as there is no progress in this respect, there cannot be the necessary advances in economic and social systems.
For these reasons the proposals we have produced should be fully supported, and I hope that at least in this House a unified and critical, though frank and solid, front can be presented to China.
I think my group will fully associate itself with it.
We must obtain either a clear position saying that there will be no resolution, thus showing that the European Union speaks a double language, with fine speeches about human rights when there are speeches to be made, but nothing concrete when the opportunity presents itself, or a change of position by five states which I shall name - Italy, France, Great Britain, Greece and Spain - which finally rejoin the ten other Member States and fight for the European Union to position itself clearly on the question of human rights.
A question which has been made even more relevant in recent days by President Jiang Zemin, who has spoken of the differences of rights depending on where one is on the planet.
I believe that it is particularly difficult, Mr Swoboda, to talk of dialogue under these conditions.
Madam President, as colleagues will recall, we adopted a resolution in my name in this House on the subject of EU-China relations in the long term just before the summer break.
That report dealt with a very wide spectrum of relationships: the economic, the political and, of course, the question of human rights.
The European Union, represented by the Commission on this occasion, has recently come to an agreement under which the human rights troika, in other words the dialogue between China and the European Union, will be resumed without conditions.
I congratulate the Commission on this achievement, in particular Sir Leon Brittan, because this means that we can once again engage in discussions about these very sensitive subjects.
Most importantly, because there are no conditions, it allows the European Union to proceed, if it wishes - and I hope it does - by tabling a resolution in Geneva at the next session next year to redeem our failure last year: the CFSP came under a lot of criticism because we could not unite on this question.
I have here the latest report from Human Rights Watch on human rights in China in 1997.
At the same time I must admit that I was given something to think about the other day when Professor Tommy Koh, who is the director of the Asia-Europe Foundation in Singapore, was here in the European Parliament and commented on our way of dealing with China.
Mr President, when I met the new Chief Executive of Hong Kong, Tung Chee-hwa, earlier this week, I raised a number of concerns relating to recent developments there which do not augur well for the protection of human rights.
The use of universal suffrage would be more appropriate.
These laws protected basic trade union rights and their removal is a very worrying development.
We had a very frank exchange of views and as Parliament's rapporteur for Hong Kong I intend to monitor the situation very closely to ensure that basic human rights and freedoms are not eroded.
I thank him for according our institution that respect.
Kosovo Mr President, we in this Parliament have often, far too often, been forced to observe Serbia's unjust oppression of the Albanian population in Kosovo.
We, who are elected representatives of the people of Europe, demand of Serbia that the government initiates negotiations with the Kosovo Albanian leaders about the future status of the region as soon as possible, and that it immediately gives the EU the right to open an office in Pristina.
Mr President, no-one in this Chamber is unaware that the Kosovo problems are closely connected with the general problem in the Balkans and the fact that the Albanian communities present in Yugoslavia and Macedonia are closely connected with the problems in Albania.
For these reasons, we confirm the need, as already stated, to open a European Union office in Pristina, we confirm the need for respect for that dialogue and those agreements already effected between Milosevic and Rugova that should guarantee the opening and maintenance of university education systems for the Albanian minority.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we must deal once more with Kosovo, which is still a powder keg, and probably the most dangerous powder keg in Europe.
Mr President, on the subject of Kosovo, as just now on the subject of Congo, I would like to try to go against the dominant ideas.
I do not underestimate the democratic problems which may occur in Kosovo, or the possible attacks on human rights, but I want, once again, to warn against the temptation, to which the majority of this House is subject, of demonizing Serbia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I do not have enough time to answer Mr Hory.
Our Western governments even forge agreements with Serbia for the return of the Kosovo refugees, a return to their executioners.
Unlike the USA, all European governments have unfortunately recognized Yugoslavia without the stipulation that steps for a solution of the Kosovo crisis had to be taken.
I hope that perhaps an opportunity will emerge from Montenegro to ensure that Yugoslavia organizes itself in such a way, that everyone who lives there can be subject to democratic government.
Yugoslavia was destroyed by Milosevic and the Serbs when in 1988, in violation of the Yugoslavian constitution, they removed Kosovo's autonomy.
There is no contact between the Albanian population and the authorities and both parties are, so to speak, caught up in their own rhetoric and in the Balkans in particular you cannot risk loss of face by negotiating with anyone.
There is more and more talk of attacks, even on refugees who have settled in the area and in my view leaders like Rugova and Demaci do too little to distance themselves from this.
Souha Bechara Mr President, throughout the case of Souha Bechara, it is in fact the state of lawlessness prevailing in that region which has to be condemned.
Mr President, eight years ago, on 25 May 1989, the European Parliament drew attention in a resolution to the case of Souha Bechara.
She has now been in prison for nine years.
Mr President, Souha Bechara was 21 years old when she was arrested, on 7 November 1988, after an act of resistance against Israel's auxiliary militia in Lebanon.
Since 1989, as we have been reminded, our Chamber has requested the liberation of Souha Bechara.
The Israeli Government is directly responsible for this imprisonment, since it occupies South Lebanon militarily, and it is using Souha Bechara as a hostage.
It is time to put an end to this intolerable situation, as Souha Bechara's mother and the humanitarian organizations asked us during the last part-session.
In its motion for a resolution, our group requests the immediate release of Souha Bechara and the other political detainees, and the dismantling of the Khiam camp.
Slovakia Mr President, I have read the motion for a resolution on the Slovak Republic with interest.
But it is equally unusual that a President of Parliament finds himself unable to participate in a longstanding meeting with colleagues from the central and eastern European countries in Slovakia, because a colleague has just lost his seat in the National Council of the Republic of Slovakia under conditions in glaring contravention to the Slovak constitution.
Mr President, if there is one point on which the European Union cannot compromise in its relations with associated countries, it is that of human rights and democracy.
It is pointless to add that the request for Slovakia to join the European Union must remain a dead letter for as long as this state does not resolve to adopt behaviour which is worthy of a state of law and compatible with the Copenhagen criteria, which is a precondition of starting the accession process.
The effect of the irresponsible and unacceptable role of some Slovak institutions is to isolate Slovakia even more, and as some of the speakers before me have emphasized, this is to the detriment of the Slovak people.
Slovakia is certainly welcome as a member; its economic development in particular is very satisfactory.
The European Union can wait.
Algeria Mr President, on Wednesday morning, our Chamber approved a resolution on Algeria being put down in the emergency debate.
Mr President, is it credible that, on a subject as serious as the crisis which is raging in Algeria, a whole group should vote by mistake?
Some people think our resolution of September is enough, that the public hearing with the Algerian authorities and civil society, scheduled for 25 November, could be compromised if we express ourselves today, that the ad hoc parliamentary delegation could be cancelled.
No newspaper today is silent on Algeria.
The silence of the European Council is unacceptable.
The international community has the instruments to intervene, and above all to unfreeze the Algerian crisis.
Today, for the fourth time in two years, the Algerians are voting.
The indifference of the population is obvious and entirely understandable.
Since 1991, neither the military nor the authorities in power have succeeded in restoring calm.
Mr President, a state of law must guarantee the security of its citizens.
We were against it because we had already passed a resolution on Algeria last time, after a full debate.
The problem is so urgent and so serious, and long discussions with the Algerian Government and Parliament will probably be necessary in any case before we can send this delegation, that I do not understand why there is delay.
Mr President, the situation in Algeria remains serious and is totally unacceptable.
The EU and this Parliament are rightly concerned, as recorded in the resolution adopted in the last part-session.
It is my group's view that we first have to take these steps before moving on to the initiatives proposed in the resolution - however sensible these might be in the future.
Our group will vote against the proposed resolution of the liberal group, which is a provocation on the very day of the municipal elections in Algeria.
I shall start with Congo, that is the Democratic Republic of Congo, since the resolution only concerns that country.
However, article 5 of the Lomé Convention links European aid to respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, and to real engagement in favour of democracy and the establishment of a state of law.
The present situation in Congo is far from satisfactory.
First, the Congolese government continues to block the United Nations inquiry into human rights.
Second, the government also delays starting the democratic process, which is indispensable to the recovery of the country.
The Congolese Government must put its commitments to democratization and human rights into effect, and it must allow the United Nations to carry out the work for which it has been mandated.
The Commission is immediately pursuing its humanitarian aid programmes to help Congo to heal its wounds.
The Commission is following the issue of respect for human rights and fundamental liberties in China with the greatest attention.
This subject has been taken up regularly with the Chinese authorities within our bilateral dialogue, since it began in 1994.
I can say to him - although he is no longer among us - that we take this question seriously, without even waiting for the arrival of the euro on 1 January 1999.
The Commission would like to take this opportunity of joining with the Parliament in condemning the violent repression of which the people who demonstrated peacefully on 1 October were victims, and of expressing its constant concern about the general situation in Kosovo.
The rights of the Albanian minority must be guaranteed, and Kosovo must be given a large degree of autonomy within the borders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
For the European Union, the start of a real dialogue on the status of Kosovo is a necessary condition for the development of bilateral relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
First, the Commission wishes to see the implementation of Resolution 425 of the Security Council of the UN, asking Israel to put a time limit on the occupation of southern Lebanon.
The Commission expects Israel, as the responsible occupying power, to observe international standards on human rights, and the fourth Geneva convention on protection of civilians in wartime immediately.
The Euro-Israeli political dialogue will then offer an excellent forum for this purpose.
Second, the opposition must be able to participate in the normal functioning of parliamentary activities.
The Slovak authorities must continue their efforts to meet the democratic standards which are recognized in other European countries.
Its authorities are conscious of the efforts which must be made.
The partnership for accession, which is currently being prepared, will give a large place to the question of human rights and the proper functioning of institutions.
It is clear that the protection of fundamental liberties is a sine qua non of belonging to the European Union.
The Commission shares the concern of the European Parliament regarding the recurring murders of civilians in Algeria.
The Union cannot avoid being concerned about a conflict which is such a short distance away, has already made tens of thousands of victims, and every day seems to reach new limits of horror.
Algeria is an important partner of the Community, within the Euromediterranean partnership which was launched in 1995 in Barcelona.
The long term objective remains the creation of an area of peace and shared prosperity.
The Commission received from the Council, on 10 June 1996, a mandate to negotiate to prepare an association agreement between the Union and Algeria.
This agreement must obviously be based on respect for democratic principles and the fundamental rights of the human being, as stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
A large part of the violence has its roots in the serious economic and social problems through which Algeria is passing.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
We have drawn up this resolution together and it strikes us that the European Commission has certainly taken the initiative in helping Indonesia fight the fires, but in both cases it seems to me a little too late.
That is why I am so much in favour of paragraph 13 of the motion for a resolution, in which we call for a European green beret force to be set up as a kind of intervention force specialising in natural and environmental disasters.
Mr President, the forest fires which have been raging in Indonesia are nothing short of a global environmental catastrophe.
I call the attention of the House to the article in The Economist only last week which was predicting exactly such an event.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers have already referred to the enormity of the catastrophe unleashed by the forest fires currently raging in south-east, especially Indonesia.
However, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to underline as forcefully as possible the concern caused by the growing number of natural disasters of this kind and by the absence of measures to rectify certain of the developed world's industrial activities, which threaten the environment and cause climate change, in the face of the lack of action on the part of those who are obliged to adopt more effective preventive measures.
We are obliged to make an effort to ensure that the Kyoto Conference is not a failure, as has been the case with a number of previous conferences of this kind in the latter part of the century.
Mr President, when we first heard of those catastrophes the media blamed El Niño for the forest fires in Indonesia.
Therefore, my group has proposed that a system of civil liability should be introduced in the framework of an international convention on forests.
As a rapporteur on the communication on research and development in developing countries, I urge the Commission especially to ensure that sustainable management - not sustainable exploitation, as we say here in our motion for a resolution - for tropical forests is introduced.
The Commission should help us in this.
Mr President, the resolution in front of us naturally reflects concern for the environment in Indonesia and the region, but in my view the resolution focuses almost exclusively on the environment and completely ignores the needs of many small farmers in the area who have to find land to make a livelihood.
According to information from the Indonesian Forestry Minister 80 % of the current fires originated on plantations belonging to the major timber companies.
The largest plantations belong to companies such as Finantara Intiga, a joint venture by two Indonesian companies and the Finnish concern ENZO FINLAND.
The new concern is the largest producer of high-grade paper in Europe.
In Asia, paper mills in Sumatra, Indonesia and China will produce about two million tonnes of paper and cellulose.
The forest fires in Kalimantan also affect worst the indigenous peoples there, as their cultural and economic existence depends upon the maintenance of forest resources.
Some colleagues have made it clear that this is a close-knit web of natural factors, but it is bound up with very many important political, social and economic factors as well.
In both cases there are serious inroads into the natural life cycle, but as far as major corporations are concerned, as is particularly the case in Indonesia, this is especially serious.
It is not that we are against economic progress, nor that we are against clearance, even in tropical forest, but there must be sustainable agriculture.
I should really like to ask the Commission to give these things greater attention, in order to take measures against such practices and to arrive at a sensible method of agriculture which particularly favours the small farmers, those who this case are frequently driven out.
I believe that all these factors should be investigated by the Commission and the Council in order to prevent or to stop this evil process, which is destroying people.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that forest fires are a recurrent problem in Indonesia.
To support the efforts of the Indonesian authorities, the Commission and the Member States have jointly created, in Jakarta, a European Union Fire Response Group (Eufreg), consisting of experts on forest fires.
The concern on which this initiative is based is evident, but the Commission considers that the qualified and experienced resources which exist in the Member States can be used and coordinated efficiently by the competent services, within the mechanisms for cooperation and expertise which already exist.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the earthquakes in central Italy have apparently not only caused human suffering but destroyed cultural treasures.
The Union should not look on passively, it should try to understand and follow this human and cultural tragedy and alleviate the distress.
Mr President, Assisi, mentioned by Mr Graziani, Foligno, Nocera Umbra, Colfiorito and many other municipalities of Umbria and the Marches have sustained much damage with irreparable losses of monuments, works of art, churches, houses, with much suffering for the population.
The correct flexibility called for by the two regions affected in spending these sums should naturally also provide firm guarantees for a reconstruction consistent with the culture, architecture and landscape affected.
For this reason, seven political groups are proposing a resolution asking for emergency aid which I believe is already being provided.
To deal with this disaster, which is not just a human one - 13 dead and 9, 000 homeless - but also economic and financial, the Commission has initially allocated just ECU 100, 000 or 200 million lira.
We do not want to express the suppressed fears of the scientific community now about the irregular duration of the earthquake that could involve other areas of Europe at risk of earthquake in historic and not just historic times.
Mr President, much has been said by my colleagues on the disaster that began in Italy in Umbria and in the Marches, in central Italy, on 26 September.
The key issue, which other colleagues have also mentioned, certainly seems to be the aid the European Union can guarantee today to the regions affected.
As requested in point 4 of the resolution, we consider it important, necessary and advisable for exceptional funds to be allocated to these populations.
As spokesperson for the Group Union for Europe, I would like to inform Parliament that we thought of adding a section to paragraph 4, asking the Council and the Commission to assess the possibility that, in the event of natural disasters in one Member State, and therefore not just for the specific situation of Italy, the portion of structural funds allocated to the Member State and not yet used could be reallocated to deal with the emergency situations.
I believe this is an important option for discussion and an important decision for this House to take today, not just for the situation in Italy but for disasters within the European Union in general.
Italian regions which have not used part of their structural funds have shown they are prepared to hand them over to the regions devastated by the earthquake and therefore to central Italy.
In Italy, a veritable contest in solidarity has developed to come to the aid of the victims, a solidarity which today, in view of the exceptional nature of the earthquake and its tragic consequences, requires special emergency aid and special funds, in addition to the structural funds allocated to Italy, within the scope of the 1992-99 programming period.
However, beyond the more urgent aid and in the light of the exceptional duration, the extent and anomalies of the telluric motion, we believe it advisable and urgent to be able to prevent any type of disaster by finding new possibilities of prevention, also resorting to the new technologies offered by modern science.
For this purpose, the Commission needs various specific research programmes for the study and prevention of earthquakes, together with research into new technologies aimed at the reinforcement of the architectural wealth existing in the areas at risk of earthquake and at risk of natural disasters in general.
And then the tropical hardwoods could stay where they are today in the interests of local people, the multinationals and our ecosystem.
There are two fundamental causes of the fires in Indonesia and Brazil: the interests of loggers, and the demands of farmers.
However, our group believes that the seriousness of the damage caused by Hurricane Pauline, with 120 deaths and three states affected - we visited one them, Chiapas, but all three suffer equally from poverty and inadequate housing and infrastructure - lies in the fact that it simply served to aggravate a situation that was already bad.
Acryl amide poisoning in Sweden Mr President, the construction of the tunnel through Hallandsåsen in southern Sweden is a major environmental scandal which I would not have thought possible in Sweden in 1997.
The parties involved in this scandal are two governments, the National Rail Administration, which is building the railway, a major construction company, Skanska, which is carrying out the work and a French chemicals company, Rhône-Poulenc, which is supplying the sealing agent Rhoca-Gil for the construction of the tunnel.
If you knew how incredibly toxic this substance is then you would understand that this is a major environmental scandal - not only in Sweden, but it could be a major environmental scandal throughout Europe, since the agent has been used for more than twenty years throughout the entire world.
Mr President, pollution has occurred in Sweden during the construction of the Hallandsåsan tunnel, significant pollution because it seems that the water table has been affected.
As we have been reminded, on 30 September, several cows which were drinking water at the tunnel exit presented neurotoxic symptoms and had to be destroyed.
I remind you that the operator himself has declared to the press, on 8 October, that mistakes might have been made on his site, and that he took full responsibility for the bodily harm which his employees had suffered.
Of course, we condemn all pollution; of course, we ask the Commission to make an inquiry; but this condemnation of the supplier of the incriminated material, without proof, seems to us all the less urgent because the official inquiry has not given its conclusions.
Unforeseen costs in connection with the construction of the tunnel may have affected environmental safety.
For that reason it is necessary and appropriate for the international community, in this case the EU, to react.
I support the resolution, and I am also pleased that EU opponents from Sweden in this Parliament are now putting their trust in the EU's institutions.
Mr President, it is sad to realise that the representatives of Rhone Poulenc have been lying about the Acryl amide content of this material.
I know many in this Parliament appear to believe in this latter, but surely this example once again shows that there is a need for legislation.
But the Swedish government and the railway company did not fulfil their responsibilities either.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with the first two subjects, Italy and Spain.
Allow me to present the Commission's position on both the earthquakes in Italy and the floods in Spain, and to assure you that the Commission sympathizes with the suffering of the European citizens who have been struck by these two disasters.
To restore this in Italy, the Commission has released since 1 October 1997, emergency aid of ECU 100, 000 to hasten the restoration work on the Giotto and Cimabue frescoes, which were seriously damaged in Assisi.
The presidents of the two regions concerned have therefore addressed to the Commission a request for the objective 5b programme to be adapted, because of the new priorities and new needs resulting from these earthquakes.
Nevertheless, it is indispensable that appropriate financial resources should be provided within the Community regional support framework of objectives 1 or 5b.
The instruction phase of this programme, the proposed amount of which will be of the order of ECU 140 million, is now being finalized.
The Commission will approve it when this phase has been completed.
Within the pilot programme for preserving the tropical forests of Brazil - I recall that it had the effect of inspiring the Brazilian authorities to an Amazon development strategy which is better adapted to environmental constraints - a project for control of fires and deforestation has just been approved, at a cost of 20 million dollars.
The Commission will support this initiative.
The form of this project will be discussed next week in Manaus, Amazonia, during the fourth meeting of the participants in the pilot programme.
The fire control plan will make it possible to understand better the causes and consequences of these fires, by studying nine test areas in Amazonia.
Since the damage was announced, the Commission has reacted quickly and on 10 October it approved aid amounting to ECU 400, 000.
The material damage is significant, but difficult to evaluate.
Regarding your question about Community support for the Hallandsåsen project and the tunnel concerned, the financing of a series of improvements to the West Coast Railway was inferred in a decision of the Commission, which was approved in 1995.
The Commission has done nothing to give its financial support to construction of the tunnel in future.
On the motion for a resolution on Algeria (B4-827/97) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party was in favour of tabling a resolution on the situation in Algeria, partly in the light of a hearing at the end of next month.
We discussed it and thanks to a block vote in favour by the Group of the European People's Party we were able to have the debate.
On the motions for resolutions on natural disasters - Italian earthquake Mr President, as I mentioned a short while ago during the debate in the House, our group would like to propose an addition to paragraph 4 of the joint resolution.
Mr Dell'Alba, thank you for that explanation.
The consultation which our colleague Roberto Barzanti proposes marks an advance in the awareness of the Commission of the emergence of new modes of communication.
The effectiveness of the measures which will be decreed depends on us being consistent, but we must bear in mind that however coercive they are, these measures cannot be totally impermeable.
The information society is making major demands on the copyright system we have had until now, and globalization has created a need for international rules on the subject.
When we ponder the question of moral rights in the digital age, we have to take into account both the interests of the holders of a right and consumers.
It is a question of maintaining equilibrium between copyright and the rights of consumers.
With the historic and undisputed role that the press has played and still plays on behalf of democracy, freedom and human rights as our starting point, we have drawn up this report with the aim of, on the one hand, recalling to mind this special role of the press and, on the other hand, of instigating a broader dialogue on the new framework that is being worked out for the press in the new and particularly significant communication environment of the information society.
Believing firmly in the educational role of the press, particularly of some publications with a purely educational, cultural, scientific or other specialist content, we stress the need to support a European policy which will bring the press closer to young people, even starting in the schools.
It is also necessary for the Commission and the Member States to encourage dialogue between journalists and their social partners on issues such as working conditions, new forms of employment and intellectual rights in the context of the information society.
Mr President, I hope that this effort, which began in our Parliament, will go on to find a broader response.
Finally, many thanks to my colleagues on the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and to all of you in the House for your attention.
A difficult situation is emerging for the press from its competition with the new communication services.
That is a main cause of worry for the press.
I welcome, therefore, the fact that with this initiative report the question of the effects of new technology on the press has been touched on for the first time in the European Parliament.
For these reasons we believe that recital W and paragraph 9 are wrong.
In Britain we certainly have a very dynamic press, sometimes some would say too dynamic.
But that vitality and growth are achieved by free enterprise, encouraging initiative and adopting the use of the new technologies.
The Times I can buy in London for 35p - I apologise for its headline about banning Labour MEPs - costs 400 % more when I buy it in France.
Paragraph 16 calls for the Commission to submit the draft directive on media ownership so that we can be sure we protect press pluralism across Europe.
After the latest merger with Wolters-Kluwer the shareholders of Elsevier Read were rejoicing over a concentration of power in the field of scientific publications.
In my country the written press is controlled by four large concerns.
The new communication methods, like the Internet, offer unprecedented opportunities for disseminating and communicating information.
You can read a book but you can also read from a screen and disseminate information that way.
In the report the new technologies are described as a threat to the press.
In the digital age knowledge and access are essential to prosperity and democracy.
Journalists have to educate themselves in the new technologies and use them in their work.
The new media offer a number of ways of handling the supply of news in an innovative manner and it is this Parliament's task and responsibility to support such developments.
This constitutes unfair competition as regards the absorption of advertising allocations, for example, where this directive is most aggressively violated.
Finally, Mr President, we can also help through the exchange of journalists and newspaper owners, through getting to know them and through them getting to know each other, and through supporting forms of collaboration for the production of different types of newspapers etc.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur rightly wants to defend the democratization of information by the press, at least keeping a certain status for the press against audio-visual competition.
But on the contrary, in most European countries, we are watching a retreat of democracy and pluralism in the press, because of two concomitant phenomena: on the one hand, the concentration of supply, and on the other, the weakening of demand.
Throughout this economic phenomenon, we find increasing uniformity and increasing control of political power over the press.
One could quote several examples, notably the press campaign which was waged in the West during the war against Iraq, which was really worthy of the most extraordinary brainwashing which has been seen for many years.
There is also the weakening of demand, because a large part of the population reads less and less, or at least reading is becoming again the privilege of an elite.
The European Community should create the situation where newspapers can more easily open correspondents' offices worldwide.
This type of cooperation is also needed between the electronic media and the traditional media.
Opposite that is the problem of media concentration; in my view this has to be resolved quickly by legislation, which we are awaiting.
The information society is a product of human ingenuity which makes new instruments and opportunities available to us to improve our quality of life.
The Commission, the businesses in the multiple sectors which now produce information and professionals in those sectors must make it a priority to establish an urgent dialogue in order to find ways and means of harmonising the printed press with the new media.
The democratic character of life in Europe demands the continuity and strengthening of the printed press, even if not all the printed press contributes to this.
The Daskalaki report is a contribution in that respect.
On the one hand, the essential role of the written press for the functioning of democracy, for pluralism, for human rights, as Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer very rightly commented just now.
Nevertheless, the Commission is worried about the consequences of development of new information technologies for the equilibrium of the written press.
The opinion of the Commission has always been that knowledge, information and culture are not merely products, they are not just cream or milk which can be compared to other commercial products.
Second, the Commission has always defended the necessity of preserving pluralism, and of avoiding new forms of concentration or monopoly in the ownership of the media.
We are going to examine it all in detail, and the Commission is going to initiate a broad dialogue in order, on the one hand, to create the necessary conditions to broaden the debate on the new needs of the written press, and on the other hand, to study the problems which are set by the development of the information society.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Madam President, this report springs from the major debate on the Television without Frontiers Directive, which we had in this Chamber last year.
I also deplore the fact that two separate directorates of the Commission were called on to make reports on new services and the Internet, although their convergence is plain to all.
Finally, if you look at paragraph 25 of my report you will see that we are asking for an appropriate legal framework in each new service, balancing the interests and responsibilities of providers, consumers and the Member States alike on the experience of over 75 years of regulation in radio and television-broadcasting.
We say no to that: culture and technology, content and concern always need to be kept in balance.
Therefore, it is not just self-control, which remains a fundamental approach, voluntary self-control, which is rightly mentioned in paragraph 14, but also regulatory intervention which obviously does not mean censorship, but control, responsibility assumed by all those who, in providing these new services, should do so in the most correct manner and preventing them from conveying harmful messages and messages detrimental to the development of personality and offensive to human dignity.
But that is inevitable, because we had a very good and balanced discussion on this subject in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media.
Electronic information is really no different from the traditional forms of information.
It is important to make a clear distinction between what is forbidden and what is undesirable.
And I disagree with some of my colleagues who say that there is nothing new.
It is important to note that the preamble to the Treaty on European Union makes a direct reference to the European Convention on Human Rights, which among other things establishes the freedom of speech.
This right must be a guiding principle in our work.
Madam President, at first sight I welcome the fact that the Commission and Parliament are devoting their attention to protection against harmful media products.
The self-regulation of the audiovisual sector advocated by the Commission must be coupled with strict minimum standards of punishability.
And because producers have a tendency to go as far as possible, provision must be made for effective, heavy penalties for producers who transgress.
Finally a point which my colleague Leen van der Waal has already emphasized in the discussion of the Pradier report on illegal and harmful material on the Internet.
But we have a problem here.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the speed with which information technology and new services develop indeed demands a rapid reaction by legislators, in order to prevent abuse.
For this reason parents must be included much more in media education.
The awareness of all participants can be raised in this way and we can effectively prevent damage to our children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new audio-visual and information services open up new possibilities for Europe to develop actions in the field of education and access to training and culture.
In this perspective, the Green Paper on protection of minors and of human dignity was approved by the Commission on 16 October 1996, just a year ago, to start a broad debate on one essential question: the protection of minors and human dignity in the audio-visual and information services of television and the Internet.
Thank you, Mr Whitehead, for your excellent report, on which I congratulate you.
First aspect: the debates which accompanied the issue of the Green Paper showed the interest of all parties concerned in an ethical approach to the information society.
The protection of minors and of human dignity is an indispensable condition of establishing a climate of confidence which is favourable to the development of new services.
The second aspect which your report illuminates concerns what the European Union must do.
The European Union, while taking account of the diversity of national cultural sensitivities and strictly observing the principle of subsidiarity, must promote a minimal consistency of the national frameworks of self-regulation.
It is indispensable: self-regulation, yes, but matched by evaluation.
And self-regulation does not mean that in the end there will be no regulation, but we must not go too fast in this matter.
It is also essential to promote legal, responsible use of the information and communication services.
Article K of the Treaty on European Union allows us to develop cooperation in the identification of illegal content and the prosecution of its authors.
The Commission favours this and will endeavour to do it.
The Commission, with all the interested parties, will study this aspect, while of course taking account of cultural diversity.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Madam President, the object of the proposal for a decision that we are now examining is to establish an action programme to improve awareness of Community law for those professions directly involved in the administration of justice.
The first thing that I should like to say is that the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which consists of 23 amendments and was adopted unanimously in committee, endorses the principles, content and objectives set out by the Commission.
Indeed, in paragraph 31 of Parliament's resolution of 13 February 1996 - the Anastassopoulos report - Parliament called on the Commission to establish a training and information programme for the legal professions most involved in the administration of justice in order to improve their awareness of Community law, with a view to enhancing the effective and uniform application of Community law by the Member States' legal systems.
From the point of view of the coherence of Community action, the Robert Schuman project complements other programmes carried out previously, such as the Leonardo da Vinci, Jean Monnet and Grotius programmes.
The reason justifying this choice of legal base is the need to set the Robert Schuman project within the framework of global arrangements for the rigorous and effective application of Community law.
And the fact is, Madam President, that internal market legislation is now so wide-ranging that the efforts of the Community institutions to control its application are insufficient on their own.
Unless the professions most directly involved in the administration of justice become aware of their responsibility, the application of Community law will continue to be non-uniform, and will therefore continue to jeopardize the achievement of the internal market's objectives.
With regard to the question of the legal base, another approach would be to opt for articles 127 or 128.
However, the Committee on Legal Affairs' deliberations led them to three conclusions: firstly, this is not the first time that the Commission has proposed a training programme under article 100a.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights therefore firmly maintains that article 100a should be the legal base.
Furthermore, the 23 amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs seek to improve the definition of the project's scope, so that the legal base of article 100a is applied to those professions involved in the administration of justice.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a delegate of a country which has only been a member of the European Union for two years, I long held the opinion that ignorance or poor knowledge of Community law was an Austrian speciality.
Lack of knowledge of Community law amongst lawyers, judges and public prosecutors is not just a problem for the professionalism of these professions, but also a risk for the ordinary citizen, for businesses and for the functioning of the internal market.
Previously existing programmes, such as Leonardo, the Grotius programme or the very successful Jean Monnet programme have not covered all their important objective groups sufficiently well.
All these efforts must be complemented by constant attempts to achieve better understanding of, and easier access to, Community law.
I hope that particularly the office for EU Publications, which has made some interesting suggestions here, will also be successful in putting the proposals into operation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Robert Schuman project has a clear purpose: to improve the application of Community law in the Union - not to train magistrates - by increased awareness by the legal professions in Europe.
The Parliament has always emphasized that improvement of the awareness of the legal professions is an indispensable condition for the better application of the rule of Community law.
For the good application of this law, and particularly for the good functioning of the internal market, it is essential that citizens everywhere should be able to know their rights and benefit from the rights which the Community legal order confers on them.
Indeed, what is important is article 100A, since the purpose of this action is effective and uniform application of the rule of Community law, which is a condition of the good functioning of the internal market.
The debate is closed.
