Mrs Roth, we shall discuss the matter at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, as you wish, but as far as this morning and the topical and urgent debate are concerned, Parliament has taken its decision and will abide by that decision.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council to be held in Florence in two days' time is of special significance for the future of our Union.
Moreover, my tour of European capitals has confirmed to me that all the governments and all the social partners are more than ever aware that the highest priority must be given to the fight against unemployment.
The approach outlined in my proposal for the Confidence Pact has been welcomed in the great majority of capitals.
The conclusions of this conference totally agree with the Commission's communication and correspond exactly to the spirit of my proposal, seeking a mobilization of all those involved and an assumption of responsibility at all levels.
Some real progress must be made before the end of the year in order to complete and improve it.
The Commission has made its proposal in line with this reasoning and I ask the European Council to be faithful to the same reasoning, which in any case follows from its previous decisions.
The third line of action to be followed is to speed up reform of the system of employment through closer monitoring of the implementation of the Essen priorities, by activating national employment policies and opening up large sites for future employment.
Let us not make the mistake of thinking we have plenty of time or that we can calmly await clarification of the political situation in this or that Member State.
This awareness must be transformed into a new impetus that the European Council should give to the work.
The political will expressed at the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference in Turin on 29 March must be confirmed.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the third important subject for the European Council in Florence is the so-called 'mad cow' crisis that has shaken the Union over the last few months.
Our farmers throughout the Union have suffered serious financial losses, consumer confidence has been undermined, our institutions have been paralysed and the damage caused by the crisis is severe.
The European Council offers the chance of a turning point, a chance that must be seized.
Yesterday evening, the European Commission set out its position, which it will formulate in a document for Florence at the request of the General Affairs Council.
The Commission for its part will contribute fully to the search for a solution to the crisis.
Without this commitment, there will be no agreement in Florence! (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have restricted myself to the three topics that in my opinion are matters of priority for Florence, but I also express the hope that the European Council will ensure that everything is in place so that, at its next meeting, it can take the decisions necessary, according to the agreed programme, to move towards the introduction of the single currency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Florence European Council will be the culmination of the Italian presidency's term and the government of my country is approaching this important appointment in full awareness of the responsibility facing us, but also of the significance and value of the work that has been done since last January.
The Florence Council will mark an important stage in the approach to and preparation for the great deadlines that await the Union.
I think the European Parliament is in a better position than any other European Union institution to interpret the citizens' need to understand the opportunities and limits of the process of integration more fully, and mobilize the consensus needed to achieve the progress and deepening which can allow our countries to consolidate the advantages obtained in this half-century of democracy, peace, stability and widespread prosperity.
The Turin European Council, a crucial episode in the Italian presidency's term, set an agenda for the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
At Florence the initial stages of the negotiations need to be evaluated and, in particular, the trains of thought being pursued must be more precisely defined so that the necessary compromises can be found on some of the more controversial issues, such as the definition of fundamental rights and rights of citizenship, the adaptation of the institutional system with a view to the future enlargements, the possibility of introducing strengthened forms of cooperation into the Treaty, the inclusion of a specific chapter on employment, radical improvement of European action on justice and home affairs, a more coherent, solid and effective structure for foreign and security policy, and simplification of the Treaty to make it easier to understand, giving due emphasis to the principles of subsidiarity and transparency.
I am especially thinking of the third pillar, where Union citizens expect a specific response in terms of guarantees of their security and respect of their rights.
But I am also thinking of the chapter on the common foreign and security policy, which must also make progress as part of the new prospects opened up for European defence by the NATO ministerial meeting in Berlin.
The understanding reached at this very important meeting, on the possibility of the Western European Union using NATO resources for its own peacekeeping operations, constitutes further confirmation that the concept of a European security and defence identity is complementary to the essential transatlantic link which must be seen as part of a coherent plan for stability and security in Europe.
It is now up to the conference to draw the consequences for the European Union of its relationship with the Western European Union.
In its conclusions the Turin European Council agreed the methods for associating the European Parliament with the work of the conference in terms less ambitious than the presidency had hoped, certainly, but nevertheless representing significant progress compared with the position the last time reform of the Treaty was negotiated.
But from the discussions in Florence must above all emerge a firm and unequivocal sign that the pace of the work is accelerating and the stage of mere repetition of national positions in which some delegations still unfortunately indulge is over.
The slowdown in economic growth at the end of 1995 and the start of this year have made the fight against unemployment even more dramatic, if that were possible.
The Italian presidency has been able to avail itself of the quality and quantity of the work carried out by the Commission, and in particular of President Santer's proposal for an employment confidence pact aimed at giving this issue maximum priority at the Florence European Council.
The rationalization of expenditure must take place in a general framework which naturally promotes the search for competitiveness, through the completion and consolidation of the single market, the liberalization of services, wage flexibility and moderation, the development of active employment and training policies, and taking full advantage of joint planning by the social partners.
The Madrid European Council specified the route to achieving economic and monetary union, based on the criteria and timetables laid down in the Treaty.
During our presidency, preparations for the move to the single currency have continued, both through the now tested procedures of macro-economic guidance and multilateral surveillance, and through deeper examination of the delicate issues involved in strengthening budgetary discipline during the third stage of monetary union and relations between the Euro and the currencies of Member States not in a position to participate in stage 3 on 1 January 1999.
It is no accident that not one Member State has called for the debate on economic and monetary union to be re-opened in the process of reforming the Treaty.
The European Council will essentially be called on to discuss the outstanding issues of extradition and EUROPOL.
The Italian presidency has made every effort to meet the deadline of 30 June set in Cannes for resolving the problem of the Court of Justice's powers under the EUROPOL Convention.
So the matter must be discussed at the European Council, when the presidency intends to emphasize once again the serious political damage done to the Union as a whole by a lack of decision-making capacity.
This route will make it easier to resolve some serious outstanding problems like free movement of persons.
The second consideration is the responsible handling of issues involving consumer protection and public health.
The decision to raise the ban on certain by-products taken by the Commission a few days ago, is confirmation that there is no intent to persecute or excess of zeal in the way this crisis is being handled.
I would further point out that the decision of the United Kingdom to prevent the approval of measures totally unconnected with the BSE crisis has turned out to be counterproductive, giving rise to the impression in some Member States and sectors of public opinion that there is a desire to use political pressure to resolve issues which actually require measures based on strictly technical and scientific evidence, as only these are credible and effective.
The Florence Council will also be required to comment on the progress made by the Union in the sectors of telecommunications, energy - the council concerned will try to reach agreement tomorrow on the highly important directive relating to the single market in electricity - social policy, environmental policy and agriculture.
The decision reached on 17 June by the Transport Council on the major networks is particularly significant.
A substantial part of the European Council's work will be devoted to the external relations of the Union.
The objective limits to affirming the European identity may only be finally overcome in the medium and long term through incisive innovations introduced by the Intergovernmental Conference and the revision of the current institutional basis.
Developments in former Yugoslavia will be in the foreground at Florence.
The Italian presidency has sought to keep a high European profile in implementing the peace agreements, and establishing a regional approach to the consolidation of the peace and the future stability of the entire area.
The Ministerial Conference which took place in Florence on 13 and 14 June was a high point in the international community's action on Bosnia in terms of taking stock of the initiatives so far introduced and relaunching the action for the crucial months ahead.
We can also count among the positive results the setting of a precise date for the Bosnian elections within the Dayton deadline, the reaffirmation of the international commitment to restructuring, and the reaffirmation of the importance of the chapter on human rights and minorities, including the problems of Kosovo and eastern Slavonia.
The Florence European Council will also be called upon to recognize the importance, on the one hand, of adopting the action plan for Russia and, on the other, of the contribution made to the development of the premembership strategy for the CEECs, which has proved more visible, more intelligible and more flexible than structured dialogue.
Here it is surely significant that the presence of the Slovenian representatives in Florence, the signature of the Europe-Slovenia association agreement on 10 June last in Luxembourg, and the presentation to the European Union of the membership application from Ljubljana have been highlights of the Italian presidency.
Amongst other important items on the Florence agenda is the ceremonial signing of the European Union-Chile framework agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Uzbekistan, at which Chilean President Frei and Uzbeki President Karimov are expected to be present.
Florence will also take stock of the European contribution to the Middle East peace process, particularly stressing the Union's role in monitoring and coordinating the Palestinian elections of 20 January, the importance of the informal meeting of Union Foreign Ministers in Palermo, and several visits by the political troika to the principal Middle Eastern capitals.
The European Union troika also played an active part in the Sharm-al-Sheikh meeting and the follow-up to it, seeking a balanced and global approach to the problem of combatting terrorism with a view to sustaining the peace process.
At Florence the importance Europe attaches to the continuation of the peace process must be reiterated and an urgent appeal along these lines sent to all the parties involved.
Special emphasis will also be laid on the great progress achieved in these six months in the construction of the Euro-Mediterranean partenariat, agreed at Barcelona.
This progress reflects our conviction that no project for political and economic synergy between the two shores of the Mediterranean can develop profitably without the creation of a dense network of relationships and common interests between the two societies.
In this context we cannot underestimate the grave damage done to this process and to the international credibility of the Union by the failure to approve the new MEDA regulation on which the technical and financial assistance provided by the Union to Mediterranean third countries depends.
As regards transatlantic relations, we have tried to implement the new transatlantic agenda, approved on 3 December in Madrid.
The consequences of these measures on Community economic operators and the disruption they might bring to the multilateral trading system are causing great concern in the Union.
We should remember and applaud the fact, in this context, that when the Italian presidency addressed the issue of the participation of Parliament in the Intergovernmental Conference, it took a positive line.
The European public - and Parliament as its representative in our contacts with intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations - have set out a series of demands which Europe's institutions have to meet in order for a new process of social legitimation to take place.
With regard to employment and social protection, the European public wishes them to be dealt with in a separate Treaty chapter.
I welcome Mr Santer's words and initiatives in this respect.
The Union's institutions must be more effective, more democratic and more transparent.
We know that at the current stage of the conference, issues such as the weighting of votes, the extension of qualified majority voting and the simplification of legislative procedures have not yet achieved a minimum consensus.
My group today wants to make it entirely clear that we utterly condemn the aggressive and offensive campaign waged by Conservative politicians and some of the media in the United Kingdom against our partners in the rest of Europe.
The British Government has chosen a policy of non-cooperation with its partners in Europe.
For my group it is entirely unacceptable and unforgivable for one government to prevent action on measures to create jobs when that same government has in its own hands the resolution to this institutional crisis.
The Conservative Government in Britain must abandon its non-cooperation policy fully and immediately and the framework agreement must be posited on substantiated scientific data.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, I think we all agree that the European Union is going through a severe crisis, for two reasons.
This policy of non-cooperation has done more than anything else to highlight the need, the urgent need for more widespread majority decision-making in the Council.
These, then, are the two fundamental problems facing the Florence European Council.
There is no doubt, Mr President-in-Office, that the meeting will be dominated by these two fundamental questions.
The most original feature of this debate, I think, was the promise you made on jobs, Mr President of the Commission.
But your statement, your ambition to establish the social dialogue, your ambition to find new ways and means of solving the enormous social problem of unemployment, are especially original and promising.
True, the presidency's work was made more difficult by the national elections and the crisis in relations between Great Britain and the European Union.
So we ask you to speed up the initiation of a policy to stem the tide of unemployment and commit your successor to continue the battle against this great European evil. 18 million unemployed bring shame on the Union.
Mr President, paradoxically there is a useful side to the otherwise unjustifiable blocking of European Union decisions by Great Britain.
In fact it demonstrates to the full the fragility of the Union's present institutional mechanism.
Intergovernmental cooperation is a cumbersome and inadequate instrument: that has been seen and is still seen in the European Union's lack of presence in foreign policy, as witness Yugoslavia.
When the Council opens in Florence, I hope the Italian government will recognize all this frankly, and make it no routine meeting but a turning point in the political history of European integration.
The second concern is the role of the European Parliament.
And the third concern is European society and unemployment.
And we do not wish to be told, a few months or years from now, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, what Chancellor Kohl was told by German demonstrators in Bonn with a large banner: ' You, the European Union, are not combating unemployment, you are combating the unemployed' .
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, the Greens feel bound to express our deep concern about the future of the European Union, because while we are discussing the Intergovernmental Conference which has opened in Turin, events external to that Conference are undermining Europe's prospects.
Given this situation I believe we must vigorously confirm, the European Union must vigorously confirm that an effort is needed within the Intergovernmental Conference to achieve greater internal democracy and establish the conditions necessary for enlargement to go ahead safely.
We have heard that the Turkish premier will be present in Florence despite was is going on in Turkey internally and externally, and we do not have a commitment to MEDA.
True, the presidency has cleared the way for the agreement with Slovenia, overturning the position of the Dini government on that, and will sign the agreement on Uzbekistan: a drop in the ocean, in my view.
The quantity of legislation has increased elevenfold in 22 years.
The Commission should only put forward proposals if asked to do so by the national parliaments.
It is all very well to have common minimum rules on the employment of children, but my wife and I do not need an EU directive to decide whether our son should deliver newspapers.
and I would not least suggest to the President of the Commission that he should open the Florence summit by putting forward a long list of proposals to abolish... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, you have mentioned the achievements of the preceding six months, and you have listed the goals to be achieved in the next six months, but we have really heard very little of the results obtained in the Italian six months.
Nor is it to the credit of our presidency that there has been no reference to human rights in countries we import from, countries which use child labour and where social security is totally lacking.
We talk too much about money and economics these days and never about the deeper political union which is the indispensable prelude, the sine qua non , for achieving economic union, the single currency and a minimum of welfare.
It is impossible, inconceivable, that the unemployment afflicting 20 million citizens in Europe can be eliminated if we do not achieve the political union that will give impetus and power to economic union.
There will certainly be interests, outside Europe too, seeking to impede the achievement of this union, but we are ready to fight for it in the knowledge that despite different cultural and political origins there are people in this Parliament who stand by political union, because they know that is where the future lies, and the alternative is war between poor people.
We do not want oligarchies, we want democracy for all citizens equally, and we also want to remind the Italian presidency of the obligation to act in such a way that all are equal inside the European Union, and in particular that the problems of Italian firms should be dealt with by the same standards as other countries.
It so happens that at the moment we are the only country where a formal decision has been applied on the issue of telephone systems, while no measures have yet been applied in other countries in the same position.
This is a fundamental political issue which demonstrates the capacity of the European Union to intervene in the economy at moments of crisis.
Our criticism goes out to all the governments holding back the work on significant issues.
The joint resolution to wind up this debate refers to the issues on the table: the Intergovernmental Conference, employment, the CFSP, the third pillar, the internal energy market.
I live in an area of Europe where unemployment is over 20 % of the population of working age, where of 100 young people looking for work 55 do not find a job and many of them, long term unemployed, are now well over thirty-two years old.
You have presented a confidence pact to governments and social partners and Europe must be in a position to sign that pact, especially with the younger generation, on the sure grounds that Europe will help them build a better future through its measures, its choices, its greater capacity to respond to the new challenges of globalization and because it is really prepared to gamble on their willingness to make a commitment, their inventiveness, their creativity and their intelligence.
Mr President, we also want to thank you for the very useful work done in the last few months despite the election campaign which kept you busy in Italy, finding echoes in some of the speeches here.
In Britain much of the anti-European rhetoric which has been unleashed following the government's decision to adopt an obstructionist approach to European decision-making has been profoundly disturbing.
Responsible political leaders in London must now take the initiative and reassure the British people that they have nothing to fear from their neighbours in the European Union.
The European Union must also take steps to restore the confidence of consumers and producers in beef as a healthy, safe and marketable product.
It is imperative that the protection of the health of our citizens is our only priority and that all decisions will be based on the best scientific evidence available.
The beef crisis has already diverted attention from important work under way in the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Intergovernmental Conference must prepare for the expansion of the European Union to include the former communist countries in Eastern Europe.
It is important that these negotiations are undertaken in a calm and rational manner.
Unfortunately, the debate on Europe which has been under way in the British media has been characterized by an absence of calm and rational comment.
Finally, the danger now is that agreement at the IGC will be much more difficult to achieve because of the antiEuropean forces unleased in the United Kingdom.
Who knows what the Florence European Council will talk about on 21 June?
Personally I find it incredible that three years after the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty and with a debate going on about whether to make the European Council the supreme body for deciding the Union's foreign policy, there has not yet been any attempt to establish a more solid basis for the relationship between the institution which represents the highest level - democratic legitimacy - and the institution which represents the States' legitimacy.
In my view, a Parliament with any self-respect ought to take the earliest opportunity to put a code of conduct to be followed in relations with the European Council on the table to ensure that not only the letter but also the spirit of the treaties are respected.
As we all know, eighteen million people are unemployed in Europe, not to mention the millions of unemployed who are not counted, and the winds of recession are blowing.
Very little in our opinion and that in the wrong direction, as the speeches by President Santer and Minister Dini today confirm.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Institutional Affairs is quite right to complain about the status quo tendency of the Intergovernmental Conference's work so far.
But has this Parliament done enough to overcome this policy of timidity and lack of imagination?
We think it is time to sound the alarm since, in our opinion, the problem is not restricted to the question of the British veto, unacceptable as it is.
There is a real danger of getting bogged down, of a woolly compromise and of a downward revision of the Treaty, against which the European Parliament should rebel.
There is, in particular, a marked absence of political impetus and of an overall vision, which are lacking at the very moment when the building of the Community has to face crucial challenges.
Are we ready, as an institution, to respond to these challenges when faced with the hesitations of our governments?
My group is convinced that there is no alternative to the pursuit of integration and that this will only be viable on a federal type basis.
Mr President, on the eve of the Florence Council, the governments of Member States still seem to be hesitating to endorse the federalist proposals that the European institutions are urging upon them.
The mad cow affair is unfortunately a good illustration of our drifting off course and the IGC should learn the lessons from this if it really wants to solve the problems of concern to citizens.
Second lesson: States should have the right to use Article 36, particularly to protect the health of their people, even in areas already harmonized, something which is in any case expressly provided for in Article 100a for the environment.
We think the IGC should allow better control over the powers of the Commission and that it should impose on that body a general duty of transparency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, caught between the uncertainties in the East and the mad cow disaster, the Intergovernmental Conference is marking time and nothing gives us any reason to think that the Florence summit will be able to unblock the situation in a Europe whose machinery is beginning to seize up for the simple reason that it was bound to happen one day.
But it is scandalous to use this situation in an attempt, practically if not institutionally, to get round the unanimity rule.
It must be recognized that it is because of the pressure from the Commission that the British government has been reduced, in retaliation, to try to block what it could in order to assert its point of view.
Mr President, I believe that Mr Santer presented the issue in its proper terms this morning.
There is one thing that we must realise, and the BSE crisis has made this clear: this Intergovernmental Conference must make progress on decision-making mechanisms that will prevent a destructive government from obstructing the European Union's ability to act.
I am also sure that, in the final version of the Italian report on the progress made by the Intergovernmental Conference to date, issues such as ability to act, transparency and the objectives of the European Parliament will be adequately taken into consideration.
Let me make a second comment.
The NATO Council, with the agreement of the USA, stated quite clearly that such a defence-policy identity is in the interests of both parties and is in the interests of the development of transatlantic relations, and that for this reason we Europeans are called upon to develop our own capacities, in order to fulfil common objectives for the protection of peace and freedom.
Mr Santer, I am grateful to you for your remarks.
If the Commission succeeds in ensuring that the elimination of the BSE crisis takes place subject to the condition that the policy of non-cooperation is abandoned, so that step by step, by taking all veterinary and medical knowledge into consideration, and by taking corresponding control measures at European level, the confidence of consumers can be won back, so that they feel that their health is not in danger, then we are in a position to solve this BSE crisis.
This morning, you set out in magisterial fashion the order of priorities: nothing is more important than public health.
The second remark is to say that the position of Great Britain is morally indefensible and politically completely irresponsible.
Florence should mark a new turning point: Europe cannot afford the luxury of a crisis.
Florence should have been the moment for all of Europe to take stock of the many critical decisions that weigh upon us, in particular unemployment, as underlined by President Santer, and the democratization of our institutions.
The President-in-Office of the Council spoke of solidarity with the British Government.
They claim to want a Europe that is moulded in Britain's interests: so they threaten to block all discussion of the big issues that face us today, from common foreign and security policy to justice and home affairs.
The British people want to see evidence that they can lead in the interests of the whole nation and in the common interest of the community of European nations, not in the interests of 20 disgruntled back-bench Members of Parliament.
My constituents have suffered more than most from the BSE crisis.
As British ministers should know all too well, it is never right to negotiate when someone is subjecting you to blackmail.
The Italian presidency has actually done well in conditions that have frequently been very difficult.
In my view, President Santer's negative judgement is on the deadlock in the construction of Europe as a whole.
But I am convinced that the difficulties also reside in the fact that we continue to concentrate only on monetary union instead of working for the political unity of our continent, with the risk that the monetary and financial objectives may collapse as well.
It is not enough to speak of a confidence pact, President Santer, because there is no confidence, there can be no confidence in a Europe with 18 million unemployed.
I believe we all agree that all countries must have sound economic policies.
The crisis of confidence in the Member States will have to be overcome.
A priority must be the fight against poverty and social exclusion and in particular the discouragement of the 18 million unemployed.
We are all very concerned about the impact on employment of the beef crisis.
But consider for a moment the plight of the millions of people in long-term unemployment and the many people who have never had a job and who struggle through life in dire poverty.
We need to redress the balance between economic policies and social policies by providing for a social audit of all European Union policies.
Madam President, despite the Commission's honest efforts to solve the BSE problem - and I greatly appreciate President Santer's initiative - it increasingly looks as if we are about to have one of the strangest European summits of the past 15 to 20 years.
Since Turin, in fact, the European Union has moved into a phase of total renewal, a renewal applying to issues and problems which this Parliament, together with the other institutions, has clearly identified and which have been mentioned this morning: unemployment, the single currency, peace and economic growth, free movement inside the internal market, social cohesion, consumer protection.
On this last point we have a problem which certainly did not originate three months ago, which has already siphoned off too many resources from the work in Turin and which threatens to have a negative impact on the work in Florence: the mad cow crisis.
Despite everything this crisis has the merit of showing how impossible it is for us to maintain the Treaty rule according to which one Member State can boycott the normal functioning of the institutions and prevent decisions being taken that all the others want, decisions in this case that not only concern vital interests but are also aimed at protecting public health.
As priorities for the Florence summit and, as it happens, in accordance with the joint resolution that we are adopting, I should like to emphasise the following points: adopting a clear strategy to get the IGC going and redefining the respective priorities, unblocking the resources needed to implement measures planned in the White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment, giving support to the Middle East peace process on the basis of the scrupulous respect by all parties of the agreements in force and, finally, pursuing actions and current programmes in former Yugoslavia following on from the Dayton agreements in order to reach a lasting peace.
Madam President, as the beef crisis continues so the British Government's still largely indiscriminate non-cooperation policy appears increasingly counter-productive.
On the summit agenda will be proposals for a stability pact to boost job creation, measures to encourage small and medium-sized businesses, measures to boost investment in trans-European networks and measures to ensure that the single market operates more effectively.
With 18 million people without work in Britain and throughout the European Union it would be madness for the British Government to block this proposal.
Jobs must be the Florence priority and nothing - absolutely nothing - should be allowed to distract us from this objective.
I want the beef ban to be lifted immediately but I also recognize that the British Government must bring forward proposals which will command genuine consumer confidence.
The events of the past few weeks have undoubtedly harmed the European Union and weakened Britain's standing and undermined her influence.
Madam President, the harrowing experience of the tragedy in Yugoslavia has highlighted the absolute need for a common foreign policy and precisely targeted preventive diplomacy.
For some time, the behaviour of a country bordering on that sea has been generating intolerable tension in the region.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of the mad cow crisis shows how lies, economies with the truth and secrecy create a climate in which hatred, fear, xenophobia and suspicion can flourish.
The Intergovernmental Conference must strip governments of the institutional instrument they might use to play this obstructionist game again in future.
Madam President, three months after its official opening and despite the efforts of the Italian presidency, the Intergovernmental Conference is at a standstill.
The first reason for this is the general lack of political impetus.
The second reason is the blocking by the British Government.
The blackmail by the British Government over 'mad cow disease' is forcing Member States to ask themselves the following question sooner then they expected: how can the present United Kingdom Government be bypassed, how can we progress without it?
The European Council in Florence should lay down a few guidelines for the Irish presidency so that the Intergovernmental Conference does not find itself in Dublin at the same point as it is today.
The new chapter on employment to highlight the wish to put employment at the top of European Union priorities; public services as a central element in European citizenship; codecision for the European Parliament covering all legislative acts; making majority voting the general rule; and finally the simplification of the Treaty, a subject that should be tackled after Florence if we want to have a chance of making progress in that direction.
The problem in the Committee on Regional Policy was solved in the spirit of European cooperation.
But there are more important things in Europe than the Committee on Regional Policy and the European football championship: unemployment, a Europe that is able to act for itself, economic and monetary union and many other things.
There are massive conceptual differences here, between us, the Group of the European People's Party, and other groups within this House, in particular the Socialists.
Jobs are created by the economy, and above all by small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Member States and the Union must cooperate with one another in order to create the framework conditions that we need to get more jobs.
Hopefully this situation can be resolved at the summit in Florence so as to make decision-making regarding both employment and the IGC efficient.
In today's Europe non-alliance should not be seen as a way of avoiding responsibility, but could instead increase stability and security.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an astonishing degree of agreement to the effect that as far as the third pillar is concerned, results have so far been unsatisfactory.
If sovereignty leads to a situation in which the public are deprived of possible protection against crime, then I cannot imagine that sovereignty in that sense is supported by the will of the people.
Madam President, the Florence summit and the Intergovernmental Conference are confronted with problems that show up certain weak spots.
The Florence summit was intended, as the Italian presidency comes to an end, to sum up the progress that has been made over the last six months, to open up prospects for the future and to introduce the next presidency.
To sum up, I should just like to go over, briefly, the main points for discussion at the European Council and the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you find yourself in the presence of fourteen partners who say 'yes' to a Commission proposal and only one who says 'no' , not because it disagrees with the proposal but because it wishes to pressurize the others to obtain their support for another decision - and it cynically admits this and makes no mystery of it - you are clearly faced with a breach of the law.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when more than 18 million people in the Community are unemployed, then the Union, as a union, is challenged, even when the main responsibilities involving employment policy lie with the Member States, and above all the social partners.
The confidence pact for employment in Europe, as proposed by the Commission, is absolutely essential, as are employment alliances at all levels.
On the contrary, other parts of the budget should be brought into play, parts in which there are unspent surpluses, for example, in the case of the Funds as well.
The confidence pact favours greater flexibility, productivity-oriented wages and a reduction in costs accessory to wages.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, we are aware of a sense of difficulty in the initial negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Madam President, in his remarks, the President-in-Office of the Council spoke about the third pillar - and many Members have done so too - and he said that as far as the third pillar is concerned, the expectations of the public must be fulfilled, with regard to internal security in Europe.
And in fact this is correct: the third pillar is concerned with a series of important areas of the policy of the European Union, areas that are relevant to security.
But it has to be said, unfortunately - and we do not believe that it is right - that the voting is still fourteen to one, and this shows that if Florence does not make any further progress on the institutional reform of the European Union, then this summit will once again be futile.
We really must succeed in fulfilling the needs of the population, and their expectations of the European Union.
As far as the present situation is concerned, this means that negotiations are needed on the subject of the BSE crisis.
The European Union needs Great Britain, and Great Britain needs the European Union.
Madam President, I had intended to say a few things in connection with the institutions today, but the speech of the President-in-Office has forced me to turn to something else, specifically to the Turkish Prime Minister's mischief-making in Florence.
It will be a terrible pity, Mr President-in-Office, if the Council undermines its own credibility again in Florence by giving the impression that the arguments of the market count for more than those which emanate from international law and respect for human dignity.
What we should expect of Florence - what we hope for - is that the European Council will give new and strong impetus to the Intergovernmental Conference and indicate that a first draft of the Treaty can be prepared during the next six months of the European presidency, preferably to be presented to the Dublin European Council.
On economic and monetary union, the informal ECOFIN Council held in Verona in April laid down the essential conditions for a good relationship between the 'ins' and the 'outs' , hence the stability pact.
On foreign affairs, I do not think anyone can deny the fundamental and constructive role that the European Union has played in the Bosnian peace process.
And the Florence Conference held last week has, I believe, really made it possible, with the contribution of all, to achieve further progress, involving, as I have said, the signature of the agreement on arms control in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the decision to hold the elections by 14 September and other decisions relating to that.
Finally, I have already highlighted the issues and problems affecting the transatlantic agenda, as well as the Bangkok meeting of Heads of State and of Government.
However, I wish to thank you for the support given by various speakers both to the President-in-Office and to the Commission seeking to make the European Council in Florence a true success and a turning point so that our Union can continue not only to exist, but also to achieve your ambitions.
The strategy developed by the Commission for the European Council in Florence is embraced by the overall strategy that I had the privilege of presenting to you myself, here, when the present Commission was appointed.
As President Dini repeated just now, this strategy aims at making Europe a Union closer to its citizens.
First, unemployment and jobs.
Our citizens fail to understand why Europe, with its huge internal market of 370 million inhabitants and 15 Member States, is not succeeding in solving their daily problems.
Although some people say today that social and economic policy is first and foremost the responsibility of Member States, I continue to believe that a convergent policy for the European Union and its 15 Member States, applied to the largest internal market in the world, should succeed in producing a multiplier effect and giving added value to the financial outlay agreed nationally.
The second problem concerns what we call in Community jargon the problem of the CFSP, the common foreign and security policy.
Our citizens want more Europe not less Europe in the areas of foreign policy and security.
I am very pleased that the presidency has put the question of external security on the agenda of the Florence European Council, particularly after the decisions just taken by the Atlantic Alliance at the Berlin meeting.
We therefore hope that, in Florence, we can unblock some of the dossiers, such as that of Europol, which is something we have been talking about for several years but has not yet seen the light of day.
It is in this spirit alone that we have taken the decisions concerning beef derivatives subject to a number of conditions and restrictions.
Chairman Wilfried Martens cited Article 5 of the Treaty.
It is the role and duty of the Commission to make proposals to this end based also on the request from the General Affairs Council.
If the situation can be unblocked in this way and a political solution achieved, then I hope we shall not need to resort to the extreme measure of appealing to the Court of Justice.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a moment.
As rapporteur I ask that this vote be confirmed, and that consequently we vote against the proposal of the Commission to extend the old regulation which is no longer appropriate to a changing situation.
However, I wish to emphasize once again for the Commission that this proposal was only intended to cover the period from the end of this campaign until the adoption of the reform of the wine sector.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has sent a clear message to the House.
If this is now confirmed, the Commission will do its best to find a solution in this direction within the framework of the pricepackage discussions in the Council.
I hope that that message will be received with generous acclamation by Parliament.
Madam President, at the request of the rapporteur, we have just confirmed our opinion, which seems to me essential.
Mr Medina, some of your points concern the language versions.
Madam President, I understand quite well the political reasons behind this request of the Socialist Group.
But if you look at the Treaty and at point 3, we should read Article 5 of the Treaty which says very clearly that Member States shall take appropriate measures.
The reference made in this particular point to Article 5 makes it impossible to accept that oral amendment.
Paragraph 3 does not reflect properly the intention of those who drafted the text.
We shall not start a fresh debate. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, may I ask you for an answer concerning the legal status of Amendments Nos 8 to 11?
The European Commission has maintained, both in committee and yesterday evening in the plenary, that these amendments are in violation of our Rules of Procedure, specifically of Rule 72(2), since they are allegedly new amendments which amend the original Commission text.
I think it is important to be clear on this before we begin negotiations with the Council.
In Amendment No 5, for example, the words 'doit obtenir ' in the original French version have been translated as 'debe permitirse ' , which is not the same thing.
The words 'ordre public' presume a direct breach of the most fundamental laws of the State or possibly of its own security.
I believe it is extremely important to keep the words 'ordre public' in the text.
I do not know what the exact English translation is, but I believe the English concept of 'public interest' is much wider and much more vague than the French expression 'ordre public' .
Parliament must make its decision on its choice of procedure and of course that is Parliament's privilege.
But may I be allowed to add this: let us stop shouting all over the place that our priority is the fight against unemployment in Europe!
May the IGC move us forward in this matter.
The BSE crisis was a direct consequence of its own political ineptitude and there was no justification for punishing the rest of the European Union for its own mistakes.
One of the lessons to be learnt from this saga is that the IGC must refine the decision-making structures of the European Union to ensure that there is no repetition of these circumstances when one Member State is able to hold the entire European Union to ransom.
At the same time, however, this European Council will take place under the shadow of the struggle being waged by German workers and their comrades in other countries against the high-handed, anti-democratic and antipopular policy being imposed by the Brussels masters in the framework of the Maastricht Treaty.
The acceptance of the scenario for the third stage of EMU and the move to the single currency, the refusal of the governments even to re-examine EMU in the framework of the intergovernmental conference and the acceptance, even by the majority in this Parliament, of the imposition and perpetuation of a Europe of two speeds all make it manifestly obvious that the institutions of the EU are completely indifferent to the real problems and demands of Europe's peoples and are kow-towing to the dictates of large-scale capital.
If in the future Europe is to be a stable and peaceful continent where democracy and human freedoms and rights are honoured and established principles, any federal tendencies within the European Union must be opposed.
As long as the Commission is not prepared to take on board Parliament's constructive criticism of this economic policy, which is based on superficiality, wishful thinking and unilateral opportunism as far as the financial markets are concerned, and as long as it is not prepared to enter into conflict with the Council, and in particular with certain particularly powerful Member States, including Germany, then all the Commission's initiatives, which in themselves are to be welcomed, and which are intended, somehow and in spite of everything, to improve the way in which the unemployment problem is taken into consideration, will either never get off the ground or will, at best, remain relatively ineffectual.
Only in this way can we really achieve a European employment pact, in the teeth, as it were, of the finance ministers' rejection and of five or six more powerful Member States.
The UK's blocking of the ratification of the Europol Convention deprives the EU of one of its major weapons against the drug barons.
Barton recommendation There are two proposals in this report which we do not agree with even though we voted for the report as a whole. 1.We consider that the individual Member States should in future continue to have the right to refuse the registration or the use of vehicles if they are so moved.2.One can of course argue that the decibel limit for heavy motor cycles can be increased from 80 to 82 because an untrained ear cannot hear the difference.
Quite rightly our rapporteur has reminded us that this key principle is established by Article 52 of the Treaty of Rome.
I understand the efforts made by, amongst others, the Community Bar Council to facilitate the practice of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in a Member State other than that in which the professional qualification was obtained.
The more so because lawyers in my country - which has no law faculty - are obliged to obtain their professional qualification in another country.
Because some of the proposals from our Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights go beyond what would be adequate and non-discriminatory, I cannot vote for these amendments and I have, a fortiori , also voted against the report, because the amendments we tabled were rejected.
We are in favour of this report, which represents a step towards balanced regulations authorizing lawyers of one European Union country to practise in other countries of this same Union.
We congratulate our colleague, who has produced a most competent report and has played an important part in furthering the compromise obtained, which goes in the direction of the very clear interests of the professionals in the various countries concerned, France among them.
From the French point of view, this agreement is reached in an area where our national tradition is that of considerable expertise which can be of benefit to clients throughout the European market, something we are particularly pleased about.
Just when the transposition of Directive 89/48 on the general system for recognition of degrees is still in progress, with all the problems described in the Commission's report of 15 February 1996, it is now sought to force the hands of the States, in different sectors, by extreme liberalization.
Luxembourg lawyers do not understand why the system introduced by Directive 89/48 can no longer serve.
Dismay also because the new stage of liberalization will create new discrimination between those who will be admitted without any restriction and those, whether foreigners or nationals, who have to take an additional examination in the country where they will be practising.
A foreign lawyer who sets up in Luxembourg with his home-country professional qualification may know nothing about the languages used in that country.
There are already two Directives on lawyers, that of 22 March 1977 regulating the provision of services and that of 23 December 1988 relating to the equivalence of degrees.
The new Directive seeks to go further by wider liberalization of the conditions under which lawyers can practise in all European Union countries.
The duration of the right for a lawyer to practise under his home-country professional qualification in a Member State other than his own should therefore not be extended indefinitely, but on the contrary should be lowered from five years (period laid down in the Commission's proposal) to three years in order to facilitate speedy integration into the profession of the host Member State.
Better protection of consumers' rights would also have been ensured by providing that, during this intermediate period, the lawyer can practise law in the host Member State only by acting together with a lawyer practising in that State.
As regards access to the profession of the host Member State, the aptitude test has rightly been abolished, seeing that a lawyer wishing to gain access to the profession of lawyer in a State other than his own is required to furnish evidence of effective and regular professional activity for a period of three years in that State.
In other words, I maintain that in every country, including mine, the defence of a citizen should be fully guaranteed by legal assistance from persons properly qualified in the law of the Member State in question.
It should be stressed, moreover, that the vote of the European Parliament for the Fontaine report will not change in any way the very special situation in my country, which has to cope with different legal systems.
Having said that, I remain convinced that the system at present in force in my country genuinely offers the citizen-lawyers of Europe the chance to practise and establish themselves in Luxembourg, as long as they can provide proof of their qualifications in Luxembourg law.
The report is an impressive example of how the policy that the Community has pursued since 1988/89, a policy of mutual recognition of qualifications gained in a Member State on the basis of mutual trust between the Member States of the Union, can also be applied successfully in the case of lawyers' rights to become established anywhere in the Union.
It is also worth mentioning, and appreciating, that the report has also taken on board and applied the judgments given by the European Court of Justice in the cases of Klopp and Gebhard Bahnen regarding freedom of establishment.
It deserves the full support of Parliament.
Hoppenstedt reportLindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Sjstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schrling (V), Bonde, Lis Jensen, Krarup and Sandbk (EDN), in writing. (SV) As opponents of the Union it was with great satisfaction that we read a report which opposes the Commission's integrationist zeal.
We share Mr Hoppenstedt's view that the Commission should not decide on licensing or have the right to negotiate on personal communication services vis--vis third countries and in international bodies.
All in all, the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has succeeded in carrying out a critical but balanced assessment of the Commission's proposal.
I can therefore fully endorse the rapporteur's conclusions, which should be seen in the light of the need for international coordination of satellite personal communications services and in the context of the other EU legislation in the telecommunications sector, in particular the Commission's proposal for the 'licences' directive.
Finally, if the suffering of animals rightly rouses our emotions, then even more so should that of little children, little children murdered in their mother's womb, little Iraqi children killed in genocide, Chinese children delivered into slavery, for the greater profit of world capitalism.
The debate on hunting and humane trapping methods has been both long and heated, within the EU and in the rest of the world.
The best approach for all the parties concerned is to establish clear rules as soon as possible, so that any switch to other trapping methods can begin.
We therefore have to reject the attempts by the Canadian Government to delay an international agreement on humane trapping methods.
If we want Europe to be known as a civilized part of the world then we must act in a civilized way towards animals.
Madam President, I welcome the Commission proposal to support the hard-pressed beef farmers throughout Europe.
The reduction in beef consumption across Europe has totally destroyed the market for beef and beef products.
I understand the need to restore consumer confidence in the red-meat industry.
This we must strive to achieve, but we should never forget that beef farmers, through no fault of their own, have faced a serious crisis since this problem has been blown out of all proportion by the press and the media throughout Europe.
We must do everything possible to restore confidence throughout the industry once again.
Reform of the Common Agricultural Policy will not be furthered by the EU Parliament now sending out the signal that as soon as a fall in sales occurs in any part of the agricultural sector the producers in that sector will receive compensation.
The current beef crisis is worse than anything that occurred in the past.
A total of ECU 116 million of which ECU 9.5 million id proposed for Ireland is a woefully inadequate proposal.
The vote taken today is highly significant: a reduction in additional aid; suckler cows and young male cattle at ECU 10 per head instead of ECU 20 and 25.
It is well known that only the interests of a certain number of countries are being satisfied, to the detriment of the general interests of the European Union.
The matter is sufficiently serious for the governments of Member States to wake up to this at the Florence summit and not to allow the internal political problems of Great Britain to interfere with the search for a financial and political solution to this case.
It is almost impossible at EU level to judge what support might be needed by individual meat producers in the Member States of the EU because mad cow disease hits different producers and different countries so differently.
Broad economic guidelines Madam President, while we are promised with every major new European project that it will increase growth and employment, the report of the European Monetary Institute records, on the contrary, a steady drop in the average growth rate in Europe which, and I quote, ' was 4.7 % in the 1960s, 3.3 % in the 1970s, 2.2 % in the 1980s and 2 % so far in the 1990s' .
It does not add, as it could have in order to give a complete picture, that unemployment is following a reverse curve and stands today at close to 11 % in the Union, in spite of a tiny plateau in 1995, which does not give reason to anticipate any reversal of the trend in the future.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the preamble of the joint motion for a resolution is very enlightening: economic stagnation, unemployment at record level, sluggish demand, declining public investment, depression amongst businesses and consumers.
However, we should ask ourselves why this has happened because there in fact are examples of brilliant economic success in Europe.
All these countries have the following features in common: first, they have a strong national currency within a space of a small country, which proves that it is possible for a small country to have a strong currency.
History also teaches us that the centres of growth in Europe were often small States or free cities particularly in Italy or Flanders, and not large artificially unified continental conglomerates.
Various objectives of the Dayton accords, such as freedom of movement, are turning out to be pie in the sky.
Firstly, it should not be forgotten that the Dayton agreements have been signed - and signed in their totality - and must be complied with in both their letter and spirit.
Many of us take the view - and many people here in Parliament felt that the Dayton agreements were too much the result of a belated exercise in political realism designed to offset the disastrous consequences of this war - that now the Dayton agreements have been accepted by the parties, it would be extremely dangerous to start adding further doses of political realism which would not actually help their implementation.
In this context, I think it is important to highlight a number of points.
Only small numbers of refugees have been able to return home, and then usually to territories in which their ethnic or religious group is in the majority.
And I would say that the responsibility of President Milosevic, who is the real protagonist in the manoeuvring which has led to the disastrous failure to arrest Karadzic, and the responsibility of President Tudjman to remove from political office and detain a number of war criminals in Mostar and Herzegovina, such as Dario Kordis and others who are less well-known, mean that we must keep up strong, sustained and unequivocal pressure on Belgrade and Zagreb if we wish the Bosnian peace process to move forward.
There is not a great deal of positive information concerning the forthcoming elections, although I should like to express my personal concern - and that of many Members of this Parliament, I believe - at the debate surrounding the date of those elections.
I shall end by saying that in terms of actual reconstruction, the results of the European Union's action can be seen in Mostar, although there are serious political problems, such as the lack of reunification.
It would also be a good idea for the Commission to examine whether the mechanisms, procedures, rules and regulations applied in an operation of this scale and with this degree of political responsibility are suitable for this or future actions which we are required to carry out beyond our borders in the framework of the CFSP.
I would say that they are not, and that - without wishing to criticize in the least the Commission or its agents on the ground - it is important for the Commission to tell us which of these mechanisms and procedures will be useful in the future and which will not.
The proclamation of the independence of Croatia and Slovenia on 25 June 1991 led to the intervention of the Yugoslav Federal Army two days later and at the same time provoked war which had disappeared from our continent since 8 May 1945.
And sending in the UN blue berets, whose only orders were to keep the combatants apart, could give the impression of a profound lack of interest in a conflict on the doorstep of the Union of 12, later of 15.
For five years, the Europeans, who love justice and freedom, watched sadly and in dismay something which the rest of the world saw as an illustration of the powerlessness of Europe.
And then came 16 June 1995 when, under the name of the rapid reaction force, the West froze the situation on the ground, before presiding over a withdrawal of the opposing forces and achieving on 21 November the global peace agreement for Bosnia, concluded at Dayton in the USA.
This Pax Atlantica - there is no other possible expression - since 54, 220 of the soldiers come from 15 countries of the Atlantic Alliance - is now accompanied by a plan for reconstruction.
What our Assembly should consider at this sitting is what any Assembly with budgetary powers should do, that is, provide the financial resources to transform peace through arms into a return to normality by moving on to the reconstruction of this region of Europe devastated by war.
On this subject, we have in fact three reports apart from mine; those of our colleagues Mr Alavanos, Mr Mendiluce and Mr Titley which, even if they cover the same geographical entity, relate to three different types of reality, graduate their approach to the use of appropriations and are in fact complementary.
Our Assembly should therefore now take formal note, by a vote that we hope will be in favour, of its involvement in the process of funding reconstruction.
This positive action demonstrated that in this matter the Council, the Commission and the second branch of the budgetary authority shared the same objectives.
As for the Titley report, which deals with the management of European Union aid and the coordination of international aid, the Committee on Budgets has also expressed an opinion which was unanimously adopted and which emphasizes the need to provide credible justification for the resources committed by the European Union.
As regards Mr Mendiluce's report, the Committee on Budgets has also expressed a favourable opinion for the same reasons as those stated concerning the Titley report.
Turning to the report entrusted to me by the Committee on Budgets, I wish firstly to draw my colleagues' attention to the importance of the contribution from the European Union.
Although contributions are theoretically shared between three major participants, the European Union, the USA and the other countries wishing to give aid, it is useful to recall that only the contribution from the European Union is the subject of a multiannual programme, which also requires a review of budgetary perspectives up to 1999 on which discussions have already started.
This is reflected in a withdrawal of funds under two main headings of our budget, as a result of the simultaneous adoption of our budget on 13 December and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on the following day.
I remind you that in December we approved a sum of ECU 400 million programmed as shown in the table on page 14.
The table on page 12 also shows the proposed breakdown for democratization, sanctions, antipersonnel mines and the city of Mostar, the Gordian knot and focus of all the difficulties experienced by that unhappy country.
It is now clear that the particularly tight programme approved by the Committee on Budgets, especially as regards the progress of Category IV, which you will find on page 14 of my report, will be greatly facilitated by proper regulations for the use of these appropriations, which have finally just been proposed by the Commission.
The arrival the day before yesterday of these draft regulations proposed by the Commission nullifies point K in the preamble of my report.
Because of its importance, it seemed to me to call for a particularly detailed examination by our Assembly, examination all the more so because we have consistently maintained that the regulations for the PHARE programme are totally unsuitable and have demanded regulations fully adapted to the exceptional situation in the former Yugoslavia.
The President of France declared recently: ' Recent history has provided Europeans with a good illustration, in Bosnia, of their present opportunities and limitations.
On the negative side is the present inability of Europeans to engage in a large-scale politico-military action on their own responsibility.
By adopting these four reports which in fact form only a single one, our Assembly will play its full part.
They will get a political stake when elections are held and, despite all the difficulties, it is vital that these elections go ahead on schedule.
In assessing that effort we should remember, firstly, that the destruction was enormous: the basic infrastructure was extensively damaged or destroyed, only 20 % of houses were left undamaged and 60 % of industrial capacity was destroyed.
Thirdly, economic reconstruction is not the same as humanitarian aid.
It therefore takes longer to produce results and requires patience.
Given these and many other difficulties, the reconstruction effort mounted so far by the international community has been remarkable.
The Commission in particular has achieved a great deal, particularly in Mostar.
Further, the money has been very slow to materialize.
That is why I call in my report for other donors, particularly the United States, Japan and the Islamic countries, to make a greater commitment.
Donors have mainly put money into specific projects or given assistance in kind.
Money needs to be channelled into the social sector, both to provide shortterm employment and to fund a basic social security safety net.
But only 2 % of the money committed in the first donor conference has gone on land-mine clearance.
It is also essential to make it clear that there is no weakening of our determination to make our assistance conditional on respect for the Dayton agreement and particularly respect for human rights.
Finally, the international community has done much, but has actually talked a lot more.
Mr President, following the signing of the Dayton agreements, peace at last seemed possible in the wartorn territories of former Yugoslavia.
Hence the urgency of carrying out the moral reconstruction of former Yugoslavia and the need for measures which help to establish a just order, based on respect for democracy and human rights.
Consequently the REX Committee, like the rapporteur on humanitarian aid, believes that for peace to be genuinely possible, over and above the Commission's own emergency measures and the priorities it has established in its communication on the prospects and guidelines for humanitarian aid, there is a need for such aid to be reoriented towards measures which facilitate the return and social reintegration of the refugees and displaced persons.
It is a question of healing the wounds in the hearts and minds of those who have been the innocent victims of this war, and providing peace education aimed at promoting tolerance and respect for diversity.
To this end, there is a need to increase substantially the financial resources being made available, to coordinate the efforts of the donor countries and NGOs, to support the UNHCR in carrying out its guiding role, and to introduce the principles of greater flexibility and decentralization into the technical assistance initiatives under the PHARE programme.
This is the European Union's great responsibility, and indeed our responsibility.
Against that background, Mr President, I have a few comments which you will also find in my opinion and which have been very largely adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
We believe a clear distinction needs to be made between humanitarian aid and aid to reconstruction.
Humanitarian aid is given without political strings attached and aid for reconstruction does have political strings.
We have put down a number of amendments on this and are glad that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has endorsed them.
With a great show of strength, we made over ECU 200 million available, and we insisted on unbureaucratic and rapid aid.
And what about the ECU 92 million of emergency relief that Parliament made available under separate budget headings?
The Commission has put these funds on ice, saying that there is no legal basis for them.
If we are lucky, implementation may start in August, in other words a month before the elections.
But we have always insisted that the budget headings should be used in accordance with the budget decision, and that we should not fight out our battles over a legal basis on the backs of the people of Sarajevo, Tuzla and Banja Luka.
The political repercussions, for which you, Commissioner van den Broek, share the responsibility, are most unfortunate.
The return of refugees will not be possible, because there are no houses or jobs in sight.
Mr van den Broek, the former Yugoslavia is not going to do us a favour by organizing itself neatly and tidily on the basis of PHARE and humanitarian aid.
Link the PHARE Programme aid to the emergency aid!
Develop decentralized programmes, place more reliance on the local mayor rather than on a deposed government in Sarajevo, and get your priorities right!
In this context it seems to me that the Regulation adopted by the Council is highly disturbing, in that it succeeds in turning the emergency aid into a creeping subsidy programme for Spanish and other suppliers.
The point should also be made, however, that some people have done very good business in this war, because we are not so naive as to be unaware that wars always provide opportunities for shady commercial dealings at the expense of the victims.
The region - above all Bosnia-Herzegovina - is shattered, its industrial fabric destroyed and its productive capacity reduced to nil.
As a result, the Union's financial instruments must be well defined and match the realities.
The nature of the consequences of the war in former Yugoslavia will not allow total normality to be restored for a long time, and it should be stressed, finally, that abuses will continue to be committed, but that these abuses will be far more serious if the international community - and, more particularly, the European Union - fails to assume its responsibilities.
Since then, the international community has made great efforts to achieve longterm peace in this devastated country, by means of reconstruction.
The European Union and its Member States have fulfilled their responsibilities with regard to a substantial part of these efforts, in terms of both reconstruction and peacekeeping by the IFOR troops.
However, we have not yet succeeded in ensuring peace.
This does not mean that all the wounds in the relationships between the individual ethnic groups have already been healed, and that peace is guaranteed in the long term.
But thanks to IFOR the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina can now venture to make a new start in relative safety.
Unfortunately the situation is still not such as to make this possible without the presence of the IFOR troops.
Enormous efforts will still have to be made if there is to be reconciliation between the different ethnic groups, because if there is one thing we have learned from Bosnia-Herzegovina, it is that it is more difficult to make peace than to make war.
The planned withdrawal of IFOR forces at the end of this year is therefore likely, in my opinion, to constitute the greatest threat to maintaining both the peace and the reconstruction process.
A decision of this kind is essential, because without IFOR we cannot expect the peace process to be successful.
As was shown by last week's follow-up conference in Florence, on the implementation of the peace accord, there are some areas in which a lot of work still has to be done.
At the end of the day, everybody agreed to this civilian implementation, and everybody is responsible for it, just as we are also all responsible for the positive results of the military implementation.
If we were to follow our own ideas, then we would be able to give aid to hardly any projects at all, because hardly anywhere are the provisions of the Dayton Accord being observed.
The extradition of the war criminals is being boycotted.
Yet the people of the country want peace!
They need, at long last, to have leaders who want the same thing, and the new elections could bring this about, at least in part.
Our aid must be concerned with the media projects.
The coming elections, which will be very difficult but cannot be put off in my view, are a first step on this arduous path.
Mr President, previous speakers have rightly expressed our fears in respect of war and peace.
I also believe that the European Union bears a huge responsibility for the tragedy that the peoples of the former Yugoslavia have had to live through, and still are living through.
The Dayton peace was imposed by weapons, by force.
The crisis and the hatred created by the war have not been overcome.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the peace process in former Yugoslavia and more particularly in Bosnia-Hercegovina does indeed continue to be very hard going.
To my mind there are two factors which might have a very negative effect in the short and medium term.
On top of that the Security Council decided yesterday to lift the arms embargo, thereby placing the Americans on the ground in IFOR in a very ambiguous position, as peace-keepers in IFOR on the one hand and, on the other hand, as the biggest supplier of arms to the Federation of Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Two hundred thousand soldiers, or a few more, have returned to barracks, with ordered arms.
These minimum freedoms of movement and communication are still non-existent.
Such a military presence, which is supposed to prevent any resumption of the armed conflict, should also enable these populations to regain confidence and to start rebuilding their own future.
Mr President, on reading these four outstanding reports one is impressed once again by the enormity of the human suffering and material damage caused by more than four years of war in former Yugoslavia.
Whilst the Dayton Agreement offers a basis for peace, given the continuation of divisions along ethnic lines the question remains whether Bosnia can ever become a multiethnic unified state.
It is primarily important that tangible results should be achieved ahead of this autumn's elections.
But we would give precedence to those projects likely to encourage cooperation between the different population groups in former Yugoslavia.
The point is primarily that the Union and the international community should, in providing aid, fulfil their moral obligations towards the citizens of war-torn former Yugoslavia in the hope of establishing a lasting peace here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Alavanos, Mendiluce and Titley reports submitted to us on humanitarian aid and reconstruction in the countries of the former Yugoslavia are unsatisfactory.
The two other reports are also marred by such ideological attitudes.
May these refugees therefore leave their camps in a foreign land as quickly as possible and return to their homes, or to somewhere near their homes, in Bosnia, for only amongst their own will they find the surest guarantee of peace!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, Europe failed to prevent the conflict in former Yugoslavia, has failed to end the conflict in former Yugoslavia.
Firstly, the Dayton Agreement must be implemented in full.
Everyone understands that structurally important problems remain given the lack of a true desire for peace on the part of all the parties concerned.
The elections have already been postponed and questions remain as to whether the autumn elections will be a success.
The mid-term review of 13 and 14 June in Florence confirmed that sizeable problems remain over freedom of movement and media freedom.
That war criminals are far from being handed over, that Karadzic and Mladic are still at liberty.
A second proviso which we, and primarily the Committee on Budgets, would impose is that there should be maximum transparency in respect of monies earmarked and strict monitoring of the way in which financial resources are spent.
Concerning elections, I must also ask the Commissioner how things stand with regard to our help for a free media.
The reconstruction of former Yugoslavia and assistance to the people shattered by the war cannot leave out of consideration the peace process which opened in December 1995 with the ratification of the Dayton agreements.
The European Union has taken responsibility for 65 % of the humanitarian aid and for organizing the donor meetings on the reconstruction of the country.
A rapid and decisive start to the reconstruction of the economic and social fabric of former Yugoslavia will constitute a first step towards stability and thus towards improving people's lives.
The International Conference of Ministers in Florence on 13 and 14 June - known as the mid-term conference - has taken place halfway through the peace process.
Italy's success in bringing together the 45 countries involved in various ways in activating the Dayton peace agreements has led to the understanding on disarmament and the commitment to elections in the coming months.
These elections must take place in maximum calm, with action taken to bring war criminals to justice.
The words peace, security, freedom, respect for human rights, democracy and justice must grow in significance in this region after years of martyrdom.
Allow me, Mr President, to take this opportunity to express my estimation of the great efforts being made by our colleague Elisabeth Rehn.
Mr President, now that it has been decided to have the elections in Bosnia held on schedule it is important to look at how the rest of the peace process is going.
Without lasting guarantees of security in Bosnia and without visible success in reconstruction, the elections will be taking place in a kind of social vacuum.
In that respect the elections are important.
IFOR's role in the peace process is important but visible renewal, visible results of reconstruction are equally important to the success of the huge operation which the international community has set in train in Bosnia.
We must not leave them alone now, but must try, together, to open up a large number of sources of aid and to show the people - not only those who stayed there, but also the refugees who still hesitate to go back - that the reconstruction of the country depends on everyone lending a hand.
We must not get impatient, and we the European Parliament must help the Commission and the Council, not by heaping accusations upon them, but by means of mutual understanding in a difficult situation.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, I have asked to speak for just one simple reason, not to repeat what many of my colleagues have said about our position, the difficulties, the outlook and so forth, but to raise an issue I have already raised once in the Committee on External Economic Affairs with Commissioner van den Broek present, and which is fleetingly covered in the Mendiluce report.
I am convinced we cannot wait for the revision of the financial perspectives to work out an ad hoc programme for the reconstruction of former Yugoslavia.
The second question concerns the fact that our international presence will certainly not be limited to 1996.
In this respect the voices of the countries and the institutions that unite them should be clearer and more distinct.
Madam President, first of all I should like to make it clear that the European Union was the first and last to give help to the countries of the former Yugoslavia in their time of need.
The Giansily report highlights the fact that the current aid comes out of ten different budget headings, and this means that different Commission services are trying to coordinate this aid, using different procedures.
Just imagine: with this complicated process of inviting tenders, the time that passes between deciding on a project and implementing it is at least six months, and usually a whole year - and that cannot be regarded as emergency aid for the former Yugoslavia.
Then, a few quick and blunt remarks: elections yes, because that is better than no elections, as long as they are well prepared.
We must see these elections as a beginning, not as giving up; elections must be held to increase solidarity.
And then, let us not do everything in a hurry and let us not disappear after the elections.
The reconstruction of former Yugoslavia is a task which we should start as soon as possible.
The country is one great pile of bricks.
The refugees now living in other countries naturally have no wish to go back to a country where people die from going for a walk in the woods and where you have to walk several kilometres to fetch water.
The second significant result obtained in Florence was to set 14 September as the date for elections preceded by a very important step, the Mostar elections of 30 June.
Now it is true that setting the date is not in itself a certain guarantee that the elections will take place, but the fact that the date has been set is a spur to all, especially the parties involved in the fighting during these past years, to field all the measures - political, legislative and normative, or operational - necessary to ensure that the election date of 14 September can be kept to.
In any case, the fact that a date has been set puts pressure on the international community, especially the European Union, to do everything possible to ensure that the people can vote in the autumn and that these elections are an essential factor in strengthening the roots of the peace process.
The main difficulties to be faced have already been mentioned.
There is certainly a problem over the war criminals, who must be brought to justice, and I believe that the international community should make a greater effort and show more determination to do so, because this will create calmer conditions for carrying out the stages already planned, including the elections of 14 September.
So I think the European Union must provide the impetus to overcome the delays and put in place all the instruments necessary for the funds earmarked to be allocated to their destinations with maximum effectiveness.
Reconstruction means reconstructing the reasons for living together, the reasons for mutual recognition, the reasons for mutual trust which are not there today and which need to be reconstructed, reconstructing the reasons for cooperation and growing interdependency.
But saying this does not mean thinking peace can be stable and durable without reconstructing a framework of cooperation and interdependence between the states born of the dissolution of former Yugoslavia.
So in this respect I emphasize the importance of the reconstruction and the European Union's whole strategy for former Yugoslavia and the states born of its dissolution, being characterized by a regional approach, an approach capable of making available to all the states in the region the financial, political and operational instruments necessary to allow reciprocal cooperation to grow.
Thanks to the enormous efforts made by the international community, including of course IFOR but also the High Representative Carl Bildt and his staff, the UN, the OSCE, the European Union and the international financial institutions, thanks to this huge international effort a concrete start has been made on implementing the military and civilian parts of the Dayton Agreement.
It seems to me an illusion to suppose that a war crimes tribunal set up by the Republika Srpska could arrogate to itself the powers of the war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
The Alavanos report rightly asks how refugees can be asked to return to an area where their families were murdered, where those who have raped them are still at large and where power is in the hands of the erstwhile aggressors.
It is against this complicated political background that the international community is trying to organize the return of the refugees, to prepare the elections and rebuild the country.
The Member States of the European Union and the European Commission are doing what they can to help with these efforts.
Commissioner Bonino reported on this in depth during the PIC in Florence last week.
In 1996 some 200 million ECU will be given in humanitarian aid to former Yugoslavia.
Current resources are insufficient and for this reason the Commission will in the short term have to ask Parliament for help in drawing on the reserve.
The fact that this abuse was perpetrated by other Muslims makes our outrage all the greater.
The federal structure must also help to ensure the coherence and integrity of Bosnia-Hercegovina.
As you know, the Commission has been involved right from the start in the whole business of reconstruction.
Together with the World Bank two successful donor meetings were organized resulting in total pledges of 1.8 billion dollars for 1996.
To date some 250 million dollars have actually been spent.
It is estimated that actual spending by the end of 1996 will have risen to some 800 million dollars.
The joint report by the European Commission and World Bank which was outlined to the PIC last week makes important recommendations such as better coordination of donor operations and better coordination of projects.
Agreement has to be reached with the Bosnian authorities on project choices, a process which does not always run smoothly.
Nevertheless the European Commission will for its part do everything possible to speed up the rhythm of disbursements as much as possible.
As you know, discussions are ongoing in NATO and in a variety of fora about security on the ground and the possible continuation of some form of military presence.
No decisions on this have been taken, but clearly reconstruction and rehabilitation work in 1997 can only take place if there is adequate security on the ground.
Madam President, just a few more words on the specific contribution of the Commission through the Community budget.
As you know, our aid is channelled almost exclusively through the PHARE programme and the three specific budget lines.
You have recently been sent the draft regulation intended to provide the legal base for expenditure under these three budget headings.
Projects to a total of 16.5 million are being launched under the other budget lines such as Europe for Sarajevo, to finance inter alia the rehabilitation of the outer suburbs of Sarajevo, rebuild the technical college, and a number of other priority tasks.
All this, as you know, is totally separate from humanitarian aid which will total some 470 million ECU in 1996.
The whole of this effort is designed to consolidate the peace, restart the economy and promote stability throughout the region.
As I say, international aid will still be needed beyond 1996.
I repeat, responsibility for what happens to the peace, the people and country of Bosnia-Hercegovina rests primarily with the leaders and people on the ground who are working to consolidate the peace.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The old TACIS regulation lapsed six months ago and there is still no new one.
A British veto is now blocking TACIS, a scandalous form of blackmail which hurts the Russians and the other peoples of the CIS, and this just a few days before the elections in Russia.
All the Member States of the European Union repeatedly say that ties between the European Union and the CIS are extremely important and that the CIS must be supported.
Twice already the European Parliament has responded promptly: to the European Commission proposal on 16 November 1995 and the Council proposal on 19 April 1996.
In the fifteen months since the European Commission's proposal the Council has not once contacted the European Parliament or its rapporteur to discuss the TACIS regulation.
A second series of amendments concern management and specifically the management exercised by the Council through the management committees.
A third series of amendments concerned the improvement of tendering procedures, one of the main factors which hold projects up.
The TACIS programme, Mr President-in-Office, includes courses in democracy for the Russians.
In a way, Madam President, the blackmail perpetrated by the United Kingdom is a blessing in disguise.
The Council has now won some time, time to hold the conciliation procedure with the European Parliament again.
Madam President, my report is short and I hope to the point.
As a practical tool for this work we have the TACIS programme, the development and improved practical applicability of which is the subject of the regulation amendment now being discussed.
In those circumstances, Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the conciliation procedure is pointless!
The criticism that this report levels at the Council, which did not make use of opportunities of reaching agreement with Parliament, has been sufficiently well interpreted, and I fully agree with this criticism.
Not only Parliament, but also, and above all, the Council, must be aware that it is not only the TACIS Programme that is needed, but also the strengthening of control over the implementation of the support measures.
We are an institution within the European Union, which consists of three conglomerations, namely the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
We have made 36 proposals, and 27 of them have been accepted by the Commission.
Perhaps you accept only six of these proposals, but then at least allow us to talk about these six, or five, or ten, or however many you like.
Only then - and I would ask you to really give this some thought - can the work of the institutions, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, serve the public better.
Even symbols, as we know, have their serious side.
On 19 April, Parliament proposed 36 new amendments, which would have significantly altered the text agreed by the Council the previous January.
As accepting these amendments would have meant looking at the regulation all over again, re-opening the debate about structure and approach, entering into another lengthy consultation and decision procedure, and this would have further delayed the possibility of implementing the TACIS regulation, the Council did not think it was in a position to accept these amendments.
Naturally this does not alter the fact that, in this case, relations between the Council and Parliament have been difficult and complex, and legitimate proposals and well-founded arguments have been sacrificed.
Also the progress of the political process in Russia in the last few months and weeks, and the delicacy of the current electoral process, which we naturally all hope will have the same positive outcome as last time, based on the recent first round, require the European Union to complete discussion and procedural preparation of this instrument and move on to making it fully operational.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I seek guidance from the President-in-Office of the Council.
During the last six months, the Commission has succeeded in drawing up a proposal for this pilot project, naturally with the support of the European Parliament, which has made the necessary financial resources available.
The adoption of a uniform electoral procedure to upgrade the current situation by which each country elects its own representatives to the European Parliament by its own procedure is a recurrent issue.
And there is no doubt that Article 138, paragraph 3, provides that the Council shall decide unanimously to lay down appropriate provisions to permit the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage in accordance with a uniform procedure in all Member States, on condition, naturally, that this is done by agreement and with the prior assent of the European Parliament and subject to the subsequent adoption of those provisions by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements.
In establishing the programme for the Intergovernmental Conference, the Turin European Council included in the agenda the examination of the composition of the European Parliament and the uniform procedure for electing it.
At this point it seems to me that the matter is now the prerogative of the Intergovernmental Conference, like many other institutional reform issues.
The United Kingdom Labour Party took only 45 % of the vote but has 75 % of the United Kingdom's seats here.
Now a common electoral system as specified in the Treaty of Rome, under proportional representation, would not only end this disgraceful state of affairs, it would also add to pressure for reform of the United Kingdom's domestic voting system so that Europe would no longer have to suffer British governments elected by only 40 % of those who vote in UK national elections and which are so clearly unrepresentative of Britain when it comes to matters European.
I can only emphasize that the presidency of the Council hopes a solution will be found at the Intergovernmental Conference, not because it is particularly interested in the type of government that rules the destinies of Great Britain, but for an institutional reason which affects the European Union and its future.
We have Members elected on the basis of a similar electorate, we have elections in all the countries at the same time, and so on.
Furthermore I doubt that it would be useful to establish any correlation between electoral systems with a specific political and institutional history, applying to elections to regional parliaments, regional authorities, or local councils, and the system to be adopted for election to the European Parliament.
If we want to have a useful and profitable debate rather than a mechanistic one when we discuss the European Parliament and how to elect it, I think it would be wise to deal essentially with the issue of the coherence between the type of assembly the European Parliament represents, with its specific powers and prerogatives, more familiar to you than to me, and the electoral system which best corresponds to such powers and prerogatives.
It is no accident that one of the main items on the agenda at the Intergovernmental Conference is the reform of the decision-making mechanisms, and in particular how to move from unanimous decisions to majority decisions, recognizing that it will still be necessary to secure compatibility between the capacity of the Union to make its actions by majority decision effective, and preventing this from becoming an imposition on those supporting a different position.
All of this goes to show, Mr President-in-Office, that, yes, there really is an institutional issue.
Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned for my fellow-Europeans in the British Isles.
I now make a third attempt: why, faced with such an attitude, one that you yourself have just described as totally contrary to the spirit of the Treaty, do we not recognize that we find ourselves confronted by a position that can be likened to abstention?
And what arguments have your lawyers so far advanced against this proposal?
And there is some truth in what Mr Herman has just said.
As we all know, information and full freedom of expression through information channels of every kind is of the utmost importance in today's modern society.
Obviously we all agree that plurality of information is and must remain a fundamental principle of the state of law and democracy in our countries and in every country.
I think it goes without saying that it is in the interests of the European Union and all its bodies, including the presidency of the Council, to do their utmost to take all necessary and useful steps to ensure full pluralism of information.
I have no difficulty in agreeing with the honourable Member on the need he raises, but I would like to emphasize that under Article 155 of the Treaty it is up to the Commission to monitor the application of the Treaty provisions and the measures taken by the institutions pursuant thereto.
It is clear, however - it escapes no-one, it did not escape those who signed the peace in Dayton, nor does it escape anyone in this Chamber - that stability and peace in the Balkans depends not only on full respect for what was said and signed up to in Dayton but also on a policy to guarantee the rights of all the ethnic, religious and national communities throughout the Balkan region.
I confirm what has been confirmed on many previous occasions by the Council and what has been said in numerous statements of the European Parliament, which is that the request to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to conform to the principles of international law established by the Paris Charter and by the international conventions on the rights of minority communities to full protection and respect for the rights of the Albanians in Kosovo.
I would mention that it was formally established that the condition of a progressive improvement in relations between the European Union and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is full respect for human rights, minority rights and the right to return of all refugees and displaced persons, as well as granting a large degree of autonomy to Kosovo within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
However, I would like to point out that while the Dayton Accord has no applicability to the problem in Kosovo, its general spirit may, I believe, be influencing the situation that is developing there, if one takes account of recent events in Albania itself, the approach of the Albanian Government to the situation in the region and the general climate of hostility towards the Serbs.
So I think that we should be careful and that the European Union should be doing whatever it can, on the basis of the spirit of the Dayton Accord, to prevent the creation of a source of tension in Kosovo which could take the war further south in the Balkans.
It is true, of course - and I said so myself - that even if the Kosovo case is not specifically mentioned in the Dayton agreements, the application of these agreements requires a wider framework of stability which also means working for a solution in Kosovo.
In any case I agree with you, and the presidency of the Council is determined to deal with this problem in a credible way.
If this majority, the Albanian majority, is punished because it chose non-violent methods, then this will send the message that violence is necessary in this region.
In addition, I believe that elections should be held there in the presence of international observers.
Nothing further was heard of the prisoner until 27 April 1995 when the police advised his wife that his body had been found.
I would also mention that the criterion of full respect for the principles of the rule of law by all those who are either members of the European Union or have established relationships of cooperation or association with the European Union, was confirmed at the Barcelona Conference and in the final declaration of the Ravello Mediterranean Forum, and has frequently been confirmed during contacts and at meetings between the European Union and the Turkish government.
The European Union has not chosen a policy of isolation towards Turkey, which might not have been effective, but taken the line of democratic contamination and anchorage, in the hope that the more Turkey is integrated into Europe, the closer it will become to Europe and the more it will be induced to adopt European standards as regards democratic rights.
A habitat conference was held very recently in Turkey which also demonstrated police methods of dealing with their Kurdish and Turkish fellow citizens.
Therefore, I ask you to refer this matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, because what you are saying is that it is acceptable for Members to come here and ask their own particular questions and then leave whilst the rest of us - who have an interest in a variety of subjects - are denied the right to ask a supplementary question which is of interest to the Member who asked the question in the first place.
Traditionally Turkey is not in favour of a European Union role in Cyprus, but there is a hint that Ankara might recognize a role of facilitator to the Union.
Obviously the Irish presidency will need to continue the action carried out in these six months by the Italian presidency and operate in close contact with the troika to monitor every possibility of a solution.
It has been agreed that Cyprus will be included in the next enlargement and that negotiations with it will begin six months after the end of the intergovernmental conference.
Ambassador Di Roberto has naturally accumulated a vast amount of information which is summarized in a report presented to the General Affairs Council, and in an updated version to COREPER.
Question No 10 by Mr Vieira (H-0418/96) Subject: Poseima Poseima is a wide-ranging programme for the autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores.
The Council naturally concurs with the analysis the honourable Member has set out in the question as to the usefulness of the Poseima programme, launched in 1991 to overcome the distance and insular nature of Madeira and the Azores.
But we must point out, as we have already said in other cases, that it is up to the Commission to present proposals to us on the subject and so far the Commission has not submitted any proposal to the Council designed to extend the deadlines or widen the existing measures to other products not already governed by the existing rules.
Mr President, I thank the Council for its explanations but I think it strange that the Commission should not have referred yet to the Council, for example, for financial support for the extra cost of petrol products up to 1994.
I should also like the Council to tell me whether the feeling is that this programme will continue beyond 1999 or whether there might be an objection to continuing this programme which, I repeat, has been very useful indeed for the peripheral regions of the Azores and Madeira.
But it is not up to the Council to present the proposals or justify them, it is up to the Commission, so I agree with you on the need to ask the Commission.
I want to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the cooperation and availability he has shown us in the past few months.
As you know, we have unfair competition from a football match - so I greet even more warmly the President-in-Office of the Council - and we also have a Provenal party, but we also have some very serious work to do here.
Madam President, I am sorry that this is taking place at the same time as a very important European event between Germany and Italy.
Behind the oral question under discussion this evening there is concern that the idea of free movement of people already included in the Treaty of Rome has not been genuinely enforced within the European Union.
The question should be resolved over two separate time spans.
The future of the Nordic Passport Union has to be safeguarded within the next few months of negotiations between the Schengen countries and the Nordic countries.
The Liberal Group considers this to be one of the most important objectives of the present IGC.
Schengen cooperation is a special solution which should in due course be integrated in the EU and be governed by Community legislation, in order for it to operate properly, exactly as we in Parliament and the Commission want.
We have had a passport union for over 40 years - it must be retained.
The Union should be enlarged not only to the East but also to the North and the South.
The important thing is to incorporate these new countries in a properly functioning legal system, where the Court and Parliament have a supervisory role.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the European Parliament has not let slip any opportunity of complaining that the free movement of individuals, a Treaty requirement which should have become reality on 1 January 1993, remains a dead letter.
Parliament has also repeatedly criticized the ad hoc way in which structures have been put in place at varying speeds under the Schengen agreements.
So I think it is crucial that the European Parliament should be associated with this coordination, because Schengen is very much a European thing.
It is also crucial that the European Commission, as an observer in Schengen and a guardian of the Treaties, should regularly and fully report to Parliament on what is happening in Schengen and the consequences for Community legislation.
Two of these Nordic countries are not members of the European Union, though this was a requirement for signatories of the Schengen agreements.
Instead there is reason for concern that membership in the European Union alone and also Sweden's and Finland's membership in Schengen will create other new borders in northern Europe, such as between the Baltic countries and Russia on the one hand and the Nordic countries on the other hand, where movement already is clearly becoming more restricted.
There is a protocol on passport freedom which was adopted by the Scandinavian governments in Copenhagen in 1954, and an agreement on passport controls concluded in 1957.
This freedom of movement in Scandinavia, which has worked perfectly well for 40 years, forms an interesting contrast to the Schengen Convention.
The cooperation in Scandinavia is organic; it has grown out of legal and cultural communities which are hundreds of years old.
It has not been imposed on the Scandinavian people as a reflection of a pressure from the demands of the market economy for open frontiers.
The cooperation in Scandinavia is well balanced and works without the police accompaniment and sophisticated monitoring which are the hallmark of the Schengen Convention.
Schengen is a police state in embryo, with sensitive personal data held in information systems - which is at odds with many Member States' traditions of protection of the individual and legal safety - and extensive and ill-defined police powers.
The first agreement between the five governments which began the initiative was carefully kept secret for many years.
One need only read in the Italian Government's report to the Florence summit that one of the elements in the expansion of justice and police cooperation is the integration of the Schengen arrangement into the institutional system of the Treaty on European Union, as referred to by several speakers here today.
For Norway, membership of the EEA and Schengen means belonging to two thirds of the EU, without having any influence.
Obviously I am referring to the question of the countries of northern Europe, but it is a general question.
So it is reasonable to ask what can be done and how we can help the Commission to ensure that the citizens of Europe receive a message of integration and not one of liquefaction, especially in this area, from mere intergovernmental cooperation which is anyway bankrupt.
Madam President, the Nordic countries' passport union has been in operation for more than forty years.
Never before has the Nordic passport union been so threatened as it is today by this arrangement.
In the debate on the Schengen Agreement passport freedom is used as a bait but Schengen is so much more than that: it comprises a harmonised refugee policy with clearly inhumane characteristics, it means large registers of persons subject to weak democratic control.
There is really only one solution to this for the Nordic countries, only one solution which will safeguard the Nordic passport union and only one solution which is capable of securing genuine popular support and which will allow us to determine for ourselves the future of the passport union.
The Baltic region has great promise but also entails considerable risks.
Security issues are not on the actual agenda for the Council of Baltic Sea States but in this respect too the Council has an important role to play.
The summit provided the first opportunity for informal discussions at the highest level between the Russian prime minister and leaders of the three Baltic states.
The motion for a resolution to be adopted by Parliament states that the EU and the Council of Baltic Sea States should take the initiative in gathering together all the Member States of the Union, in cooperation with the European Parliament and the national parliaments for a conference of the kind which was held last year in Barcelona on Mediterranean issues.
In this way the resource flows arising from the European Union aid effort and bilateral programmes can be enlarged and vitalised.
The motion for a resolution also stresses the importance of creating better legal structures in the countries which are now undergoing political and economic transformation.
We cannot calculate the negative effects of the fact that these objectives are not being achieved in the Union.
I think we are all, or almost all, in favour of the Nordic countries joining the Schengen Agreement, but our criticism is about a two-speed Europe, more than two speeds, and in open order, with some Member States going ahead on free movement and security and the fight against crime in their own ways.
Great commitment is required of us all on this subject and I wonder if the importance of the objective of free movement of persons is comparable to the territorial issue of Gibraltar or the powers of the Court of Justice, which is also of absolute importance.
Now the convention is blocked and it is also blocking other important acts, for instance the Dublin Convention on the right of asylum.
As regards accelerating the implementation of free movement of persons in the European Union, the Council's organizations are working on three proposals presented last year by Commissioner Monti on the right of citizens of third countries to travel inside the Community, the abolition of controls on persons at internal frontiers and the adaptation of the derived right of free movement of workers, self-employed workers and beneficiaries of services.
Furthermore, the Council is devoting attention to the draft convention on the crossing by persons of the external frontiers of the Member States of the European Union.
However there are still unresolved problems on this text including in particular the area of territorial application and the possible attribution to the Court of Justice of powers to make preliminary judgements on the interpretation of the provisions of the convention and to rule on controversies relating to its application.
The opinion expressed by Parliament on this draft convention in April 1994 has naturally received the Council's attention, and successive Presidencies of the Council have not failed to inform Parliament step by step of the progress made on this issue.
The Council is also looking at the relationship between the Nordic Passport Union and the draft convention on the crossing by persons of the external frontiers of Member States.
It is not up to the Council to take a position on the implications of the Nordic Passport Union and the extension of the provisions of the Schengen agreement.
These decisions should later be adopted by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements.
The Commission has already announced that it does not intend to present an initiative along these lines in a communication to Parliament and the Council of November 1995, as it believes the objective of the communitization of the sector in question is more likely to be achieved under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Conference for the revision of the treaties rather than through an initiative based on Article K.9.
So it is clear that as the Intergovernmental Conference has started its work, it is up to that forum convened under Article N of the Treaty on European Union, to examine the possibility of incorporating the provisions of the Schengen agreements into the Treaty on European Union, bringing them under the control of the European Parliament and the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Community.
I want to emphasize that the Council naturally sets great store by strengthening the stability and the economic development of the Baltic region and, in line with the conclusions of the Essen European Council, it confirms the importance of regional cooperation initiatives in Europe.
As regards cooperation, in particular with the Baltic Sea region, on 29 May 1995 the Council drew up conclusions on European Union policy towards this region based on guidelines in a Commission communication.
Before coming to the contents of these conclusions, I would like to record that the presidency of the Council has actually spoken on the Visby summit in Parliament already, in a debate here on 17 April.
There was also the participation of Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the WEU as associated partners, a qualitative leap achieved by moving forward from the old consultative forum with the countries of central and eastern Europe and granting associated partner States participation with a reasonable degree of involvement in many WEU activities.
What I have mentioned so far is part of the general framework of Union support to the various forms of regional cooperation discussed and approved at Essen, intended to promote the pre-membership strategy and bring groups of States closer to the Union, in particular the States in the area concerned.
At the ministerial meeting in Vienna a few weeks ago, the INCE decided to enlarge its organization to fifteen members, making it the strongest and largest example of regional cooperation in Europe.
The Council and the Commission has entered into relations with the INCE, and this will be reflected in the final document from the Florence European Council.
I have mentioned all this to remind you that the 29 May Cooperation Council with the Baltic Sea States was not an isolated event but part of a strategy on relations between the European Union and the countries of the Baltic Sea, which is already well advanced.
In particular, the Council stresses the importance of integrating the region into the European and world economy through the possibility of trade and investment, and this integration is in the interests of the Union.
In conclusion, the Commission will report to the Florence European Council on the results of the Visby Conference, where it presented its initiative for the Baltic Sea region.
The framework guidelines of this initiative must now be converted into action and the Council will of course make a statement on that, in the light of the conclusions of the European Council and with a view to the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Baltic Sea Council, which will take place in Kalmar on 2 and 3 July 1996.
Madam President, the European Parliament has always strongly supported the abolition of internal frontier controls on persons, an aim written into the Treaty under Article 7a.
So I find it logical that honourable Members are interested in the development of Schengen, especially the relationship between the Schengen Agreement and the achievement of this objective throughout the Union.
On the first point, while the Commission welcomes the Schengen Agreement as the Union's precursor to achieving abolition of controls on persons, it recognizes that Schengen is only a partial implementation of the objective of Article 7a of the Treaty on European Union.
This is in fact a Community objective, to be achieved throughout the European Union using European Union instruments and drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the treaties and in full respect of the role of the various institutions.
From this viewpoint, Schengen currently suffers from an institutional deficit.
Personally I have to say I find it particularly unacceptable that, of the four great freedoms of movement on which the European single market is based, it is actually free movement of persons which remains most in arrears.
That is why the Commission put forward three proposals last July to complement the legislative instruments which will allow us to abolish internal frontier controls throughout the European Union, and Parliament's opinion on those proposals is expected shortly.
On the second point - cooperation between Schengen and Norway and Iceland - I recognize that, at the appropriate time, the Union will have to deal with the same problem already encountered by the Schengen group.
The Schengen Member States and the countries of the Nordic Union are of the opinion that Denmark, Finland and Sweden being party to the agreement must not compromise the acquis of the Nordic Union.
Their involvement must therefore be accompanied by cooperation between Schengen on the one hand, and Norway and Iceland on the other, which cannot join Schengen because the convention is restricted to Member States of the European Union, in twinning the two areas without frontiers, Schengen and the Nordic Union.
I believe Schengen may, and indeed should, also function as precursor in terms of twinning the areas without frontiers of the Nordic Union and the European Union.
The Commission is involved in these negotiations, and I guarantee that it will ensure that any cooperation agreements between Schengen and Norway and Iceland do not compromise existing Community law or constitute an obstacle of any kind to its future development.
Madam President, I come to the third issue raised in the various questions: the role that the Intergovernmental Conference could or should play in the context of the achievement of this fundamental objective.
These options are not mutually exclusive: for example possible integration of the content of Schengen into the Treaty on European Union should in no way interfere with increasing the effectiveness of the decision-making procedures set out in Title VI at the same time.
However, and this concludes my reply to the first group of questions, in the Commission's view, the Intergovernmental Conference - let me stress this - cannot serve as an alibi or pretext for holding up work in progress.
The objective of abolishing internal frontier controls on persons is already in the Treaty on European Union and together we must do our utmost to achieve it on the basis of the Commission proposals currently under examination.
I come now, much more briefly, to the questions on the Baltic Sea States Summit held in Visby.
On 17 April Commissioner Van den Broek explained to Parliament the objective of the Visby meeting and the role the Commission would play there.
The European Union's active involvement in creating democracy, strengthening economies and overcoming environmental problems is essential both in the south and in the north.
The Council and the Commission should now draw up a programme as soon as possible for the initiatives required to implement the decisions made at the summit.
In the Baltic area widespread co-operation is required in order to counteract international crime and resolve severe environmental problems, amongst other things.
The PHARE and Interreg programmes should also be integrated and implemented in such a way that they offer real benefits in creating democracy and public well-being in the Baltic countries.
The European Union's Baltic policy should be based on existing Europe agreements as well as a full implementation of co-operation and partnership agreements.
Madam President, it is undoubtedly necessary both to widen the Schengen area to cover as many countries as possible and to improve the free movement of persons between the Nordic Union and the European Union, provided that minimum guarantees are demanded from Iceland and Norway.
In the first place, to accept the complete 'communitization' of the third pillar today, as the resolution of 13 March 1996 would wish, while negotiations in the Intergovernmental Conference are still going on, seems to me premature.
The Union has an unconditional obligation to look at its citizens' needs in practical terms, but also at their concerns.
Measures relating to free movement and those relating to the security of external frontiers should be applied simultaneously.
Let us never forget that security for us all is as much a right as freedom of movement.
It is important that this cooperation should become a matter for the whole of the EU; it is quite likely that the subject will also be discussed further in Florence.
The reality is the setting up of specific systems like that established for the Schengen agreement.
The reality is also the existence of autonomous machinery for regionalized spaces for free movement of persons like that of the Nordic Passport Union.
But it is by no means certain that it is possible or even desirable to harmonize these different systems and, from this point of view, plurality, originating from a previous historical development, should not necessarily be automatically criticized.
Freedom of movement is always favoured at the expense of security, and it is in the face of this situation that some States found themselves prey to a kind of anxiety which led them to set up the Schengen agreements.
All this clearly shows that it is unreal to pretend that Europe should be organized only in the rigid framework of the European Union.
Of course, I do not think that Russia and the CIS can be included in the rigid framework of the European Union, but this means that that framework cannot take priority.
Consequently, for all these reasons, I truly think that the Europe of the future will be an ' la carte' Europe, which may or may not please those who, on doctrinal grounds, are opposed to it.
Madam President, it is perfectly understandable of course that the countries of Denmark, Sweden and Finland should be seeking to join the Schengen group.
Some speakers here have dwelt, quite understandably, on the problems that would arise from the fact that Iceland and Norway, through not being Member States of the European Union, will be excluded from discussions on the future development of the free movement area if it were to be incorporated into the Union treaties.
I would like to add another angle to that, namely the question of the three or four Member States which at the moment do not seek to join the Schengen arrangement and which are insisting on retaining the right to exercise border controls because they do not accept that non-citizens of the Union have the right of free movement.
I hope that it will not be a permanent difficulty, that one day it may be possible for all the Member States of the Union to be part of the free movement area.
In conclusion, some of us may have to abstain on this common text.
There are certain points in paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 10 which we cannot at the moment fully accept, although I must say that there is an enormous amount in this resolution with which we could all agree.
The Commission is not aware of any provisions in the Nordic Union agreement which might be incompatible with existing Community law or existing European Union arrangements.
I want to dispel any doubt immediately: the three proposals formulated by the Commission in July 1995 are all inspired by full recognition that security is just as important as freedom of movement, which is why a link has been planned between the accompanying measures and the abolition of controls at the internal frontiers of the European Union.
Finally, on Mr Elliott's speech, some Member States, probably very few, which are not interested in taking part in Schengen and have certain reservations of principle about the interpretation of freedom of movement of persons in the European Union, may indeed find themselves in a peculiar situation, when other states which are not members of the European Union are participating, through Schengen, in this great area of freedom of movement in security.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I am concerned that at this moment the Union's credibility is at stake vis--vis the Mediterranean countries because we have approved a Euro-Mediterranean policy and we must honour our commitments.
I think that this proposal will meet with the agreement of the Commission because, inter alia, the Commission itself has been proposing it in a general way to the IGC and we think that it is important that, in that case, we should make some progress in turning human rights into an important rallying point and in a democratic way.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs has been sensitive to the concerns of our Greek fellow Europeans, about what I might call certain territorial disputes which have worsened this year and we have therefore accepted an amendment referring to the territorial integrity of the Member States and their external borders and of the Union.
The resolution which the European Parliament has approved concerning the Florence summit also mentions this matter and it is also in the Treaties.
It would therefore be very positive if we could count, having shown our solidarity, on the real and effective support that would enable us to unblock this situation and, above all, enable us - and here I turn full circle - to honour our commitments and keep to our word since, at this moment, this is now the end of June and we must be able to spend effectively nearly 900 million ECU that we have promised for this year.
Our Mediterranean partners have taken a step and now we must in turn we able to face up to our responsibilities and keep to our word.
Therefore I think it is important that this regulation be approved once and for all, through consultation, at this plenary session.
Madam President, I should like to take the floor very briefly since we already examined this report last November.
First of all, I think that, although this is a fresh consultation, the opinion of the Committees on Budgets and Budgetary Control should have been sought, and this was not done.
Fourthly, the European Parliament - and this too has already been mentioned - has respected for 1996 the sum of 900 million ECU decided at the Cannes summit.
Yet the execution of the MEDA budgetary line for this year is still at the starting-point.
Fifth point: I think that reference must be made to the fact that in the past financial protocols with the countries in the Mediterranean zone have been submitted to the European Parliament for the opinion procedure, enabling it to exert some control.
Thanks to them, with the permission of those whose task it is to unblock the procedure and with the speed that must be applied by the Commission, I am sure that we shall be able to keep to our commitments for 1996 and, in accordance with Article 205, obliging the Commission to deal with proposals approved in the European Parliament, I am convinced that we shall finally succeed in implementing the MEDA programme.
My group campaigned for a Mediterranean policy for the EU and insisted on parallelism between our approach to the east and to the south.
It is the Mediterranean policy and its funding which we are talking about tonight and, in our view, the MEDA programme must be seen in the light of our commitment to the development of democracy, economic advancement and the cause of human rights in the Mediterranean basin.
But it is fair to give warning that we believe that the Government of Turkey has yet to deliver on the promises made to this Parliament before the ratification of the customs union in December last year.
Nor has Turkey made any effort to deal with the political problems of Cyprus and the Kurdish area.
The MEDA programme must be implemented quickly - immediately, I would say - even though one country, Turkey, is systematically creating problems, in contravention of the philosophy and principles both of the Barcelona procedure and of the MEDA programme itself, not only for one Member State of the European Union but also for at least one other country in the Mediterranean basin, namely Syria.
Further to that, I would be failing in my duty if I did not emphasize the special relevance that the implementation of the MEDA programme will have for the Middle East peace process.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MEDA programme encompasses many important actions covering nearly every sector of civil life: energy, transport infrastructures, regional cooperation, small and medium-sized enterprises, and a whole variety of other activities within that bracket.
To conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that my group will be voting in favour, will be supporting the regulation, that is.
This is the case not only in the southern countries of the Union but also in the North (which is where the highest percentages of immigrants are to be found), and they should be as or more involved in finding a solution that, indeed in the overriding interest of the migrant populations themselves, will encourage them to stay in their countries of origin.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report concerns the Euro-Mediterranean policy which fully illustrates the ultimate wish to communitarize all fields of external policy.
Moreover, bilateral agreements would probably have ensured a much more genuine democratic control than the control exercised in the context of the European Union, that is, the control of national parliaments over the foreign policies of Member States.
It is true that in this case the main objective is perhaps less legitimate cooperation between the different States than the ultimate creation of a kind of enormous free trade area extending over the whole Mediterranean basin.
As for human rights, I cannot speak about the Mediterranean without recalling at the same time that our Parliament was considerably misled last autumn, or last winter, during the negotiations on a customs union between Europe and Turkey, and I note that the fears of our Greek colleagues were fully justified in this respect.
There is no need, in this respect, to eliminate the role of Member States in this type of cooperation policy.
That is why we shall vote against the report in the hope that this kind of policy will henceforth come within the competence of Member States, with all the flexibility which that will allow in comparison with the rigid programmes planned at present.
There is no doubt that the Commission backed the European Parliament's criterion and I must say that, after some hesitation, the Council has also finally come round to the idea of a further consultation of the European Parliament, because there would undoubtedly have been one or two points that would have had quite obvious political repercussions vis--vis the original proposal and, at the same time, a series of new decisions that were the difference between the Council's final decision and what would have been the European Parliament's proposal and report.
I share the concerns of the Committee on Budgets and Budgetary Control.
Three agreements have already been finalised.
We cannot go on until the end of the year with a situation in which one party - with a far weaker industrial base and economy than us, after all - has done its duty and completed its work and the European Union has not.
Indeed, in the procedural framework for decision-taking in the new CFSP, as I envisage it, the Commission's position will be that all cases relating to human rights will always be decided on the basis of qualified majority.
If the MEDA regulation had been approved by qualified majority, it would have been a good precedent for the European Parliament and the Commission, but it would now provoke a negative attitude on the part of certain delegations to the IGC.
Many of the tactical positions of the Member States are interlinked at this moment in time, and it would only need the principle of qualified majority to be applied just now for some of them to block everything.
The Commission and the European Parliament reached agreement over financial programming for the next three years.
For this year, the Commission and the European Parliament reached agreement over a figure: 600 million ECU.
It was the Council which increased that amount to 900 million ECU.
You will understand that, supposing that an miracle does take place in Florence, the Commission knows what decisions the Committee on Budgetary Control will take in October, and all unspent reserves will be cancelled, making the situation even more schizophrenic because we have been prevented from spending that money for lack of a legal basis.
I therefore hope that, on the basis of many concrete cases, there can be some lessons learned among the various institutions as to how to find a compromise solution for something that is clearly difficult to comprehend.
That would be irresponsible of the Commission and so I am not going to propose that the Commission spend all of the 900 million ECU programmed for this year because this would not be possible, it would not be credible, it would not be serious and in the end it would kill of any remnant of credibility remaining in the MEDA programme.
In other words, the situation is very serious, Mr Barn.
As for his position on amendments that cannot be approved, I must nonetheless thank him for the Commission's favourable stance vis--vis the most important one and I agree that this amendment does not only refer to this programme and this report, but is a fundamental political criterion for the Commission which the European Parliament has always agreed with; decisions must always be taken by majority including those referring to the CFSP.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Madam President, the Commission has put forward a basically sound and progressive proposal on improving the health and safety protection of workers who are potentially at risk from explosive atmospheres.
The directive is produced in accordance with the Framework Directive No 391/89.
It places three main obligations on employers.
All these points have been kept in mind by the committee when it reviewed the comments and suggestions of various associations and institutions and worker representatives and including the opinion of ECOSOC and other parliamentary committees.
There are some important amendments including the one which highlights the triple responsibility of employers.
Therefore the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has suggested that the documentation and classification systems advocated by the Commission could instead be fulfilled in these circumstances by using current documents or practices at the Member State level.
It is clearly enormously important that small and medium-sized enterprises across the Union are given adequate time and information to bring into force effective preventative measures.
The importance of this directive must be clear to all of us and it rests in the fact that this measure can improve the prospects of health and safety in the workplace with the real possibility of saving lives across the European Union.
In the case of this report, Commissioner, common points of agreement were found very easily, and we worked through it in the Committee on Social Affairs and, I venture to say, improved it, and finally approved it, unanimously, without any difficulty at all.
In order to provide equality of opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises, this directive must be implemented within a reasonable time.
First of all I should like to express my thanks to you, Mr Mather, for the remarkably good job you have done on this very technical matter.
The Commission is prepared to accept the majority of the proposed amendments, in total or in part.
Let me start with the four amendments which we find are not acceptable to the Commission: Amendments Nos 6, 9, 10 and 12.
Amendment No 6 is unacceptable to the Commission since Article 9 covers requirements on both workplaces and work equipment.
Concerning Amendment No 9 the Commission considers that it introduces uncertainty regarding the entry into force of the directive.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10.
Regarding Amendment No 2, the Commission feels that the first part of the amendment clarifies the text of the Commission's proposal and therefore it can be accepted.
However, including training and education in this context is rather meaningless as far as supervision is concerned.
So the last paragraph of the amendment cannot be accepted since it adds nothing to what has already been laid down in Article 4(4) of the proposal and Article 6 of Framework Directive 89/391.
Regarding Amendment No 4, the Commission considers that the amendment can be accepted with a slightly different wording in line with the Commission's original text which specifies that the employer shall ensure that a health and safety plan is drawn up and kept up to date, otherwise the employer will be obliged to draw up the health and safety plan himself or herself, which would impose unacceptable constraints on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Regarding Amendment No 7 the Commission considers that the deletion of 'work equipment' is a logical consequence of the wording of Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 2, and can be accepted.
However, workplaces already in use before entry into force of this directive have to comply with the minimum requirements specified in the proposal and not only those of Article 4.
With respect to Amendment No 8, the Commission is of the view that the deletion of the reference to Article 17 of the framework directive renders the text imprecise since the amendment does not specify who draws up the vademecum.
Madam President, I wish to thank Commissioner Flynn for what he said and, indeed, all my colleagues for their remarks, which have been most helpful.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Protection of workers against carcinogens The next item is the report (A4-0103/96) by Mrs Stenuis-Kaukonen, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, on the proposal for a Council Directive (COM(95)0425 - C4-0433/95-95/0229(SYN)) amending for the first time Directive 90/394/EEC on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
Madam President, in this proposal by the Commission the objective is to set an occupational limit values for exposure to benzene, extend the scope of the directive and clarify the wording of two clauses in the directive.
The choice of benzene as the first substance for which a limit value is proposed is justified, because benzene exposure is extremely widespread and its tolerance risks clearly stated.
The Committee on Social Affairs proposes 16 amendments.
Although in its report the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment does support the Commission's proposal to set a limit value only for benzene as the first substance, it makes a strong recommendation for the Commission to draw up a proposal as to how the required limit value could be set as soon as possible for all substances classified as carcinogens.
The definition of limit values in the report is taken from the Commission's proposal for a directive on chemical substances.
The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment recommends that the definition for limit values as a concept is clarified.
The committee has consequently made an amendment to the clause in question, in line with a recent recommendation of the European committee on standardization, in which breathing area is defined as an area from which the worker takes his breathing air.
The limit value of 1 ppm proposed by the Commission may, if exposed to over a working life, cause 0.5-6.6 more cases of leukemia per 1000 workers.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed a limit value of 0.1 ppm by the beginning of year 2001, and I myself put this proposal forward to the Committee on Social Affairs, but it was not accepted.
I now propose a compromise of 0.5 ppm by the beginning of year 2003, and hope that at least this could be accepted.
What is less good is the fixing of the limit value at one part per million, that is, 3.25 mg per m3 on average over eight hours.
This value in fact corresponds to the present situation in all workplaces where benzene is used, except for certain types of enterprise related to the oil industry, precisely where the proposal aims to grant a derogation with a limit value three times as great.
When it has been known for a hundred years that benzene is a carcinogen, when it is also known that there is no value below which there is zero risk, in other words, as soon as one is exposed to benzene there is a risk of cancer, I think - along with the Committee on the Environment - that the proposal is completely inadequate.
It is entirely possible to limit the working time if, in the short term, it is technically impossible to prevent a worker who works eight hours from getting an exposure of more than one part per million.
Thus, the short term solution is to reduce his hours of work.
Another solution would be to reduce the benzene content of fuels.
We know that the United States tolerates only 1 % of benzene in petrol, while Europe accepts a maximum of 5 %.
Mrs Stenius-Kaukonen has produced an insightful and thorough report which has been done practically through hard work in our committee.
I hope that all my colleagues in the House, wherever they might be tonight, will take a pragmatic and sincere approach to this problem in tomorrow's vote.
It would be a pity if this compromise were to be reached, that is to say 0.1 ppm by the year 2000.
Nor can the Greens accept that an exception be made of the petrol sector, that is to say its storage and distribution, with a limit value of 3 ppm.
In some work situations, even the proposed limit value of 0.1 ppm would be too high.
The Commission appreciates it very much as I do personally.
The objectives of the Commission proposal are quite simple.
Firstly, we want to extend the scope of the directive to a whole series of preparations which the rapporteur has mentioned, such as medicinal preparations, cosmetics and pesticides.
Both these measures represent significant new initiatives in the Community's efforts to provide protection for workers from occupational exposure to carcinogens and the Commission is grateful for the support given by Parliament to its proposal.
These derogations, which were agreed by the social partners in the advisory committee, are necessary to ensure a little more time for some industrial sectors to comply with the provisions of the directive.
It is important to note that the derogations are restricted both with respect to the number of industrial sectors concerned and in time.
The Commission is ready to consider any proposal for a reduction of the time limit for benzene in the future.
Any further reduction could be part of a further updating of the directive in the future.
For this reason, Amendments Nos 17 and 20 cannot be accepted.
Amendments Nos 18 and 19 which intend to reduce the work-time for workers in the case of higher exposure level, even if scientifically sound, would be very difficult to put into practice in the situations provided for in the derogations.
The Commission considers that Amendment No 10 is not appropriate to the text.
The Commission can understand the basis for Amendments Nos 3 and 4.
As far as Amendment No 4 is concerned, adequate scientific data is not available.
That is a key point and many of you will understand this, in particular the rapporteur.
Amongst the amendments which are acceptable, I would in particular like to express my agreement with Amendment No 16 which requires a uniform, measuring procedure for benzene.
The debate is closed.
