Outcome of the European Council of 15/16 October in Tampere The next item is the report of the European Council and the Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council of 15/16 October in Tampere.
Madam President, Members of the European Parliament, I am very happy to be able to appear before you and speak for the first time in the European Parliament as Finland' s Prime Minister.
I wish to congratulate you on your election and wish the new Parliament every success in its work.
The European Council has approved both the policy guidelines and the practical action to help the Union become an area of freedom, security and justice, within the meaning of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Obviously, expectations cannot always be fulfilled in all respects, but it is good to be able to say that the NGOs, such as the European Council on Refugees and Exiles, have praised the results achieved at Tampere.
The meeting at Tampere was, for many reasons, important for the Union.
The European Council adopted a very strong position in support of the right to asylum by committing to a full and comprehensive interpretation of the Geneva Convention regarding the European asylum policy.
The Union must also defend its most important values against intolerance and discrimination.
The European Council emphasises the importance of more effective action to combat racism and xenophobia, and urges Member States to draft national programmes for this purpose.
There will be tougher penalties for those engaged in human trafficking and other forms of financial exploitation of immigrants, and the Member States will work in closer cooperation with Europol to counter the work of crime networks.
The European Council was unanimous in its verdict that persons and organisations that abuse freedoms and violate citizens' rights within the territory of the Union have to be brought under better control and be held responsible for their deeds, through closer cooperation between the authorities.
The Member States will draft national crime prevention programmes and establish their mutual cooperation and a comparison of best practice.
The European Council also decided to embark on a programme of legislative convergence in certain areas of national criminal law.
Finally, the last milestone I have to mention, which I regard as being very important among the decisions taken at Tampere is special action to combat money laundering.
The importance of this action is underlined by the fact that money laundering has a major role to play in organised crime, and it is closely connected with areas such as trafficking in drugs and human beings, and the illegal trade in weapons.
The targets set for cooperation in justice and home affairs can be realised only through comprehensive action.
The results achieved in cooperation with the Baltic Countries are an example of practical regional action to combat organised crime.
Implementing the decisions taken at Tampere will begin immediately, but it will obviously take time.
Madam President, if you will allow me I will briefly present the most important aims we still wish to achieve during the Finnish Presidency.
I am convinced that, on the basis of the proposals announced by the Commission on 13 October, it will be possible to take decisions at Helsinki that will be based on a comprehensive, credible and consistent policy.
I will be presenting a report to the European Council in Helsinki on necessary institutional reforms, which are due to be approved in an Intergovernmental Conference to be held in 2000.
Over the next few years, however, we require a broader debate within the Union on what sort of European Union we actually need, in order to be able to respond better to the challenges that lie ahead.
In order to become a credible player in maintaining peace and stability, the Union also needs a civil and military capacity for crisis management.
The report that we will present at the European Council in Helsinki discusses an approach to integrate both civil and military means to solve conflict situations.
Finally, I have to say that we, as the country to hold the presidency, wish to improve effectiveness and transparency in the work of the Union.
During our presidential term we have started to reform the work of the Council.
A debate on other proposals for reforms to increase transparency is presently under way.
The Commission may still issue during the Finnish presidential term a proposal as required under Article 255 for rules on transparency.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions reached in Tampere combine a strong political message on the priority given to the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice with the concern to define priorities which concentrate on those issues which directly affect the daily lives of Europe' s citizens.
The Heads of State and Government have thus set themselves the obligation to respect the solemn commitment they made in Tampere.
The Commission, on the basis of dialogue and cooperation with the European Parliament, is prepared to do everything necessary in order to create an area of freedom, security and justice which, above all, achieves balance between its three components: freedom, security and justice.
We are pleased with the far greater emphasis given to fighting the trade in human beings than to action against its victims in relation to illegal immigration.
The Commission agrees with the proactive view of the establishment of a European concept of access to justice as an instrument for people to exercise their right to free movement without obstacles of a legal or administrative nature.
Finally, the Commission would like to single out the establishment of the clear priority given to fighting racism, xenophobia, and all forms of discrimination, which are laid down in Article 13 of the Treaty, as being a very positive move.
Similarly, the Tampere conclusions tackle, in an appropriate way, the strengthening of cooperation between police forces and between judicial authorities in order to protect and preserve the freedoms of Europe' s citizens.
The Commission is looking at its own role and proposes to act by responding to the ambitious action plan for fighting money-laundering, which involves changes both in the Union' s position towards the rest of the world, and also at the level of legislation in each Member State.
The Commission regrets that the European Council has not accepted the idea of a single asylum system which represents, as we see it, something to aim for, but also the urgent necessity of dealing with asylum issues in a collective and coherent way.
The Commission will not stop making proposals which will allow us to dispel any possible fears that a centralised asylum system may bring about in some Member States.
Similarly, I regret the fact that some Member States were reluctant to support the idea of a European refugee fund, even though the Commission made it clear that this fund would not involve any new or additional expenditure.
The lessons drawn from Bosnia and Kosovo reinforce our conviction that it is crucial to persist in explaining our aims, which we hope will happen before the end of the current year, specifically in the context of preparing the 2000 budget.
I would like to suggest that the next debate on the Intergovernmental Conference might be a good opportunity to take up this idea of ours once again.
The major decision in the creation of the European area of justice was to make the mutual recognition of judicial decisions and sentences the foundation stone for legal cooperation within the Union, both in matters of civil and criminal law.
Improvement in police cooperation in practice and growing support for Europol will boost the investigation and prevention of crime.
In this connection our group would like to say that legal cooperation must, however, lead the way for cooperation, and it is with satisfaction that it welcomes the cooperation of prosecuting authorities in the Eurojust scheme.
Our group agrees with the view of the Council that the Union and its Member States strengthen transparency of the Union through personal, cultural, political and economic relations with the rest of the world.
Our group welcomes with satisfaction the composition of the institutional assembly that will work on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, believing that the strong parliamentarian dimension contained within it reflects the democratic implementation of EU development better than a conventional Intergovernmental Conference.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the European Council, although I have made a few critical remarks, we consider the results of the Tampere meeting to be important, and our criticisms are targeted at the fact that the Council should aspire, in future, to yet more ambitious Community objectives.
The decisions are, however, just words on paper.
Therefore, it is very important, at the moment, that we are capable of sending a message of freedom and progress in the face of this type of defensive reaction which demonstrates that not everything has yet been consolidated.
And this is especially important in relation to two issues.
The second is immigration.
Madam President, this summit was highly significant and its outcome better, less repressive, than expected.
But Parliament is not yet a full partner and that must be our goal over the next few years.
We welcome the reaffirmation of the full and inclusive application of the Geneva Convention, and credit is due to the Finnish presidency for this point.
It is very important that the common EU asylum system - which ought, however, to be a single system and incorporate EU funding - should not be based on the lowest common denominator.
We must also be very careful not to whip up racist prejudice and we look forward to proposals based on Article 13 to combat racism.
It was a pity nothing was said at Tampere about rights to access information and documents despite transparency being cited as one of the important principles.
We look forward to the body preparing the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which it would be appropriate for a representative of this Parliament to chair, producing a document which can confer direct rights on EU citizens and enable them as individuals to enforce their rights in the European Court.
Madam President, as one might suppose, given the lack of transparency regarding the preparatory work, the conclusions of the Tampere Council are, as far as our Group is concerned, still disappointing in terms of their ambition and vague in terms of their conclusions, even in spite of a few interesting advances.
It is indeed vital that this equality in rights should be extended to political rights, to freedom of movement and the right to live together as a family.
Prime Minister Lipponen' s statement regarding the future of the Charter of Fundamental Rights may also be cause for concern.
The compulsory aspect of this charter is essential with a view to the construction of a Citizens' Europe.
Madam President, I believe that the EU leaders' recent meeting in Tampere in Finland was a very successful one.
It was the first such meeting since the European Parliament ratified the new College of European Commissioners and the new President, Romano Prodi, has stated many times that he is deeply committed to involving Parliament in more decision-making in the future.
This new interinstitutional approach within the European Union was certainly in evidence at the Tampere Summit.
EU leaders had extended an invitation to you, Madam President, to attend the meeting: a recognition of the importance of the European Parliament as an institution.
This treaty is a cornerstone of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation efforts, and without it, the prospects for progress in nuclear disarmament are considerably reduced.
I welcome the restated commitment of President Clinton to ratify this treaty as well as his renewed commitment to the maintenance of the US moratorium on nuclear testing.
Earlier this year the European Council in Cologne decided to establish a chapter for fundamental rights which will bring together in one comprehensive document all the fundamental rights applicable at European Union level in order to make these rights more visible to its citizens.
The Cologne Council directed the Finnish government, as the office-holder of the Presidency, to establish the conditions for the implementation of this project in time for the Tampere Summit.
Even Parliament seems to have been affected by the positive tone set by the Summit and has maintained this in its resolution.
The Council is proposing the implementation of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam in the most minimalist way possible, by proposing that we give a non-institutional body the responsibility for drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like, on behalf of my Group, to ask and answer three questions.
The summit said in effect: we are here for the sake of your security.
Where the Member States have come to the end of what it is open to them to do, the European Union steps in: in asylum policy, in migration policy, in the fight against organised crime and in cooperation concerning justice.
Thirdly, this summit was important because, although we may so far have managed to translate economic and monetary union into reality, the special summit took the first step in the direction of a union for security and in the direction of an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of Europe.
The second question is this: was this summit a success?
In 2001, when the initial results will be there to see, we shall be able to say whether it has been a success by then, and we shall be able to say in five years' time whether Tampere was a success.
Announcing the results of Tampere as the Council has done here is to fundamentally misinterpret the Amsterdam Treaty.
The country to hold the presidency played an important part in reaching these results.
The results of the meeting at Tampere also confirmed that we do not want a 'Fortress Europe' , but want to take responsibility.
The new comprehensive approach that has been established for issues of immigration and asylum, the European Council' s commitment to the full application of the Geneva Convention as it relates to refugees, and the decision to aspire towards a European asylum system, are steps in the right direction.
It is important to take account of issues relating to the applicant countries as well as regional cooperation in this area.
Furthermore, the citizens of the Member States must be included in the process and we must ensure firmer support from the people than is the case at present in decisions taken at EU level.
I welcome some of the progress that was made at Tampere: for instance, on giving them comparable rights and on the fight against racism and xenophobia.
We need protection of victims and the right to compensation; but we also need a recognition of the rights of defendants if we are to live in a decent society.
The European Parliament could have been invited at a working level to many more of the debates surrounding the Tampere summit.
I hope we will be able to prove to you through our work in the body that will draw up the Charter of Fundamental Human and Social Rights that the presidency and Parliament can work very well together.
I hope that, as we proceed in this area where so often Parliament must work directly with the Council, we will see much more effective cooperation between us.
I think that the Finnish Presidency should learn from this that, when one is prepared to cooperate, one can also achieve reasonable results.
Madam President, a lot of fine words have been written following the summit in Tampere, but the prerequisites of these fine words' becoming a reality and of our living up to the humanitarian principles behind them are that people must actually be able to get into Fortress Europe; that we must seriously begin to pursue a political strategy where policy on asylum can be distinguished from policy on immigration; and that we should begin to pursue a serious policy involving cooperation with UNHCR in solving Europe' s and the world' s refugee problems.
You can do so too on the question of refugees and immigration.
Madam President, we are all still under the spell of the June elections in which a clear, absolute majority was achieved.
True, the Intergovernmental Conference is to get a face-lift, but the basic problems remain the same.
Our conclusion, then, about Tampere: no doubt some important steps were taken there, but these were hardly milestones.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Tampere has been an important step forward, and I believe that great progress would be achieved by using these initiatives to create a genuine Europe of citizens in the areas of justice and internal affairs.
This subject should therefore, perhaps, be addressed again in advance of the Intergovernmental Conference in Helsinki, for a decision about voting can in fact be made simply by the Council and without an Intergovernmental Conference.
The tasks of any policy on justice and internal affairs are twofold: to provide the citizen with security against crime, yes, but also against instances of interference by the State.
This process ought not to give rise to revised new catalogues of fundamental rights for the individual Member States but to legal entitlements in respect of action taken by the European institutions and in respect of legislation affecting our citizens.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me make a final remark about the Pack Report which is to be voted on today.
It would be helpful if you could adopt a position on this matter which might make the decision at 12 o' clock easier for us to take.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I do not know if there will be a spirit of Tampere.
It is also a significant step in the recognition of the nationality rights of nationals of third countries.
In the measures relating to justice, we attach especial importance to the mutual acceptance of verdicts in civil and criminal cases.
This is an essential point, in our view, for this is underpinned by the reality of a Citizens' Europe in which it will be possible for the rights of the family to also be extended to the rights of couples of different nationalities, and not just to be a cause of problems.
Mr President, the Tampere Summit decided that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights must be drawn up.
Quite the contrary, immigrants must be given equal rights and treated as citizens in their own right.
Therefore, there can be no good reason for opposing the meetings of Heads of State as has happened at Tampere to discuss these issues.
The central agenda is that whatever the problem, the solution is always the same.
The issue of asylum, immigration and cross-border crime and the administration of justice impact on the very fundamental issues of human rights and individual civil liberties.
British fishermen and farmers are now martyrs to the irresistible ambition of the European Union.
Therefore, before we even think of passing more powers to the European Union, we must take into account its past activities and failures.
A realistic immigration policy ought, on the contrary, to involve making the situation of migrants in Europe more difficult by particularly eliminating any social assistance, and this indeed is the policy of the American Congress, by reducing economic aid to countries which encourage immigration, and organising systematic deportation.
But for that, we should have to make a break with the prevailing ideology, denounce the media who spread this ideology, such as the ARTE television channel, and, in general, stop being afraid of our social and cultural superiority.
It seems to me to be good news in the fight against terrorism, although the resolution of Parliament does not say so, that the formal extradition procedure for people who have been finally sentenced should be removed.
It also seems to me that the Commission, in accordance with the new Tampere spirit and as the monitor of Community legislating, should ensure that directives to tackle money-laundering are complied with, given that non-compliance with these directives is hindering effective judicial cooperation as, for example, in the case of Gibraltar.
I hope that, from now on, the Presidency of the Council will give this Parliament more explanations concerning the content of those plans.
And finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I cannot understand how the mandate will be extended in order to initiate other plans of action when the recently adopted ones have still not been implemented.
Mr President, the conclusions of the Tampere Summit seem to me to be a basically positive sign for the citizens of the European Union because they address issues that affect all of us, but also, above all, because they open the door to the development of certain policies which the citizens themselves demand.
I believe that it has also been positive to confront the need for a common asylum policy, but we need the funding to sustain it.
We also need to confront the reality of immigration.
I hope that, in the coming days, we will receive more information about what the Council intends and how the measures adopted at Tampere will be implemented.
The action plans approved seem to me to be very interesting.
The fight against illegal immigration also interests me.
The only resolution adopted was to adopt the resolution to adopt a resolution at a later date in order to resolve the problems we face.
The question remains, how can Member States be forced to respect the rights and the dignity of immigrants and asylum-seekers?
Rather than harmonising the repressive laws in this Europe which more and more resembles a fortress, let us establish real status and real rights for immigrants and asylum-seekers throughout the Community.
Any member or aspiring member of the EU should already have in place systems to protect their citizens based on their own common law, precedent and legislation.
The third pillar is a vital repository of national competences arrived at through historic development, reflecting different cultural and social histories of the nations.
The granting of asylum is a precious gift not to be abused, as is unfortunately the case too often.
Tampere proved that the Union has the political will to carve out joint policies on issues which indirectly affect our daily lives, policies which will, for example, make citizens feel more secure through effectively stepping up the fight against organised crime, particularly in the area of drug trafficking, money laundering and the trafficking of human beings through judicial cooperation and mutual recognition of judgements.
For example, the need to establish a joint policy on immigration and asylum is now commonly felt by the peoples of Europe.
I am worried that, along with joint legislation, there is a lack of effective solidarity measures between the Member States for times when we need to address emergency situations, as in the case of the huge influx of Albania and Balkan citizens into Italy following the political crisis in those countries.
The act of solidarity and improved control of migration flows are important instruments in the fight against organised crime and, in particular, against trafficking in human beings.
All of these actions and others as well, which relate to the security of European Union citizens, must be carried out in full compliance with the fundamental rights of those living in the Union, because the keystone of the future area of freedom and security is in fact those indispensable fundamental rights.
And so it is also my hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Council will assign the European Commission the task of establishing what the rights of citizens from third countries are, and that the Commission will interpret these in the broadest sense, respecting the non-discriminatory principle, also when it comes to voting rights, to the right to live as part of a family and to the right to freedom of movement, notwithstanding the fact that nothing was said on this at the summit.
Secondly, the policy on asylum and migration appears to me to still be lacking in balance.
On behalf of my group, I would like to urge that the principles of the Geneva Convention find full expression in all its aspects in the two aspects of the migration policy and that the Commission and Parliament become fully involved in all said aspects.
As well as strengthening fundamental rights, the table of results can provide legal convergence rules with legal objectives and guarantees.
The principle of mutual recognition, accepted in Tampere, must, however, in future, be supplemented by a degree of harmonisation within the field of criminal law as well.
The political role of the Commission and of this Commissioner will be strengthened as a result.
The proposed common European asylum system still falls a long way short of the idea of integrated European policy.
The notion of spreading the burden between the Member States is still taboo.
I am very happy and grateful that, in Tampere, the Council gave concrete expression to this order by establishing the European Police College.
I am of the view that the Council has done well to set the course for a common policy on asylum and refugees but, unlike many members, I am not so unhappy about the fact that we still have some way to go in that direction, for a number of quite important elements are still missing.
I am of the view, however, that, without such a sharing of the load, a common policy on asylum and refugees would be something which might be likened to a large roof erected only with a single supporting wall somewhere on the perimeter.
We therefore ought to use the time we have here and do some further, specific work on this matter.
Mr President, we can either accept and rejoice in the outcome of the Tampere Summit or else consider it to be defective.
It is important because it signifies a step towards a common European area of justice.
The direction is the correct one.
Reliable rules for cooperation must also follow a willingness to cooperate on issues of justice.
Contrary to the idea that our Union should be of an exclusively or mainly economic nature, the Council, following a course of action that Parliament has now been defending for a long time, turned to our citizens, to their freedom of movement, to their security and to the recognition of their right to justice, rights which must be granted not only to citizens of the Union but to all those who, for a variety of reasons find themselves in our territory on a regular basis.
Various political priorities and guidelines were agreed on, and the Commission will have to put forward a "scoreboard" proposal, that is, a panel which will assess the progress that has been made and whether we have met the terms laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, by the Vienna action plan and by the conclusions of this European Council itself, a pragmatic initiative which promises good results and which relied on the commitment of Commissioner António Vitorino, whom we should congratulate for this too.
It is true that there will be greater cooperation and that there were some areas in which it was easy to reach agreement, such as in the case of creating EUROJUST which should become operational towards the end of 2001, or in the strengthening of EUROPOL' s role or even in the creation of a European Police Academy.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as the last to Parliamentarian to speak, there is one thing that comes to mind: you have spoken of the Tampere spirit and I believe that there is also a Tampere signal.
And it seems important, bearing in mind everything that has been said here, to point out an issue which, in my opinion, symbolises this setting for the citizen.
At Tampere, a quasi-constitutional transformation has taken place, because the Council has given the Commission a mandate to establish, on their proposal, common rules on admission and residence, on small claims and many other issues.
In this way we are moving from a shared right of initiative to a right of initiative which is wholly in the hands of the Commission.
But there is - as the French say - du pain sur la planche.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, I would like to thank you for your speeches; they have been very constructive.
The problem for Tampere was that the issue of justice and home affairs is, all in all, a very conservative area.
The question of a prosecuting authority of benefit to the Community was raised in the final stages by the Commission.
Mr Brock raised the issue of the situation in Kosovo and the Stability Pact.
The conclusions of Tampere will improve further the European Parliament' s practical opportunities for involvement and monitoring.
The constructive and active nature of the conclusions of Tampere will provide Parliament with better opportunities to participate in the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
Now the question is whether all the institutions, within the framework of their own responsibility, will put this principle into practice and whether the Commission will actually make proposals for acts on these issues.
Thank you very much Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
I would simply like to thank you, on behalf of the Commission, for all the contributions you have made in this debate.
In fact, the "scoreboard" is not just an instrument for legislative programming, it is also an instrument intended to strengthen the transparency and accountability of all European institutions with regard to the citizens, because it is the citizens who are in control in the area of freedom, security and justice.
It is not just a control panel, it is also an instrument for evaluating the actual results achieved in terms of actual progress in the application of the Tampere conclusions.
The progress achieved will not be the concern of just the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, but also the Member States, insofar as some "scoreboard" tasks will be entrusted to them in application of the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, Mr President, I wish to stress the importance, for the Commission, of the decisions regarding the drawing up of the Charter of Fundamental Rights which were taken at Tampere and which will be followed up in Helsinki.
As the political and philosophical foundation of the area of freedom, security and justice I propose to consider all matters related not only to the fundamental rights of the citizens of the Members States of the Union, but also the rights of third country nationals legally resident on a long-term basis within the Union.
Before handing over to my fellow Commissioner, Michel Barnier, who is going to present the objectives of the Intergovernmental Conference, I would once again like to thank the Parliament for the support given to the Commission in this project, the Tampere project, the spirit of Tampere, the letter of Tampere, but most of all the project of the citizens of this shared Union of ours. (Loud applause) I have received six motions for resolutions, tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2), to conclude the present statement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 p.m.
Report on the IGC The next item is the Commission' s statement on the report by the high-level working group regarding the Intergovernmental Conference.
The limitation, which you will all understand and respect, is that at the time of this debate neither the Commission nor the European Parliament have established in a precise and detailed fashion their position and their proposals for the next institutional talks which are due to commence at the beginning of next year.
Today, then, the matter in hand, a considerable one, is to assess and gauge the state of mind in which we, together with you, are going to approach these talks.
I am therefore going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, or rather reaffirm, the state of mind shared by President Prodi and the College of Commissioners, and I shall be extremely attentive to what you have to tell me, either on behalf of your political Groups or as individuals.
Ladies and gentlemen, in asking three respected and experienced individuals to comment freely and express their ideas, the Commission wished, without further ado, to initiate and shed light on the debate.
In so doing, I am certain that we are fulfilling our role in the precise spirit of the first clause of Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union.
I shall contribute to it along with all the people interested in building Europe, and there are more of them than you might think, working as closely as possible with the citizens.
The primary merit of the Dehaene report lies in establishing what is at stake and giving a real political perspective to institutional reform.
This reform, which is necessary, as we must all realise deep down, is not only and not primarily a matter of time, it is primarily a matter of political will, of clear-sightedness regarding our own way of operating at the moment and its inadequacies; it is a matter of courage, the collective courage that we may or may not have to give priority, this time, to the Union, to give priority to a long-term vision which, as we know, even if it is difficult, goes beyond short-term caution and short-term interests.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking about a definitive reform of the European institutions, but of a reform that is far-reaching enough to prevent the institutions being deadlocked or choked, a reform far-reaching enough, as a Member of Parliament said the other day, to enable further development in future.
It is not unnecessary to hope that it may be possible, by the end of the year 2000, in the new Treaty, to draw the conclusions affecting the institutions of the decisions which may be taken in the meantime, in the spirit of Cologne, for the security and the defence of the continent of Europe.
For example, the matter of the legal personality of the Union.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a brief word about preparations for the talks.
The intentions of the Portuguese and then the French presidency, the intentions of the Finnish presidency, before the Helsinki meeting, are essential for the Intergovernmental Conference to be able to proceed on a firm foundation and to go ahead, may I say, as early as possible, by the beginning of the year 2000.
Within the College of Commissioners, as of 10 November, we shall be debating the form and the broad lines of our formal report which is to be published before the start of these talks.
Recalling the fine quality throughout the entire period of the run-up to Amsterdam, of the contributions made by the two representatives of the European Parliament, Elisabeth Guigou and Elmar Brok, I would also like to say that I think it generally useful for Parliament to be able to have a say and to be involved, ideally, in these forthcoming talks.
Between caution and recklessness, between realism and utopianism, there is, we are convinced, a place for and a path towards the real reform of our institutions, for the more efficient and more democratic operation of the Union, not to delay enlargement, but to make a success of it.
We are therefore negotiating with 12 States in all, and it is very probable that, in a first round, more than five States will accede to the European Union.
As the Group of the European People' s Party, the Christian Democrats and the European Democrats, we therefore say: we want more than was promised in Amsterdam; we want Amsterdam plus; we want a fundamental reform of the European Union so that it is capable of the expansion which is a great priority for us.
The double majority is one instrument, and there are others.
I am particularly glad that our friend Jacques Santer was pleased about this point because his country, Luxembourg, is an example of an efficient smaller Member State.
Mr Barnier spoke of the legal personality of the European Union.
Above all, the IGC will make it capable of functioning and carrying out its responsibilities when it is composed of more than 20 Member States.
Change is necessary as regards the size of this Parliament if we are to respect the limit of 700 members laid down in the Treaties at our own request.
Something needs to be done to take further the conclusions reached by our Member States that the WEU should now be integrated and its functions, or part of its functions, transferred to the European Union.
In adding new issues like those to the IGC we are not necessarily making it more difficult.
Mr President, I welcome the report for pointing us at the central question which is the method for revision of the treaties in the future.
We must realise that it will be virtually impossible - and certainly it will be impracticable - to forge agreement between 25 or 30 states upon essential questions of sovereignty.
So, the key reform is Article 48 for treaty change.
The second reform that is essential is to remove the national veto from the clauses of reinforced cooperation; and the third will be to grant citizens the right of direct approach to the European Court.
Mr President, President of the Commission Prodi was quite right when he spoke before this House of an error of historical proportions if the Intergovernmental Conference were to be reduced to dealing with the so-called Amsterdam leftovers.
No, what the citizens of the European Union rightly expect is true democracy, transparency and efficient decision-making.
The same applies to Article 105 of the EC Treaty so that the European Central Bank might have the contractually established political task of using its monetary policy to promote growth and employment.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group considers the Dehaene report on the institutional implications of enlargement to be unsatisfactory in terms of both its method and the greater part of its conclusions.
In the same spirit, the working party puts forward the old federalist proposal of making qualified majority voting the general rule in the Council.
This proposal, combined with maintaining the Commission' s monopoly of initiative, would ultimately end, as we know, in a considerable strengthening of the Commission' s powers and a concomitant reduction in the rights of States.
In any case, from the European Parliament' s point of view, we must press for the text to include a systematic approach to all aspects of the European Union, so that the new Intergovernmental Conference can address in turn all the issues and problems which concern us at present using the Aristotelian logic that politics is the art of the possible.
Mr President, I see the report of the Wise Men as being a big step forward and I expressly agree with Commissioner Barnier that comprehensive reform of the European Union must now be implemented and should not be postponed until after the enlargement of the Union.
That would be disastrous and fatal because what the 15 States cannot settle among themselves, 20 or 25 States most certainly will not be able to.
This distinction needs to be made, as it is in our Member States' own fundamental laws or constitutions.
The Dehaene Group has concentrated very much upon the reform of the Commission.
The Intergovernmental Conference is one very good opportunity for doing just that.
Mr President, for the cool and collected, the year 2000 is of course a year like any other, but it is not only romantics who, at the beginning of a new century, cannot escape a certain magic inspiring them to rise above the daily round of business and approach their own future in a creative spirit.
On the question of foreign and security policy, the report wastes a lot of time on developing security policy, as well as policies for governments and heads of state, and forgets in the process that security policy is a function of foreign policy.
Mr President, what must the next Intergovernmental Conference do?
It must prepare the Union for a Europe of 27 Member States.
And neither should it mean changing the nature of the Union.
And I wish to say, Mr President, that that is not the European Union which many of us have fought for and in which many of us believe.
The Dehaene Group' s plans are, by its own admission, very ambitious, but these plans are only ambitious in relation to the current situation and existing opposition.
However, the proposals fall short with respect to the requirements of a Union numbering more than thirty Member States.
I am not familiar with the differences between east and west Luxembourg but I know a little about the internal differences of Scotland, and the principle of representation as it exists is absurd.
The principles of representation in Europe, as applied to its nations and regions need to be re-examined, and I am very sad that the Dehaene report has said practically nothing about this.
Some people, including us UDF members within the PPE, are in favour of the new developments in Europe.
But I believe that we are all unanimous in considering that it is time for the political leaders to regain control of the machine and to dare finally to discuss the objective of the geographical dimension and the way forward for political union in Europe, as we did for economic and monetary union in Europe.
In the future Europe must comprise three institutional circles.
The second circle would be the European Union, which would develop as an association of states in the future.
The ball is now in the court of the Member States and the Commission.
As far as we are concerned, and let this be made very clear, reforming the Union is, in any case, still a conditio sine qua non for enlargement.
It was therefore an exchange of views on the basis of the Dehaene report which President Prodi had intended specifically to initiate and shed light on this debate.
We are going to take these questions, these suggestions, and even these occasional criticisms or fears into account in the few days which remain before 10 November.
After this, we shall again have a great deal of work to do between 10 November and the start of the talks, since the Commission will then have to submit a document which I have myself described as a forceful and comprehensive policy document, designed to be of use to the negotiators and to facilitate the talks.
I therefore wish, Mr President, by way of conclusion, to thank the European Parliament for this initial exchange of views on the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and on the ambitions we should have in approaching this conference.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few moments.
We are quite familiar with the slow machinery of this Parliament, where the average time for a report to come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to this House is twenty-one months.
Now, in these coming twenty-one months, we will not be reduced to a button-pressing machine and vote when you allow us to, voting on resolutions which we did not even have the chance of putting to your vote.
If there was a delay in appointing a rapporteur it is because the representative of the radicals at the meeting of the coordinators to agree a rapporteur asked for it to be postponed.
Meanwhile, as regards the tabling of amendments you have exactly the same right as every other Member to table amendments with 32 signatures.
Certainly, the operation of a democracy requires rules, but the honour of a democracy lies in the attention it devotes to the protection of its minorities, and I would want us all to have the same rights within this House.
I must now, before the debate, quite sincerely ask the new Commission to take this first opportunity it has had to express its opinion on what Parliament has said on this matter.
I am going to Kosovo tomorrow with Mr Javier Solana to assess for myself how we are doing, so I will have Parliament' s views to support my very clear awareness of the need to get the Agency up and running as soon as possible.
The Commission can accept the spirit, provided changes can be made in certain cases to the wording of the amendments relating to accompanying measures, participation of local communities in reconstruction, coordination with non-governmental organisations, consultation of Parliament before the Agency extends its activities to other areas of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, of course, budgetary transparency.
Some of the amendments - 7, 8, 10, 11, 17, 21, 25 and 26 - relate to issues that are already addressed in the current version of the proposal.
On the following points, however, we do not feel able to go along with Parliament: merging humanitarian aid and assistance for reconstruction within a single body, separation of Agency revenue from appropriations allocated to programmes, exclusion from the agency' s budget of contributions from other sources, approval of the staffing plan by the budgetary authority and a report on the possible winding up of the agency after 24 months.
This covers Amendments Nos 5 and 23, the first part of Amendment No 24 and Amendments Nos 27 and 28.
I am, of course, aware of the special importance the European Parliament attaches to two particular questions: the first relates to the establishment of the Agency' s headquarters in Thessaloniki and its operational centre in Pristina, the extension of its mandate to the whole of the western Balkans and the bringing of its activity within the framework of the Stability Pact.
It is an instrument of the European Union and must retain its autonomy of action.
Its headquarters can only be established in Thessaloniki as long as its operational centre in Pristina retains its own autonomy.
Third, the Commission would undertake to report next year on the possibility of extending the Agency' s activities to other Balkan countries under a new regulation.
The second issue which has given rise to a number of amendments is the desire to bring the Agency under the sole and direct responsibility of the Commission which would appoint the director.
The management committee would be replaced by an advisory committee.
That covers Amendments Nos 6, 12, 14, 16, 19 and 22.
This includes representation of the Member States on the governing board and specific rules on the line of responsibility.
The management committee formula is in accordance with the existing rules.
I think it is quite straightforward and I welcome what Prime Minister Lipponen said earlier today in response to a question from the honourable Member.
We all owe that to our team in Kosovo.
We ourselves had a problem, which Parliament was aware of, on the subject of amendment 6, since it seemed to go against article 133 of the Treaty.
Mr President, I would only like to say that this is a missed opportunity, in my modest opinion, because Amendment No 5 touches on an important aspect of the relations between the Commission and the Council, in particular the issue of commitology.
They have two different points of view, regardless of whether an advisory committee is selected - which we chose - that put more emphasis on the Commission, or a regulatory committee which put more emphasis on the Council.
I would, however, like to urge the Commission - I do not know whether Commissioner Liikanen is present, but, in any case, we have already discussed it in the general debate - to move quickly if it is to present a legislative framework covering all the subjects, so that an issue which is very sensitive from an institutional point of view can be addressed in an organised, thorough way.
Whilst I am on my feet, Madam President, I would like to refer back to earlier this morning when you were in the chair.
Mr Evans, I am happy to take note of the three points which you have raised.
We did ask them whether or not they wanted electronic voting to be used, given that generally, but perhaps even more so in this case, the vote could be a very close run thing, with a margin of only a few votes either way.
In any case, as President, I did not want to have any disputes after the fact, with Members of Parliament saying that they had used the equipment incorrectly.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTES Pack Report (A5-0013/1999) Mr President, on behalf of our group I just wanted to explain why we voted against the report.
The European group of liberals and democrats always felt that the Agency for Reconstruction in Kosovo should be based in Pristina and only in Pristina and should not, in some way or other, be linked with or part of, or work in tandem with, some other agency in Thessaloniki.
Palacio Vallelersundi Report (A5-0037/1999) - (DE) The position of the non-attached Members on the content of the first two decisions of Parliament regarding the Statute for Members has not changed.
The Members of the PvdA (labour party) Euro-delegation have voted for an amendment that procedurally establishes the resolutions of the European Parliament of 3 December 1998 and 5 May 1999, the subject of which is the statute for the Members of Parliament.
The PvdA delegation does not consider this vote to be a reflection of how it views the content of the resolutions of 3 December 1998 and 5 May 1999.
It regards the vote as no more than a procedural affair that is a necessary to allow the negotiations with the Council to proceed on the statute for the Members of Parliament that has yet to come into force.
The PvdA delegation and others in the European Parliament have worked hard in the past to cultivate this willingness to compromise on the part of the European Parliament and will continue to do so.
In approving this amendment we are opening the door to resuming discussions with the Council on the future statute for the Members of the European Parliament, in the hope that this statute will at last be brought in with all possible speed.
As far as I am concerned, this vote in no way signifies approbation of the resolution of 5 May 1999 on the Statute for Members.
In my opinion, as we develop a European frame of reference for electronic signatures, the European Union must also constantly work on the international level, so that the legal framework of the system can be strengthened.
The development of cooperation must not, however, lead to an increase in regulation.
I welcome the fact that the proposed Directive gives legal force to digital signatures (provided they are authenticated) and so gives them the same legal force as documents signed in ink.
Increased security for e-commerce in the EU should boost consumer confidence and help the citizens of the EU to benefit from this area of activity with greater peace of mind and security.
I wholeheartedly welcome this sensible step to tackle one of the key problems hindering the potential boom in e-commerce across Europe, namely the difficulty in verifying the identity of users and consumers.
Indeed, by 2002 we will have connected every school in Britain to the Internet.
Recommendation for second reading of the Miller report (A5-0028/1999) Huhne report (A5-0035/1999) I voted against the European Parliament resolution on the 1998 annual report of the European Central Bank (ECB), since it approves this report, which itself is aligned with the prospect of transition to a completely unified European monetary system.
Moreover, the European Parliament resolution discusses at length the technical measures to improve the transparency of the ECB.
The matter is more serious than it first appears.
Understandably, in these conditions, I cannot give my approval to either the European Parliament resolution or the annual report of the ECB for 1998.
As a former member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I read attentively the first annual report of the European Bank whose work I try to monitor closely.
This is the reason why I cannot but approve the action of the rapporteur in deploring the lack of transparency in the ECB.
Considering its high degree of autonomy, it is essential for the ECB to ensure a high level of transparency regarding decision-making on monetary policy.
I think it essential, furthermore, that, in order to promote effective collaboration between the ECB and the EP, the ECB President should be willing to brief Parliament regarding any significant decision on monetary policy.
The Bank must endeavour to consider monetary policy in terms of sustainable growth and employment.
The objective of price stability is not an end in itself; monetary policy must contribute to growth and the creation of jobs.
Regrettably, this is an example of the lack of democratic control on the part of these institutions.
By taking the fulfilment of the Stability Pact and of the respective criteria for nominal convergence as a basis, and making price stability the main priority, the ECB' s monetary guidelines come to be crucial for national and European policies in a huge variety of economic and social areas, including in the Financial Perspective of the European Union and of the Member States.
I welcome this first annual report by the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mr Duisenberg.
To MEPs such as myself, the ECB' s annual and monthly publications have proved to be invaluable and of a consistently high standard.
The Bank of England was granted operational independence in May 1997 in one of the first acts of the incoming Labour Government.
This boosts market confidence in its decisions and is a great example of open government.
It can surely be no coincidence that, since the Labour Government' s brave decision in May 1997, Britain has enjoyed a previously unknown period of economic stability and been praised by the OECD.
I would like to see the ECB follow a policy of openness and transparency similar to the Bank of England.
Therefore, if Britain is ever going to embrace the euro, the ECB must also embrace greater openness.
European Council at Tampere on 15 and 16 October Madame President, the Tampere Council which has just taken place, dedicated to the so-called European area "of freedom, security and justice" , did make a few good technical decisions to strengthen cooperation in the fight against crime and in favour of judicial coordination, for example by means of the wider use of mutual recognition of legal judgements in civil and criminal law, as you yourself, Madam President, indeed recommended in your introductory speech.
More generally however, particularly when it dealt with the subject of immigration, the Council became bogged down in two contradictions which indeed both suggest either its lack of political courage or the mutual paralysis of its members, it is not very clear which.
The contradiction becomes frankly laughable in the case of the French Government which, in the Amsterdam Treaty, signed in favour of the financial and physical distribution of refugees among the states of the Union, and which now recoils at the consequences of its own signature.
I want to emphasise my support for a European police training college and for increasing the competences for Europol provided, of course, there is full democratic control over their activities.
I have talked to the public a lot about this subject and I find that they would welcome a much greater ability to act against international crime and organised crime which increasingly crosses our frontiers.
So I predict the need for a capability for our police to operate across frontiers is going to become increasingly obvious and increasingly urgent.
The Tampere special Summit, whilst focusing on immigration and asylum policy for the first time, also seriously raised the issue of trafficking in humans which has been steadily growing over the past five years.
The Parliament resolution does not make reference to this, but I would like to put on record that concurrent to trafficking in adults, there is growing trafficking in children for prostitution and paedophile activities.
It is disgraceful that the affluent West has now added trade in human flesh to its consumer excesses.
This Area, which has come to the fore in line with progress in dismantling the EU' s so-called "internal borders" and with the strengthening of its "external borders" , must not transform the EU into a fortress.
The confirmation of the Geneva Refugee Convention "in its full and wide interpretation" is an important victory for the Greens and many non-governmental organisations.
The new approach towards combating illegal immigration in the countries of origin bears a risk, since the cooperation could lead to a sort of repression.
Our Group welcomes the increased efforts to fight money-laundering and trafficking of human beings.
Fair treatment includes not just the right of access to social services or education, but also the right to vote and free movement in the EU.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights must include new and binding rights for EU citizens if it is not to become a mere political declaration.
Mr President, most of my constituents were probably not aware that an important meeting of EU Governments took place in Tampere last week on justice and home affairs.
Furthermore, Britons facing legal difficulties abroad will now have easier access to justice, including access to legal aid and translation services and simplified procedures governing compensation and debt claims.
Among other measures, Governments also agreed common rules on providing refuge to those in need of political asylum and to draw up a Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Charter will, for the first time, set out all the fundamental rights enjoyed by EU citizens on one piece of paper.
There were 32 blank or spoiled ballot papers.
The number of votes cast was 525.
The deregulation of the capital markets, the abolition of economic borders, changes in various models as a result of high technology and the information society and global competition are all factors which often precipitate drastic changes and restructuring in industrial production.
What is certain is that this restructuring can be predicted and effected in many ways.
It would be quite realistic of me to say that no restructuring can be a smooth operation without its problems.
The institutional framework to date in the European Union has consisted of two directives: the Directive on collective redundancies and the European Works Council Directive.
My next point concerns social dialogue.
Social partners bear the responsibility for social dialogue and they could initiate special action plans within the context of the social responsibility incumbent upon all of us.
Finally, and again I am borrowing ideas and proposals from the Gillenhammer report, I intend to send a letter to every company in Europe with over 1,000 employees, asking them to draft a voluntary report entitled "managing change" ; this kind of benchmarking between these large companies will help us to make provision for restructuring without creating acute or major social problems.
Quite clearly, the European Union will and, in fact, must make every effort at every level to support free competition and create a free and healthy competitive area in which European companies can operate.
It is also clear that Europe must primarily support what it has been proud of for centuries - the European social model.
As I said earlier, restructuring is not a smooth operation but it can be both foreseen and managed, and true, it may indeed cost us provisionally but there must be no victims.
I believe that the proposals on a legislative level, and more importantly proposals resulting from the cooperation between the social partners are a good starting point from which to address these pressing issues of our time.
The French government, which as we all know, consists of socialists, greens and communists, has not intervened in this affair.
It is much easier to solve problems if there has been extensive consultation.
No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a moral situation where the share price of this firm can increase by 12% following this announcement, thus creating added value for shareholders without creating any sort of additional wealth, quite the contrary.
The Socialists are also asking for a report on the application of the European Directive on collective redundancies, to be accompanied by proposals for improvements intended just to make it effective in defending jobs and employees.
Without these minimum measures and some others, accompanied by concrete measures against the relocation of firms within the European Union and other measures against social dumping outside the Union, the European social model, so dear to some of our politicians, including those on the right wing, will never be anything but empty words, and this will contribute to exacerbating the anti-European feeling pervading our countries and many employees.
Mr President, Commissioner, in view of the fact that the market is becoming ever more global in character, it is more important than ever for companies to optimise their competitiveness.
As my group sees it, neither the European Parliament nor the European Commission have the authority to intervene in the operational management of European companies.
Other identical examples are still fresh in our memory, Renault Vilvorde, the French banking system and the large distribution companies, and let us not forget Daewoo.
All these companies who implement redundancy plans year after year have benefited from European and national subsidies without at any time being held accountable for the way in which they use those funds.
I think that our institution is duty-bound to be involved with the concerns of millions of Europeans who live in unemployment or in the fear of becoming unemployed.
Michelin is unfortunately far from being the exception in this area.
In no case should a flourishing business shed staff, let alone make employees redundant.
It is therefore up to the Commission to submit two revised proposals for a directive to us as quickly as possible.
For its part, my Group will be addressing the main European trade union organisations in order to exchange views and, if needs be, initiate a European petition which will allow our fellow citizens to weigh up the forthcoming decisions.
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Diamantopoulou for her speech.
Given the hope that the Union will have a joint economic policy and, possibly, a joint industrial policy, in our opinion it seems appropriate in the meantime for the Union to give its opinion, especially on those restructurings which the Member States have been or are involved in, financially or otherwise.
Mr President, the arrogant and rabble-rousing European political class has found the ideal scapegoat to carry the blame for its own base economic behaviour.
Those on the left who are today denouncing the redundancies at Michelin have given massive approval to the ultraliberal economic policies of the European Union, as defined in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties.
You actively support globalisation but you scream at the top of your voices when European companies try to adapt to the damaging regulations that you yourselves laid down, as well as to the economic environment that you are imposing on them.
Socialist or Liberal governments and the European Commission, also under the sway of the dogma of globalisation, are jointly responsible for this situation.
They are capitulating at the height of the campaign, before the negotiations of the Millennium Round even open, refusing to fight effectively against social dumping, refusing to force through a necessary social clause and abandoning the principle of Community preference.
The only possible policy for the full employment of the European workforce is to win back the internal market, to protect it against unfair competition, to reject this criminal and antisocial globalisation, and to re-establish the necessary rule of Community preference.
This is why Europe has much higher unemployment and much higher long-term unemployment that the USA.
Our task, as regulators, is to create an environment in which businesses and jobs can prosper.
Let us have governments deal with social security and leave industry free to create wealth and jobs.
I mean, as well, all of us here and out there in the rest of the European Union as taxpayers.
A good company will not treat its workforce or the community housing it as factors of production to be disposed of lightly in a global game of profit and loss.
We in this House have become accustomed to the idea of externalities in environmental policy, with the bill for the costs of dirty practices being picked up not by the enterprise in question, but by society more broadly.
Perhaps we need to think in similar terms when it comes to the social responsibilities of enterprises like Michelin.
We need a general framework on information and consultation and we also need a review of the law on transfers, mergers and take-overs - not involved here but in the banking and insurance sector for example.
I find that totally reprehensible and I hope all right-thinking people in this House will feel the same.
That resolution contained in the final paragraph a reference to Michelin.
That is a very serious matter indeed and I hope you will investigate it fully and report back to this House.
Thank you very much, Mr Hughes.
Mr President, we will be very interested in the conclusions of the enquiry that you are going to lead because we are also signatories to this resolution and we made the same observations.
What we have all been saying for a while is that, in fact, the goal being pursued by a growing number of companies who are restructuring is to provide their shareholders with more and more guarantees, and to ensure ever greater profitability for their financial investments.
That is why the management of the Michelin Group simultaneously announced the axing of 7,500 jobs and fantastic profits.
The social desperation that these decisions generate is inevitably transformed into political desperation and this political desperation is a permanent threat to democracy.
No, Mr Pronk, huge companies do not have the authority of divine right for their decisions.
The European Union must also acknowledge the end of a magical formula that all the European Institutions keep trotting out, according to which growth plus competition would necessarily equal employment and development.
We will have to draw conclusions from such a statement, in order to bring ourselves to reconsider the foundations of our European employment strategy and of our economic guidelines.
Company profits are the result of the work of all its employees; those profits should be used to maintain existing jobs as a matter of priority, and to create new ones, by sharing out the work without reducing wages.
I think that, if many of the opinions we have heard today were to prevail, we would be building a Europe of poverty and unemployment and not a Europe of employment and wealth.
If this is the Europe we are building, we are hypocrites because we are building a Europe where unemployment will reign and companies will close.
Mr President, the European Union must have a competitive industry, one that creates wealth and thus jobs.
Michelin today consists of 82 production plants, 48 of which are in Europe.
I would be very interested to know how many car manufacturers, including those in public ownership, or tyre manufacturers, including those in semi-public ownership, still have such a major presence in Europe today and have not already quietly relocated, sometimes with the assistance of governments, including left-wing governments.
Michelin has, it is true, reduced the number of its jobs by 25,000 in twenty years but, I would like to remind some people, these are 25,000 job losses due to levels of productivity which are comparable in all sectors of industry, and particularly in the car and tyre industries.
And the Michelin case, which I do not want to talk about in detail because other speakers have already done so, gives us the opportunity for this debate.
These processes, these phenomena which are becoming increasingly more frequent, must be regulated using the instruments available and these must be improved.
The resolution which were are now debating is a mixture of styles, of individual contributions, whose result is an extraordinarily unequal combination.
But some of the reflections, especially those expressed by Mr Pronk, seem to me to be particularly important.
And those who believe, by means of public intervention, in a type of arbitrary inventiveness, have emerged the losers.
But, having said that, those of us who believe in the market and belong to this side of the Hemicycle, far from the autarchic temptations of some parts of this Assembly, believe that the principle of social compensation must counter-balance the principle of a functioning market.
Therefore, I am especially pleased that our resolution opts for social dialogue as a method for resolving conflicts.
I am also glad that it refers to the need to review this fiscal set-up, which tempts companies to relocate to areas where there is a more favourable tax system.
If it were in fact the case that the market could regulate itself, then we should not today be speaking about Michelin.
Secondly, we must talk about this matter here because employees in Europe expect us, the European Union, to direct the process of globalisation and to regulate necessary modernisation and companies' adjustments to the market in intelligent ways, that is to say in ways which take the social contract into account.
There will be further economic changes in the EU but, for us Social Democrats, it should go without saying that employees and their unions are to be included in this process, that they are to be informed of developments in good time and that their proposals are to be examined seriously.
I should like to express my thanks to those of Michelin' s employees who are here today.
That would be a contribution to social peace, and the share markets would then have every good reason to see an increase in value.
Mr President, Commissioner, by this stage of the debate many things have been said.
This allows us to take up some of the ideas again by way of a conclusion.
This resolution on restructuring in industry has arisen today because one company, Michelin, decided to make 7,500 people redundant.
Of course the situation is tragic, but it is interesting to note today that we are able to talk about restructuring in industry not from a purely economic point of view, but raising the human issues that it involves.
I think that it is quite right to link this resolution to Michelin' s situation.
From the human point of view, this situation is not only unacceptable; it is indecent and immoral.
In the measures that have been proposed, Commissioner, you talked about social costs and the way we should take them into account in the long term.
In any case, this debate has clearly shown the political division in this House which does not disappear even in supposedly "compromise" resolutions.
Mr President, first of all I would like to express my real and genuine sympathy to all those who lose their jobs through no fault of their own as a result of corporate restructuring.
The best way for companies to be successful is for them to be competitive in the global market.
The European company landscape is changing at a pace never before seen, but the pattern which, in our view, these changes follow is always the same.
Millions of employees in Europe rightly fear for their jobs and, at the same time, the company reorganisations and restructurings are accompanied by rising share prices, at least in the short term.
Other speakers have in fact already made this very clear.
Our social peace is placed in the greatest jeopardy if scarcely more than a fifth of society benefits from developments and the remainder lag behind.
Mr President, Commissioner, competitiveness is theme number 1 in Europe.
However, there is, of course, a significant difference in Europe: the cultural, social and historical model of Europe is based on stringent social forces and on the balance between society and the economy.
It was said that Europe will have to create an environment for our companies.
However, we should also have a corresponding environment for our citizens and the two must be created at the same time.
I think the answer must be "yes" because the market does not operate according to natural laws, it is not a natural phenomenon.
And we, the European Parliament and the Commission, form part of the political powers of Europe.
The initial assessment of these two directives shows that they work well, but at present amendments tabled by Parliament are being processed and in January 2000 we will be able to begin discussions on these two directives.
It is, however, certain that this will be one of the areas in which the European Parliament will be playing a pivotal role.
Enhancing social dialogue is, in my view, of fundamental importance.
The political element of this dialogue will begin on 8 November and for the first time social partners expressing their social concerns on the issue of employment, banks outlining their monetary policy, and the Member States, which are the political forces in Europe, will sit at the same table.
These broad guidelines and the funding of many of these policies include a lot of the proposals we have heard here, such as special tax relief for workers and for small and medium-sized businesses, financial assistance for the education or further education of those workers facing either redundancy or restructuring, social packages to support the social network in cases of major restructuring, continuing training and providing workers with new skills and qualifications so that they can respond to restructuring.
History shows us that companies cannot operate under laws which prescribe employee numbers or profit margins.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your intervention and your closing words concerning dialogue with the Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The EU believes that the CTBT is an important step in the promotion of non-proliferation and the decommissioning of weapons, and its entry into force will be to the benefit of all countries.
This being the case, the European Union deplores the decision taken on 13 October in the American Senate not to ratify the Test Ban Treaty.
We have also emphasised European Union support for the Test Ban Treaty in political dialogue between the EU and the United States.
President Clinton has stated that the United States will, in the future, refrain from carrying out nuclear test explosions.
Of the 44 countries that use nuclear technology, and whose ratification is, under Article XIV of the treaty, a condition of the entry into force of the Test Ban Treaty, in all 26 have ratified it.
In July 1999 the European Union adopted a common position, whose purpose it was to strengthen EU cooperation in international efforts to bring the CTBT into force.
On the basis of the common position, the EU actively participated in the conference held this year on 6 - 8 October in Vienna according to Article XIV of the treaty.
In addition, the EU has been involved in bilateral discussions to promote the entry into force of the treaty with all those countries that have not yet signed or ratified it, but whose ratification is vital for the treaty to come into force.
The EU is appealing to all countries, and especially those, and this includes the United States, whose ratification is a condition of the treaty coming into force, to become associated with the treaty as soon as possible.
The Test Ban Treaty supports this system of non-proliferation.
The Test Ban Treaty is unique in nature.
Compliance with the Test Ban Treaty will be monitored by means of a comprehensive system of verification, whose main element is a worldwide monitoring system consisting of 321 technical survey stations.
The Commission shares the disappointment that has just been expressed by the presidency of the Council that the United States Senate rejected ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
It constitutes a key element in the international strategy to control, reduce and ultimately to eliminate the risk of nuclear conflict.
Its ratification by the present nuclear powers is essential for our efforts to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons to other countries.
The European Union, as the presidency has pointed out, has been and remains fully committed to these objectives.
I know that the American administration shares our objectives.
They understood, as well as we do, how important it is for us to take the lead together in order to obtain the 44 ratifications which are necessary for the entry into force of the Treaty.
This regrettable vote may even offer encouragement to other countries in their nuclear aspirations and make them cross the threshold by testing their own nuclear devices.
They would undermine international support and confidence in the multilateral arms control efforts.
More seriously, they might trigger reciprocal actions in other countries through testing or through the strengthening of their nuclear programmes.
We must now, more than ever, show our commitment to the Treaty and redouble our efforts to promote its early entry into force.
This is essential in order to maintain the international momentum in favour of continued arms limitation and a stronger global non-proliferation regime.
To achieve this we need to work with the United States and other leading partners.
The leading role played by the United States has been essential in developing the global non-proliferation regime.
We should do everything we can to convince Congress of the importance of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty for ourselves, for the United States and for the international non-proliferation efforts.
I also believe that all honourable Members have a particular role to play in this respect.
I hope that, to borrow an unattractively appropriate phrase, the fall-out from this lamentable political decision can be contained.
Failure to recognise that condemns us all to live in a much less safe world.
Mr President, Mr Sasi, Commissioner, you have just reminded us, in great detail, of the importance of this Treaty Ban, the basic aim of which is to strengthen the measures of the non-proliferation treaty and, in conjunction with this, aims to keep the development of nuclear weapons under control, thereby limiting the proliferation of these weapons and of the technology necessary for developing them.
On 13 October, this treaty was defeated in the American Senate, which rejected it by 51 votes to 48 and one abstention.
This shows that the margin was very narrow and that it may therefore be useful - and it certainly will be useful - for our Parliament to make its voice heard after those of the Heads of government who, in Tampere, lamented the attitude of the American Senate, pointing out that it represented a timely signal to those who might be tempted to equip themselves with nuclear weapons.
Among the arguments put forward in the United States, some people thought that it was not yet time to stop nuclear testing at a time when North Korea is making efforts to develop its own weapons, and as China is continuing to build up its arsenal.
Finally, others questioned the application of this treaty which, it must be admitted, will be difficult to control even when the 381 monitoring stations that the Representative of the Council told us about have actually been deployed.
The strategy of deterrence may therefore have its merits.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my group had requested the inclusion of this point in the agenda.
Allow me first of all to welcome the fact that there is virtual unanimity between the Council, the Commission and, hopefully, the Parliament, concerning such a crucial issue at a time when we have to take decisive steps in the development of the common foreign and security policy.
And, having said this, I believe that rather than debating amongst ourselves, what we have to do is address the American Senate, and especially its Republican majority, because this is not a debate against the United States, but a debate in which we specifically support President Clinton.
What we profoundly criticise is that attitude of the Republican majority in the Senate which corresponds more to the former doctrine of the "clear destiny" of the United States, much more than to the moral, as well as military, leadership which they currently hold.
I must confess - with some experience of relations between this Parliament and the Congress of the United States - that in the Congress of the United States we have many friends and connections but that we have at no time been able to timetable a positive debate with Senator Helms, who does not even seem to have an American passport and who considers, not only with regard to this issue but also with regard to many others, that it is his job to impose his laws on the world.
It disturbs our relations with Russia and creates a situation which encourages those States which are on the threshold of having a nuclear capability to start again.
And in the Union, where we have all ratified the Test Ban Treaty, we have political and moral arguments to address to our American partners so that we can remind them that they have a serious responsibility to try to stabilise the world and that they can rely on our help if it is really possible to cooperate with them.
Mr President, I hope that our colleagues in the Delegation for Relations with the United States will remind our American friends of this as soon as possible.
We have supported the United States' and NATO' s nuclear strategy, including their attempts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Mr President, first of all I should like say on behalf of my group that we are very disappointed at the failure to include in the resolution a call for all European Member States and EU applicant Member States to give their full support for the new agenda coalition resolution which is now on the table of the 55th United Nations General Assembly.
The American decision is deplorable and it sends out a very dangerous signal to the rest of the world as regards nuclear disarmament.
The recent case in Scotland which has re-endorsed the International Court' s ruling that nuclear weapons are illegal is also interesting and has to be taken on board.
Finally, the European Union should look again at its policy of supporting NATO and the Western European Union.
In fact, in the country which wishes to set itself up as a moral and strategic leader, groups seem to prevail which, for the sake of profits and military and nuclear supremacy, are not afraid of destroying themselves too.
Several times, Parliament has come out in favour of an end to nuclear weapons.
Here are just a few examples - China, Russia, India and Israel, which is still holding Mr Mordekaivanour as a conscientious objector in prison.
We must also put a stop to Nuclear Sharing, as laid down in articles 1 and 2 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which states that no State in possession of nuclear weapons can, directly or indirectly, transfer weapons to another country.
On the contrary, we have seen that large quantities of nuclear weapons have been brought to NATO bases, against the wishes of the local population who have chosen to live in nuclear-free areas.
I do not want to lose confidence that it is possible to make this world more rational, and that it will stop producing what could destroy it.
I am convinced that peace movements against nuclear weapons, which achieved so much in the seventies and eighties, could take up their activities again in cooperation with us and our Parliament, so that we can truly live in a nuclear-free world.
I should like to make three points in this debate.
Therefore we are right today to strongly criticise the action which the US Senate has taken on the comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
Secondly, it is interesting that in the previous debate we had on this issue of globalisation we recognised, whether we liked it or not, that economic forces were global, new technologies were global.
This irresponsibility has dealt a severe blow to all international efforts towards non-proliferation and puts nuclear disarmament into a state of severe crisis.
It seems that much more important to me at this time for the EU to take the initiative in this area.
I welcome the initiative of President Jacques Chirac, Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Prime Minister Tony Blair who, in an open letter to the American public, canvassed in favour of ratifying the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
I am a little disappointed, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have only told us what we have read in the newspapers anyway.
Mr President, last week in Greenock, on the western seaboard of this Union, three brave women Angela Zetter, Ellen Moxley and Bodil Ulla Roder stood trial on a charge of criminal damage.
Their aim was to prevent what they consider a grave crime under international law.
The courage and judicial independence of Sheriff Gimblett - the courage of Angela Zetter and her companions stand in sharp contrast with the petulant failure of the United States Senate to ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
We have all seen what has been happening between India and Pakistan.
The START process is faltering and too many countries reserve the right to develop a nuclear capability.
The Non-Proliferation Treaty more or less signifies the acceptance of five nuclear powers.
This commitment is an important feature of the non-proliferation process and constitutes its moral basis to some extent.
Quite apart from the significance of this line of argument in political and military terms, it is important to recognise that it is an expression of American provincialism which leaves no room for a reciprocal international approach, in which countries such as Iraq are countered with international embargoes coupled with sanctions.
Viewed with political realism, the fact that this has not happened in the USA is not of very great importance because, of 155 countries, only 51 have so far ratified the Treaty and, of 44 key States, only 41 have signed it.
And all this despite the fact that the Test Ban Treaty would have frozen forever US nuclear superiority.
Mr President, I am very satisfied that the debate here in Parliament has shown complete unanimity, and it is good that the Commission, Parliament and the Council have very clearly emphasised the support of the European Union for the Test Ban Treaty.
It is unfortunate that the American Senate has given the totally wrong signal in this issue, and especially the wrong signal to those countries that might still feel tempted to carry out nuclear testing.
I assure you that, for our part, this issue will be raised continually in political dialogue between the European Union and the United States.
But as you know, the US administration is not a problem here: we, and especially you, the Members of Parliament, must target your special efforts at the American Senate, for it to support this treaty.
Mr President, I was interested to hear during the course of this short but important debate, the views of the honourable Member, Mr MacCormick.
The honourable and gallant Member, General Morillon, mentioned the vote in the Senate and that it had been lost by 51 to 48.
Actually, it is more serious than that because it requires a two-thirds vote in the Senate to ratify a treaty, so we are still almost 20 votes short of that ratification figure.
Was the honourable Member referring to the question whether we recognised that the American action argued very strongly the case for us developing a common foreign and security policy?
But perhaps I could go a stage further and say that what would be really damaging for the European Union would be if, having asserted the case for a common foreign and security policy, having argued the case for a European security and defence initiative, we were then to fall way short of our rhetoric in what we actually did.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, the summit conference held by the EU and Russia took place in what is a historic building, as far as Russia is concerned, the Assembly House of the Estates in Helsinki.
On the agenda at the meeting, there were four main items: firstly, EU/Russian relations, including the current situation in the EU and Russia; secondly, the northern dimension; thirdly, cooperation in the fight against crime; and, fourthly, current international affairs, in which the focus was on the forthcoming OSCE Summit and the situation in the west Balkans.
In my speech I will focus on Russia' s internal situation, in particular, the situation in Chechnya.
In addition, I will speak about the EU' s common foreign policy, the fight against crime and the northern dimension.
He said that, despite speculation, a state of emergency would not be declared for the whole country on account of the situation in the northern Caucasus.
Russia has created a security zone and is feeding the 100,000 people who have left the region.
The humanitarian situation in the region is growing worse all the time.
Regional cooperation is important in the fight against cross-border crime, and Russia is a key partner in cooperation.
Mr Putin stressed that it was important to move from words to deeds.
As Parliament would expect, the summit was inevitably dominated by straight talking on Chechnya with the European Union, as the presidency indicated, pressing for de-escalation, for a return to political dialogue, for proportionality in the use of force to deal with terrorism and a solution to the humanitarian crisis.
I would like to say a word about that and then concentrate briefly on two other issues that loomed large in our discussions: implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement and European Union enlargement and the northern dimension.
Firstly, the Commission very much shares the deep concern of all Member States about the present situation in Chechnya.
The Commission has decided in principle that ECHO could make available straight away EUR 1.2 million to help relieve the situation in Ingushetia and Dagestan.
The Russians are open in principle to offers of humanitarian aid but we have still some way to go in discussions with them before European Union aid can be distributed.
Before we can go ahead we need further assurances from the Russian authorities on the security arrangements for international aid workers on the ground.
In this context, the economic cooperation initiatives that we have launched with Russia are, in general, developing well.
We have launched a major programme providing young Russian managers with periods of practical training in firms in the European Union.
Cooperation between experts is advancing in a number of other areas including the environment, coping with the millennium bug in Russia and the more efficient use of energy.
We have repeatedly asked the Russian authorities to address the obstacles which stand in the way of European Union companies' expansion in Russian markets.
The decline in European Union exports to Russia since the financial crisis of August last year underlines the need for action in these areas.
Thirdly, Prime Minister Putin welcomed European Union enlargement as a force for political stability in Europe.
The Russians are understandably taking a very close interest in the enlargement process and the European Union is ready to engage in a serious dialogue with them in the partnership and cooperation agreement framework.
In response to Russian worries about the economic impact of enlargement, President Prodi stressed the benefits in terms of lower tariffs and improved access to the markets of applicant countries.
The benefits will be even greater if Russia can bring her technical norms and standards closer to those in the European Union, helping her to gain access more easily to the expanded commercial opportunities of the enlarged single market.
Kaliningrad, as a future enclave inside the European Union, represents a particular challenge within the northern dimension.
Partner countries to the northern dimension, including the European Union applicant countries neighbouring Kaliningrad, show increasing interest in cooperating on the issues raised by its unique situation.
Already through Tacis and other European Union financial instruments the Commission is supporting the process of economic transition in Kaliningrad.
But for all that I think it was a useful meeting and I very much hope that the Russian Prime Minister will reflect on all that we said, particularly perhaps on the northern Caucasus.
Mr President, the major projects that we are continually occupied with in this House such as enlargement and reforming the institutions of the European Union are evidence of how vital and ambitious the European Union is.
The document that the Council has produced is aimed above all at fostering the development of the Russian Federation as a democratic constitutional state with a well-functioning social market economy.
The lesson we have learnt in the course of the enlargement dialogue is that prosperity and security are not brought about first and foremost by attempts to introduce a market economy, but by establishing a democratic constitutional state.
It is therefore appropriate for the leading elite in the Russian Federation to take a critical and common sense attitude.
A good partnership also has responsibilities towards third parties.
The Russian Federation has itself already demanded this where the former Yugoslavia is concerned.
On a final note, let us as a European Union endeavour to encourage Russia to use other means to bring an end to the unrest that has been stirred up in its neighbouring countries due to the situation in Chechnya.
But in any case, let us, as a European Union, embrace the Russian desire to secure multipolarity in the spirit in which it is intended.
Mr President, the summit in Helsinki took place against a very serious background.
This has also been the West' s common position in its attitude to events in Chechnya.
However, Russia is in breach of many human rights agreements.
The OSCE agreements also demonstrated clearly that countries are committed to the notion that violations of human rights can never constitute the internal affairs of a state.
Mr President, we must totally condemn the acts of terror that have been targeted at the Russian people, and which have resulted in a large number of civilian victims.
But at the same time we must also condemn Russian action against the civil population of Chechnya and the acts of terror perpetrated against civilians there.
Unfortunately, the European Union and the countries of NATO have given an example of how to act in this connection; in the war in Yugoslavia, they showed how conflicts can be resolved.
They can be resolved in the EU and NATO through violence, precision bombing raids and attacks on independent countries, all of which runs counter to the decisions of the international community.
I believe, however, that the war in Chechnya should not be seen either as a purely regional conflict or as a purely religious dispute.
We wish to achieve a solution through dialogue, and that will require talks between the leaders of Russia and Chechnya.
We will arrange for still closer dialogue between the EU and Russia.
In these discussions we will express our frustration with the Russian action in Chechnya.
If the situation does not improve, it will be even harder for the Council to counter this pressure.
But, as has been claimed, the longer the war goes on, the more negative the attitude will become to any kind of aid to Russia.
All of us in this House agree about that, and it has been said again and again through a multiplicity of decisions.
Mr President, I can only agree with Mr Lehne.
Aid organisations cannot work there.
I am of the view that the European Union must attach more weight to discussions.
Naturally, we need Russia, for example in Kosovo.
But Russia in turn needs us, that is to say it needs the European Union.
In its efforts to achieve greater weight for its foreign policy, the European Union should not permit this. (Applause) Mr President, to follow on seamlessly, may I thank you, Constanze Krehl, for finally being so courageous and for saying these things so clearly.
Mr President, by now it is crystal clear that most colleagues in this House share my conviction that the tragedy of Chechnya could have been avoided if the European Union had shown a firm attitude towards the Russian aggression.
Mr Sasi mentioned the particular significance for the Finnish people of the place where the meeting was held in Helsinki.
I must say quite clearly that the European Union' s strategy towards Russia has failed.
Mr President, it would indeed appear that the Chechen war in Russia is also part of an election campaign, although there may be many other reasons for it.
However, documents where a rational desire to cooperate with westerners is expressed are useful to him, such as the Helsinki document of 22 October.
But there are, as Mr Paasilinna pointed out, grounds for concern about the situation in the South Caucasus as well.
I should like to say on this occasion that the Commission wants to reiterate its support for the Armenian Government in its efforts to find a rapid and peaceful solution to the situation in the Caucasus.
This debate has focused on Chechnya, which was the subject of some very straight talking in Helsinki with some Members understandably asserting that the European Union should have done something more than it has done already.
The communiqué, as the honourable Member pointed out, referred to the fact that we had exchanged views on the situation in the Northern Caucasus.
Some Members suggested that we should cut off financial assistance to the Russian Federation because that assistance might be used to sustain the military campaign.
I should just like to remind Members of Parliament, who are probably more familiar with some of the details of these issues than even I am, that we are not the provider of direct financial assistance to the Russian authorities.
It is very important for all of us that we make a programme like that succeed.
Mr President, the CULTURE 2000 programme, as a single instrument, will be replacing the ARIANE, KALEIDOSCOPE and RAPHAEL programmes which gave outstanding service to the cause of European culture and whose success has been universally acknowledged.
Consistent with the Mouskouri report which this Parliament was right to adopt, the recommendation to which I am honoured to put my name, maintained its aim of seeing the budgetary appropriation strengthened, from the EUR 167 million initially provided, and raised it to 250 million.
Now, in principle, each initial project corresponds to needs experienced specifically by a given group of citizens.
On the other hand, it seems obvious that there are great imbalances as a result of extremely varied conditions of time, method and place, in terms of the opportunity for access to the enjoyment of cultural values that the citizens of various European countries possess.
This is why the possibility was foreseen of supporting medium- and even small-scale actions so that the greatest possible number of European citizens benefit, who will, as a result, be able to become more directly involved.
There are countless cultural operators and agents who will be deprived of any kind of means for the action that they are developing, which will be of inestimable value if this dossier is not concluded before the end of the year so that we can allow the programme to come into force at the beginning of next year.
Culture plays an important role in this model, and partly for the purpose of facilitating respect on the part of our citizens for each other' s different cultures, as well as for national and regional traditions.
This new programme sets out the framework for the European Union' s cultural policy for the next few years.
When we see that the European Union has precisely 167 million ecus left for cultural policy, we naturally regard this as a ridiculous sum.
We are also working in the cultural sphere when it comes to the areas covered by the regional funds.
Even EUR 250 million would not be enough in view of the scale of the work which awaits us.
But that is how it is everywhere in the European Union.
Mr President, this is a serious and rigorous report.
The joint position of the Council has not yet accepted the Parliament' s criteria and the rapporteur, reasonably, has retained in this second reading the ones which he considers to be essential.
On the other hand, we agree with the Council on the need for the activities of Culture 2000 to be visible to the public, but the best way to achieve this is through small and medium scale events, in diverse locations and close to the citizens, rather than events on a grand scale.
The Council confuses public reaction with media reaction and forgets that in the latter case the reaction is almost always ephemeral.
The Council, or rather, a small part of it, has ignored the spirit and the letter of the Treaties and specifically Article 151.
I hope that the steadfastness of this Parliament, on the one hand, and the help of the new Commissioner on the other, together finally with the understanding of the Council, will all come to act together to this end.
The liberal group warmly endorses the amendments that he has submitted.
I await with interest the discussion that the budget rapporteur has announced which will take place on the way in which the financial resources in chapter A 30 of the budget for 2001 are allocated.
Mr President, I would first like to point out how important Mr Graça Moura' s report is.
Is it acceptable that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport has been given EUR 167.33 million per year when it is asking for EUR 250 million?
The rapporteur also stresses the link between culture and citizenship.
I think in fact that greater balance is necessary between the budgets allocated to ambitious cultural events and the targeted projects.
I would not like the budget for culture to become inversely proportional to our cultural ambitions.
Indeed, at this delicate stage for the European Union, while we begin to enlarge eastwards, while all the economic and financial changes linked to the creation of the single currency are already underway, we must not forget the value of culture, the specificity and diversity of European culture, its enhancement and its diffusion.
To conclude, Europe must not forget that investing in culture does not mean simply preserving a great legacy and our identity as Europeans, but also the creation of many new jobs.
In this same respect, I wish to communicate to the Commission my concern about the development and subsequent implementation of the programmes, in all their fields.
The success of Culture 2000 will depend largely on its capacity to implement new working methods and to bring these offers of cooperation closer to a citizens' Europe.
Mr President, I would like to touch on one aspect of cultural diversity needing support: minority languages.
The European Union has done much to promote its wealth of cultures and I congratulate Commissioner Reding on her work in this regard.
It is crucial therefore that the Commission uses its preparatory measures to ensure that current projects do not now suffer.
In Europe we also have on-going political conflicts which result from cultural differences.
I wish to state here my support not only for Colombia and other countries but also for the current peace processes in these two regions, which are part of Europe.
I call on the Council, the Commission and this Parliament to ensure that the mechanisms of the Culture 2000 programme, as well as the other programmes available, are also used to support these peace initiatives.
We should opt for events such as the European Culture Capital and the Month of Culture taking place in Northern Ireland or the Basque Country, since this new political framework for Europe may offer valid solutions to these two conflicts.
In these areas we need to promote the values of tolerance and respect for cultural diversity and the freedom of peoples to decide their future and promote co-existence, solidarity and a sense of justice and peace.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to warmly congratulate your rapporteur on his excellent work, and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport for the support it has given to the rapporteur.
The report clearly shows, if it were still necessary, Parliament' s commitment to this programme and to the cultures of Europe.
The "Culture 2000" programme is the first framework-programme for culture.
You have stressed, both in your speeches and even, previously, during our brief encounters in the corridors of Parliament, the positive aspects and the things which can be improved in the day-to-day running of this programme.
I would like to thank you above all, though, for the speed with which you have worked.
This is in the interests of our citizens because, as you know, the conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Council must begin quickly so that our citizens will be able to feel the benefits of our "Culture 2000" programme in the year 2000.
These are amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 14.
I would just like to say that, in principle, the Commission accepts amendment 4 on commitology, on condition that there is a simple cross-reference in the text to the management procedure laid down by the decision of the Council on 28 June 1999, which sets out the conditions for exercising the competences for implementation granted to the Commission.
I propose to partially accept amendments 7, 11 and 13.
I have just one observation regarding that part of amendment 7 which the Commission has accepted, and this concerns terminology.
We can accept amendment 11 relating to the role of information by means of cultural contact points on condition that their regional activities, which can be conducted as a complement to their national role, are done so on the basis of the measures in force in the various Member States and that they do not involve any increase in the Community' s overall financial contribution.
The Commission will obviously discuss with the Member States the breakdown of this aid between the national and regional levels.
The Commission accepts amendment 13 which proposes criteria relating to the distribution of the budget among the main cultural fields, whilst raising from 9% to 11% the percentage in favour of activities in the books and reading sector whose annual subsidy would decrease slightly in relation to the Ariane project.
I agree with you wholeheartedly, but we cannot ignore the Realpolitik and, as you well know, the budgetary authorities do not always share our views.
I am therefore forced to maintain my original position on amendment 3 and cannot accept the proposal seeking to raise the budget from EUR 167 million to EUR 250 million.
The three institutions are in fact committed to respecting the budgetary programme and only the budgetary authorities can implement a modification.
It is from this perspective, and in the hope that we will be able to make rapid progress in the direction our citizens wish, that I ask you to vote for this report.
Thank you, Mrs Reding.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Our Committee has worked very quickly and efficiently and, on 28 October 1998, it unanimously adopted the de Coene report with 61 amendments.
The proposed amendments were to bring the programme closer to young people and so to the European Union.
The proposed programme was then blocked in the Council until, under the German Presidency, it resulted in a Common Position' s being adopted on 28 June, based on a proposed five-year programme involving EUR 350 million.
That corresponds to an expenditure of less than EUR 0.20 per citizen per year for the youth exchange programme and is in the region of a per mill of the overall budget.
If now, with the unanimous support of Committee 13, I am bringing in further amendments, these relate first and foremost again to funding, duration and prevailing upon Member States to remove obstacles to gaining access to the programme.
It is also a question of introducing a structure for gathering information about young people and for setting up an Internet website for "Youth in Europe" and "Youth for Europe" in order, on an interactive basis, to reach new strata of young Europeans.
I therefore recommend that a period of seven years be proposed here and that the financial framework for implementing this programme be set at EUR 980 million.
I again appeal to the Member States to make commitments regarding social protection and medical care.
We respect the principle of subsidiarity but, in this area, the responsibility of the Member States must also have an effect.
The action programme sets out to contribute to the realisation of a European sphere of education which promotes lifelong learning and facilitates the unrestricted exercise of citizens' rights.
Although the new action programme is to take the various programmes there have been so far and bring them together in concentrated form, no single programme is to be preferred.
In this way, the new action programme will, in some ways, be easier to take an overview of and also, therefore, more citizen-friendly than the numerous youth programmes that are all too scattered.
I think this is very important because it also provides an opportunity for contact with Europe for young people in whom an interest in this area has not been inculcated at home.
The earlier young people get together with people of other nationalities in Europe, the sooner they will take an active part in the integration of Europe.
The youth action programme also promotes the integration of Europe in a further sense by including the applicant countries in the East, Cyprus, Malta and Turkey.
In this way, young people have the opportunity to become aware of the cultural diversity, not only of those States which are already members of the European Community, but also of those which are still on the borders of this Community but large groups of whose populations already live in various Member States.
This state of affairs in turn has a positive effect upon the struggle for the respect of human rights and against racism, exaggerated nationalism and anti-Semitism.
In this way, young people actively contribute to the construction and integration of Europe.
By contributing to programmes with participants from various Member States, young people discover the real Europe in its social and cultural diversity and become alert to new surroundings, something which greatly increases the incentive to learn a foreign language.
For a programme of seven years' duration, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport requires an overall financial package of EUR 980 million.
I believe that I do not have to repeat yet again here that this sum is in fact spread over seven years, meaning an annual amount of EUR 140 million.
Mr President, the Youth programme has been one of the most successful programmes in getting people from different nationalities to work together and learn from each other.
In West Lothian a project has been developed on street work with a partnership from Munich.
To end my list of examples: a link between Larkhall in Lanarkshire and a French programme where young people have contributed to the construction of a cycle path in the south of Scotland.
And if this is just a small number of examples of how the Youth programme has worked in Scotland, just think what an impact the Youth programme has had across the EU and the potential of what it can achieve in the future.
Please support this report and support the work of young people in Europe.
The communication medium par excellence is, of course, the Internet.
Mr President, the strengthening of the European Union cannot be achieved solely through the euro.
Our young people must feel integrated, not separated by borders, and have a more open, free mentality.
It is therefore a priority to ensure, as highlighted by the rapporteur, a greater diffusion of the programme and to make sure that, in future, Community actions like this one will not remain a privilege for a minority because of a lack of information.
To conclude, I would like to emphasise that in a society which is leaning towards telematics networks and the Internet, and which increasingly invests in their use, for communication, information and services, it is almost ridiculous that the Council has not accepted the amendments on the creation of an Internet site dedicated entirely to young people.
As regards an analysis of the factors which have promoted or hampered the social integration of young people, I believe it is essential to include an analysis of the role of the family or lack of family in the young person' s development.
Mr President, I should like to remind this House that in Agenda 2000 we give a high priority to youth education and training but this priority is not reflected within the budget allocation to the Youth Action Programme.
Yet this programme is about investing in our future, investing in young people who will become, as we have heard today, the Europeans of tomorrow.
It has been a success both in the operational sense and with regard to its publicity value.
The problems of youth programmes often originate in the fact that there is an attempt to reach as large a target group as possible with different sector programmes.
For example, the group meeting sector programme is considerably cheaper than the European voluntary service and, furthermore, a greater number of young people derive benefit from the group meeting.
I should also like to thank the Members of the Committee, for it is them we have to thank for the fact that we can today vote on a project which will in fact be available to young people very quickly.
I must also highlight the very positive attitude of the Finnish Presidency, which has also done its best to ensure that work progresses, and I think that the cooperation established between the two institutions in order to take the negotiation forwards as quickly as possible is quite exemplary.
As the point has been raised, I would like to inform you, on the subject of information on the "Youth" programmes, that the Eurodesk network, a combination of Internet sites and youth advisory services, is available in all the countries of the Union and in all its languages.
I am therefore able to accept almost all of the amendments.
This is why we are able to accept amendments 2, 3 and 6.
We are thus able to accept, in principle, amendments 7 and 8, as long as the appropriate wording can be found of course.
In order to follow up this report, I am intending to propose to the Commission that we adopt a modified proposal on the basis of the amendments that we can accept.
We will present this modified proposal to the Commission before the Council meeting due to take place on 23 November in order to assist the Ministers for Youth in reaching a decision.
I must tell you how delighted I have been to note the enthusiasm that has been expressed here, the enthusiasm with which young and not so young Members have committed themselves to ensuring that the youth of our continent may, in future - even more so than in the past, because everyone was also in agreement in pointing out that the "Youth" programme has already given a great deal to millions of young people - build on what has already been well done.
Young people are our present.
Together with us they are building the future.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, I would start by saying that in a letter of 6 July 1999 the Council consulted Parliament pursuant to Article 157, on the proposal for a Council Decision concerning Community participation in the European Audiovisual Observatory.
At the sitting of 23 July, the President of Parliament proposed that the Committee, chaired by myself, should examine the subject, and in its meeting of 27 July, the Committee on Culture and Youth appointed me rapporteur.
The European Audiovisual Observatory, Mr President, is a very important public service body, which aims to gather and disseminate information on the audiovisual industry: cinema, television, video etc.
Moreover, its sphere of competence is broader: it extends into the legal sector, to specialist information, and its mandate, which covers the 34 States - and I stress this once again - is broader than that of Eurostat.
The two institutions must not be too far opposed, or rather, they must not and cannot be opposed as they are in regular contact, have also established their modus operandi and have come to an agreement on the way their activities are to be carried out.
On the other hand, I believe we will have the chance to cooperate on these issues with the excellent Commissioner, Mrs Reding, and I take this opportunity to greet her and thank her for her willingness on the matter.
On a personal note, however, I would like to say that I did not agree with the third amendment, in the sense that the decision we are about to adopt and that the Commission has already brought forward should have expired in the original text on the last day of the last month of the fifth year, while the Commission has shortened the time period to three years.
As already mentioned, the Observatory counts 34 European countries as members and therefore almost anticipates the forthcoming enlargement of the EU as well.
It could be extended, but our commitment is for three years.
If I can say that in under two minutes, it is not unreasonable to expect the Commission and Eurostat to get their act together in three years.
Mr President, Commissioner, audiovisual production has an important role in preserving and developing the cultures of European countries and Europe' s cultural diversity.
We must safeguard the development of SMEs in the audiovisual sector.
There are actually 34 European states, plus the European Commission, that are members of the observatory.
At the same time, however, it must be remembered that savings should not be made in the wrong areas.
It is better to support SMEs through services and not, for example, through business aid that distorts competition.
Mr Chairman, we are often accused here in Parliament, and sometimes justifiably so, of spending taxpayers' money too freely.
This cannot be rational or expedient, and we should like it to be investigated whether closer cooperation between Eurostat and the various national offices might, in the long term, render the Observatory' s work superfluous.
But, when the main content of this motion is "only" about reducing the period of support from 5 to 3 years, then there is also time to investigate whether Eurostat and the national offices of statistics can cover the need we have for statistics and statistical information.
Therefore, Mr President, we have not tabled, or rather we have not been able to table amendments, or participate in the vote on the report.
The European Audiovisual Observatory, as has been said, was set up in 1992, under the initial auspices of the Audiovisual Eureka programme.
Let me explain: it is a reality that many structures and organisations end up tied to their public funding body, and this situation tends to take them away from their objective, which in this case is public service and assistance for professionals in the audiovisual sector.
It has not, however, had any binding legal basis, and this is now to be created on the basis of Article 130a, paragraph 3 of the EC Treaty and with reference to the fact that, as a provider of information, it is mainly to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry by improving the flow of information.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
Thank you, President Gargani.
These tasks are fulfilled effectively by the observatory and the return on our participation in terms of support for the audiovisual industry and the Union is positive.
For the future the Commission envisages extending the activities carried out by the observatory, notably in two specific areas: implementing a statistical information structure under Eurostat and preparing for the GATT 2000 negotiations.
The active participation of the Commission for the next five years in the observatory will allow it to optimise the complementarity of the tasks carried out by Eurostat and the observatory itself.
The aim is to create, at the end of a five-year period, a harmonised official EU set of statistics for the audiovisual sector.
I would like to stress that the activities of the observatory and Eurostat do not overlap in terms of period covered, geographical scope or output and could be usefully coordinated in order to achieve a clear view of the complex reality in the audiovisual sector.
Concerning the other two amendments: the Commission understands Parliament' s concerns but cannot accept the amendments as they are drafted.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, the idea of including Turkey among the beneficiary countries of the Youth and SOCRATES programmes goes back to 1996.
The Commission' s proposal was made on 14 May 1996 and is in line with the objective of extending the large cultural market to Turkey too.
This happened despite the obstacles put forward, in particular, the human rights situation in Turkey and the Cyprus issue.
I think that this is a very significant decision.
If we look at change and coexistence as our goal, then we need to look no further than Northern Ireland where we have brought people together through European funds and dramatically changed the landscape of conflict.
Cultural change will ultimately concretise the ideals and ideas that we all have in promoting our future together.
The programmes will further the process of democratisation in Turkey and help ensure that, in time, the country can become an integral part of our partnership.
Mr President, all democratic parliamentarians ought to be able to vote for this recommendation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Italian delegation from Alleanza Nazionale is fully in favour of Turkey being included among the beneficiary countries of the Youth and SOCRATES programmes.
This is not just a deserved tribute to culture, but it is also an objective political assessment which springs, in particular, from the knowledge that we have a State - Turkey - as an interlocutor, which is still a long way from fully upholding human rights and the principles of freedom and democracy which the European Unions is based on.
Therefore, allowing Turkey access to the SOCRATES and Youth programmes does not confer legitimacy on a State that has not yet shown concrete evidence of maturity with regard to the rights of minorities, but it does contribute to helping young people to accelerate the slow and difficult process of achieving this.
Mr President, Commissioner, the extension of the Socrates and Youth programmes is a clear signal sent by the Union to Turkey, to those in Turkey who want Europe and who need Europe.
It is almost impossible, or at least extremely difficult, to approach this debate without mentioning Turkey' s possible accession to the Union.
As a result of the inflexible way it has dealt with the Kurdish question in particular, but with other matters too, Turkey has sent a very negative signal to Europe.
Ankara is still a long way from meeting the Copenhagen criteria.
The Commission is convinced that Turkey' s participation in programmes directed primarily at young people, such as exchange and encounter programmes, which strengthen society, democracy and respect for human rights, will foster friendship and understanding between peoples and cultures.
At first reading, the Commission accepted the amendments tabled by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, and for which I must thank the rapporteur, intended to encourage the implementation of preparatory action.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 8.10 p.m.)
