I shall pass on your proposal to the President, and I do not think there is any obstacle to inviting him to come to Parliament on 21 June.
I would also ask you to note that I did vote on Amendment No 18 by Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, but my vote is not shown in the Minutes.
Mr President, on page 8 of the Minutes, under the heading 'Approval of the President-designate of the Commission', there is a record of Parliament's vote approving the designation of Mr Prodi by the Heads of State and Government.
We asked to go to Pristina.
Mr President, in our debate last night on the Colom i Naval report on the financial perspectives 2000-2006, it was drawn to my attention that the indicative list of vote for this morning at 11 a.m.
This should be headed off before 11 a.m.
The incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the European Union is surely the most important and the most complex transformation of international law into the law of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 May the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force, and on that date the Schengen system was incorporated into the European Union framework.
Following yesterday's final deliberations in the Permanent Representatives Committee, the presidency is seeking the adoption of the decisions at the meeting of the ECOFIN Council on 10 May.
While a group of Member States has been pressing for the integration of these provisions into both the first and third pillars, a number of others favour incorporation into the third pillar only.
Now that the Executive Committee of the parties to the Schengen Agreement has had its last meeting, held last week on 28 April, which means that the fruits of Schengen can be defined conclusively, it is also possible to identify the areas in which cooperation with Norway and Iceland should take place in the future.
The presidency expects that the Council will approve the agreement at its meeting on 17 and 18 May and that the agreement can be signed as part of the EEA Council meeting which is being held at the same time.
A direct transfer of this form of cooperation into the EU framework is not possible.
The basic rule is that participation in the work of EU bodies is the sole prerogative of Member States.
Let me finish by dealing with the consultation of the European Parliament on the transfer of the Schengen cooperation arrangements into the EU framework.
So the fact that an agreement has been reached is quite a feat, and I congratulate the German Presidency on it.
We even said in our resolution of 14 January that if this did not happen, Parliament would have to consider bringing a case before the Court of Justice, and I still think that the next Parliament should consider doing this.
So I would like to ask the Council what it can do to get us out of this impasse.
All in all, I hope that this agreement will mean that both Parliament and the next Commission will be more closely involved in the policy areas that previously came under Schengen.
Iceland and Norway have been granted much greater authority in respect of border controls; they now share in the overall responsibility for monitoring the Union's external frontiers.
The role of the European Parliament has been too weak.
Mr President, the Group of the European Radical Alliance is very particular about issues of freedom.
It has established terms of association in splendid isolation, without consulting, and sometimes without even informing, the people's representatives, at least with regard to definitive texts.
I have no faith in claims that the construction of a supranational system of supervisory powers will benefit democracy in Europe.
Mr President, since I came to this House in 1994, Parliament has been very clear about the fact that the future of the European Union is at stake here, in this area bordering the third pillar, in this area of rights and freedoms.
To conclude, I should like to mention two aspects that the German Presidency has agreed will come under the first pillar: the protection of personal data and the issuing of visas.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs I am naturally pleased, along with all the other Members who have spoken, that there has been a successful outcome and that the presidency has been able to tell us that the Schengen agreement has now been integrated into the Treaty on European Union.
Commissioner Monti is to come up with a new proposal on visas as soon as possible after the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force.
Thank you, Mr Schapper.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
I would also like to say that my colleagues have been remarkably good-natured and entered into the discussion in a spirit of cooperation and good will.
It is quicker, simpler and consumers can do research on the market for the goods they want, much more simply.
Looking at the detail of the proposal, when you are trying to harmonise what is effectively contract law over 15 countries, that is difficult.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, electronic trade, e-commerce, is sweeping the world.
In Article 1 of the television directive, we said very clearly what new services mean and how new services are to be defined.
We also made a clear statement by saying that we want these new services to develop and that we shall discuss frameworks for the revision of the television directive again in the year 2002.
The fact that the German federal states are pressurising the German Government to have services comparable to broadcasting, as they are called here, exempted from the rules governing electronic commerce derives from the internal situation in Germany.
For more than 30 years, medicines have been subject to a complex system of rules, which serves primarily to protect patients and consumers.
Strict controls on the marketing, advertising and sale of medicinal products are in place at both the national and European levels.
Mr President, this long-awaited directive enriches the European Union's impressive body of legal texts establishing rules for many aspects of the information society.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this my last speech as a Member of the European Parliament I mentioned the Television Without Frontiers Directive.
This was the subject of my first ever report, back in 1988.
If I were to seek a leitmotiv running through my modest yet steadfast and devoted work over the fifteen years I have been here, I think I would find it in my determination to help provide Europe, our beloved Europe, with effective instruments to guarantee pluralism of information, protection of creativity, support for the dissemination of European works and new momentum in audiovisual production, making the most out of irrevocable differences between cultures and transforming an apparent weakness into a strength.
The Group of the European People's Party will vote against some of the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the issue of liability, particularly Amendments Nos 45, 46, 47, 48 and 50 to 54.
To sum up, Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party supports the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs to a very large degree.
My group will therefore be voting against many of the amendments on these points.
The proposal put forward in the Legal Affairs Committee on 'spamming' came from me, yet my group will be voting for an alternative proposal.
Mr President, International Consumers' Day was celebrated in March, with the theme of electronic commerce and consumer protection.
Commerce using digital networks should be at least as secure and safe as commerce in the physical world.
Mr President, it is fortunate that we have you as President of the sitting in this House at the moment because this is one of the last reports, if not the very last, by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and you were a very efficient member of that committee for many years.
And not only do the Member States and the European Union seem small but also the world in general as, at a speed of three hundred thousand kilometres per second, borders have no real significance.
But as they did not the EPP will be voting against a number of amendments which were passed in committee.
It would be very unfortunate if the European Parliament were to appear to be less liberal than the Commission, bearing in mind that we are talking of a very high technology, fast-moving area where Europe is in very grave danger of falling further and further behind the United States.
I have received 42 pieces of junk e-mail in the last week alone and I can tell you it is a bloody nuisance.
I have not personally received anything offensive but I know a number of my constituents have and 10 % of unsolicited e-mail is now pornographic.
Last month 23 000 signatures on a petition were presented to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of this House.
At the same time, consumers must be able to protect themselves effectively against unsolicited e-mail.
I would like to ask Commissioner Liikanen whether the way in which the Committee on Legal Affairs has formulated this in Amendment No 48 is acceptable.
I believe, however, that the big problem with the Internet is the protection and freedom of the individual.
In the transfer of information by satellite, cable or any other means, the network service providers, who are the intermediaries, are not the authors of the content.
They may have to accept responsibility a posteriori for the information that they supply and they may also ensure that there is a priori monitoring at the request of national authorities, but in very specific cases.
However, they cannot ensure permanent a priori monitoring of all the information - freely available on the Internet - to which they want to offer access.
Like my group, I will not vote for Amendments Nos 45, 46, 48 and 51, which have absolutely nothing to do with the issue and which would result in an impractical degree of censorship.
Section 4, Articles 12 and 13 of the directive provide that where a service provider is only passing on information passively, it is not liable for the content of that information.
These provisions contradict each other ...
The fact that messages are sent to create artificial consumption is often distressing to a person, as pornography and other such things are.
Mr President, forecasts suggest that, within just a few years, 500 million people will be on the Internet.
If the proposal in Amendment No 36 were to be implemented, some Internet service providers would be forced to establish themselves outside the Union, which would not be the best way of utilising the growth potential of the new Internet economy.
Having said that, I felt that in this respect the Commission's proposal was very well balanced.
As most of the speakers from my group have pointed out, I do not think that in order to protect consumers - a concern which is nevertheless quite legitimate - we should at the same time deprive them of all the advantages and all the benefits that this development can bring, both in employment terms and in economic terms.
This is why, along with my colleagues, I will vote in favour of certain amendments which aim to improve the situation, while on the other hand I will vote against others which I feel have upset the balance.
The issue being discussed now is one of the most important of all in economic and social terms, both because it particularly relates to young people and because it can lead to many jobs being created.
There can be no Europe without culture, as the great President Delors reminded us.
Even though much remains to be done in the new Community market, we have shown that it is possible to protect the interests of entrepreneurs and traders, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, and at the same time to defend the public in their role as consumers, who are the target and focus of the work of enterprises, both public and private.
It is particularly important as regards the unanimous backing of the internal market principles underlying the proposal.
There are, however, a number of amendments the Commission is not in a position to accept for one of the following four reasons.
This is the case of Amendments Nos 8, 24, 26, 30, 39, 58, 59, 60, 64 and 72.
It is also the case of amendments trying to modify the scope of application of the directive in a manner which is not consistent with other information society service directives (Amendments Nos 27 and 63), and of Amendment No 31 changing the proposed definition of commercial communications.
Amendment No 48 belongs to this group; there was a question on that.
It is also the case as regards Amendment No 71 narrowing down the list of contracts established in Article 9 of the proposal.
This is the case of amendments aimed at narrowing down the derogations in Annex 2 of the proposal (Amendments Nos 21, 68 and 74), and Amendment No 61 concerning court actions, although on this last issue the Commission recognises that there is a need to improve the possibilities of redress, especially in cross-border contracts.
The debate is closed.
Mrs Gebhardt, Fridays are as valid as any other day of the part-session and as long as this is the case you should not assume the contrary.
You should have spoken to the chairman of your group to see if it were possible to schedule it for another time.
More specifically, the McCarthy/Hatzidakis report on the general provisions on the Structural Funds should be voted on before the implementing reports, particularly before the Varela Suanzes-Carpegna report and the other implementing reports relating to the framework report on the Structural Funds.
Mr President, I am referring to the group of reports including the Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, Jöns, Kellett-Bowman, Colom i Naval and McCarthy/Hatzidakis reports.
But you are setting a dangerous precedent, as Parliament needs to be given the opportunity to reject the results of a conciliation by 314 votes.
I am sorry, Mrs Lulling, but the vote on your report requires a simple majority and not a qualified one, otherwise it would have been included in the voting times today.
This morning, in your absence, we asked that the President and the Bureau should authorise a delegation from this Parliament to visit Dr Rugova in Rome at some time in the next few days.
Mrs Pack, as you and all your colleagues are aware, the Conference of Presidents is responsible for authorising this journey.
Mr President, I do not agree with your interpretation of how we take the vote on the structural fund programme, because the general regulation is actually the regulation governing every other aspect of the implementing regulations.
Mr President, the Council also accepts the amendments as agreed.
The President declared the common position approved as amended The answer is the same as before.
During the conciliation process and the trialogue, we agreed that the text of Amendment No 2 on Article 1(2) must henceforth read: 'this limit may be increased up to 2 %'.
The Council is also in agreement, Mr President, as established at the trialogue.
The President declared the common position approved as amended Mr President, prior to the vote on this subject, there were discussions in the House on the question of the majorities that would be necessary for us to adopt the new interinstitutional agreement and the associated financial perspective.
Until the present time, the standard practice of this House has been to decide on interinstitutional agreements by a qualified majority.
Thank you very much, Mr Samland.
I have in fact examined the report by the Committee on Budgets in great detail and I have asked the Legal Service to give its opinion.
As mentioned in the note your committee sent - which I have examined in great detail - and as you have indeed said, it is not stated either in the Treaties or in the Rules that interinstitutional agreements require an absolute majority.
Along with the Legal Service, I have also examined the argument you have put forward on whether or not this decision in itself covers budget decisions, in other words, whether or not it covers budget decisions which, according to Article 272, require a qualified majority.
I agree with the Legal Service's conclusion that it does not cover budget decisions because the agreement is neither a rule nor a budget decision in itself.
And there are rulings by the Court of Justice that confirm this point, which are also quoted in the Legal Service's report which I will make available to you.
In the Colom i Naval report, one paragraph and also Amendment No 27 directly relate to Article 12 of the interinstitutional agreement, an article which alters the maximum rate of increase for the duration of the seven year period.
Paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 3 in Annex IV of our Rules of Procedure require an absolute majority of Members.
This does not, however, mean that the institutions are not autonomous enough to decide to increase the required majority in a particular situation, for example in order to enhance the binding effect ascribed to the maximum rate of increase in Article 203.
We are making a change here and are fixing the maximum rate of increase for the next seven years.
Mr President, I should firstly like to note that, according to what you are saying, the Legal Service and the President made a mistake in 1988 and 1993 because, by following the Legal Service's report at the time, it was understood on both occasions that a qualified majority was required and it was put to the vote in that way.
According to the opinion you have expressed, this act would be null and void and would be at odds with the 1988 decision you mentioned.
Mr President, I would first of all like to pay tribute to Mr Samland, who we know is in favour of the interinstitutional agreement, and who puts concern for the law and for the political authority of interinstitutional agreements before any other consideration.
On a more fundamental level, I think that the main issue in this matter is that this Parliament, on its last day, intends to bind its successor and its successor's successor to a fundamental limitation of the budgetary powers laid down in the Treaty, budgetary powers which this Parliament mainly exercises by qualified majority.
I would like to add that this agreement follows on from the institutional agreement of 1993, which was agreed by qualified majority and which explicitly states that it can only be revoked by qualified majority.
This new agreement implies the former agreement being revoked and replaced and it must therefore be passed by qualified majority.
In short, Mr President, at the meeting point of the political and the legal, I think that you are grossly under-estimating the significance of the emergence of interinstitutional agreements in our system.
What you are doing - if you pass this law by simple majority - will mean that, tomorrow, on a misty Friday morning, with a majority of 48 votes to 47, a makeshift Parliament will be able to abolish and destroy not only the financial perspectives, but the entire structure of interinstitutional cooperation that has been put in place over the last twenty months.
No, Mr Elles, this issue has been dealt with.
There will be no vote on this issue.
Mr President, before we come to the vote on the revised Amendment No 27, I would like to question its admissibility.
When we have had to vote on interinstitutional agreements, we have had a report and we have had the approval of the interinstitutional agreement, which was proposed in the report.
I expressed my position concerning the interinstitutional agreement on the CFSP, and my position has not changed.
Mr President, at its meeting on Monday, which was authorised by you and was properly convened, the Committee on Budgets took its basic decision on the adoption or rejection of the interinstitutional agreement.
Mr President, forgive me for taking the floor again, but before the final vote and pursuant to Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose that the Colom i Naval report be referred back to committee.
I think that the discussion that has just taken place, the arguments that were put forward and the conditions in which the vote took place are all arguments in favour of a referral back to committee.
I therefore propose to the House to vote for the Colom i Naval report to be referred back to committee.
You were in favour.
Mr President, we heard yesterday evening in the debate on this report that our rapporteur himself is not in favour of this particular report.
Secondly, this morning it was still impossible to obtain the correct version of my report from the distribution counter.
The version that was available there this morning for the second reading still indicated the wrong legal basis, namely the Maastricht Treaty.
Another possibility would be to postpone the vote until tomorrow as it seems that the Committee of the Regions may give a favourable opinion tomorrow.
To avoid the possibility of our vote being declared invalid, since we do not yet have the opinion of the Committee of the Regions, I suggest that we postpone the vote until tomorrow.
The rapporteur's position is a very sensible one.
At the end of the debate this morning Commissioner Liikanen told us that the Commission would not accept this amendment even if it is adopted by this Assembly.
I wish to put on record that many of us in this House find it unacceptable that the Commission refuses to accept, for technical reasons, an amendment which is a clear expression of the political will of Parliament.
Parliament adopted the decision Mr President, a few moments ago, when I requested, as was my right under Rule 129, that the Colom i Naval report be referred back to committee, Mr Samland felt the need to criticise me for my absence from the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on Monday evening.
I would also like to add that I had attended the previous meeting on 29 April, the one that is mentioned in the report, and that I voted against the Colom i Naval report, which was not altered very much during the committee's meeting on Monday night.
I will be voting today in favour of zero tolerance towards all forms of fraud, as myself and my Labour colleagues have done consistently whenever such issues have come before us.
The Labour Government lost no time in setting tough new standards in public life in Britain when it came to power two years ago.
By then, 18 years of Tory sleaze had weakened the very fabric of public trust underpinning British democracy.
Indeed, today voters will elect the first Parliament in Scotland for nearly 300 years and the first all-Wales Assembly ever.
In my own region, the new North West Regional Assembly could one day form the basis of regional government for the people of the North West - if they so desire it.
Labour will not flinch from pushing for the highest possible standards in public life, whether in London, Brussels, Edinburgh or Manchester.
McCarthy and Hatzidakis recommendation (A4-0264/99) On 28 April the European Commission adopted the preliminary draft budget of the European Union for the 2000 financial year, the first year for the new financial perspectives.
The commitment appropriations proposed for structural measures are in accordance with the European Council decision: EUR 32.678 billion shared between the Structural Funds (EUR 30 billion) and the Cohesion Fund (EUR 2.6 billion), which represents a 7 % decrease compared with 1999, in other words, a large decrease, and to a certain extent, one that is TOO LARGE.
With regard to the Structural Funds in general, the Council regulation only envisaged three Community initiatives (Interreg, Leader and EQUAL).
The European Parliament managed to reach a compromise with the Council concerning the inclusion of a fourth initiative, URBAN.
For your information, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the extension of the codecision procedure, the European Parliament intends to change its position on 49 first readings under the cooperation procedure and on 15 texts adopted at first reading under the cooperation procedure.
The European Parliament only intends to uphold its opinion on three regulations resulting from Agenda 2000, including the one that we are debating today.
With the same aim, the rapporteur has proposed compromise amendments to prevent the reform from being blocked.
I hope that the Council will ratify them quickly, as we cannot afford any more delays.
I did not vote in favour of the final resolutions on the reform of the CAP for the following reasons: 1.
it does not help to further economic and social cohesion in European rural areas; mechanisms for weighting productivity in such a way as to benefit farmers with lower yields have not been created, despite the European Parliament's approval of such mechanisms; 3.
it does not defend European agriculture in the face of the negotiations in the new round of the World Trade Organisation; 6.
lastly, because this has been a reform of the status quo, lacking in political courage and quite incapable of preparing European farming for the increased challenges of globalisation, and geared chiefly towards more efficient farmers and agricultural sectors.
In other words, it has been a reform very much at odds with the general principles for reform approved by the European Parliament in its general report of June 1998.
The determination and perseverance of the members of the European Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy and of our two rapporteurs have finally paid off.
I welcome this and I thank our colleagues for their persuasive efforts.
Following the conclusions of the Berlin European Council, our Committee on Regional Policy had to fight on an important issue for all the people of Europe: establishing a fourth Community initiative, URBAN, which is aimed at the economic and social regeneration of cities and urban neighbourhoods in crisis with a view to promoting sustainable development.
It has been recognised that our point of view is correct.
The 2000-2006 perspectives can now be launched.
It has been a long, arduous and difficult battle, sometimes strewn with obstacles, but it has always been an exciting one, and I am pleased to have been a part of it.
The Objective 1 regions get the lion's share, with 69.7 % of structural funding, compared with 11.5 % for Objective 2.
It may also seem strange that during the negotiations Objective 2, which is dedicated to industrial and rural regions undergoing economic restructuring, should have been sacrificed, to the benefit of Objectives 1 and 3: its budgetary envelope will be ECU 22.5 billion for the 1999-2006 period, which is more or less the same figure as for the 1994-1999 period.
Rural regions eligible for Objective 5b will be among the main victims of this situation: in France, one third of the population eligible under this Objective will no longer receive structural funding after the transition period.
The future of rural areas seems to be all the more uncertain given that the Commission and Parliament, always concerned with seizing new fields of competence for themselves, plan to develop an integrated urban policy, in contempt of the principle of subsidiarity.
The Orlando report, which was hastily adopted on Tuesday without even being put to the vote, echoes President Prodi's investiture speech in calling for this European policy for cities.
Once again, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations would like to reiterate its desire to see the European Union concentrate its efforts on the existing common policies (the CAP, the CFP, etcetera) rather than spreading itself across an ever greater number of sectors, with a danger of worsening the inevitably inefficient scattering of public funds and encouraging an increase in public spending, which is always harmful.
This example is quite a good illustration of France's position at the end of the negotiations on Agenda 2000.
The decision-making process which led to the establishment of new Structural Funds regulations has been followed attentively by the European Parliament.
This result is particularly important for cities, since it reinforces and boosts the credibility of the Action Plan for sustainable cities submitted by the Commission last November in Vienna, and because it reinforces the instruments already contained in Objectives 1 and 2 of the Structural Funds for urban areas.
This is the Abruzzi region, which was removed from Objective 1 of the Structural Funds in 1994.
The Berlin European Council mentioned this as one of the 'special cases' which are listed as an annex to the report which we are about to approve.
Nonetheless, paragraph 44 of the Council conclusions does not detail what is meant by the special attention which the Council quite rightly intends to pay to this region.
The European Parliament has significantly improved the Commission proposal.
Euro funds have already made a lasting improvement to the lives of the people of the North-West.
In my own part of the world in Manchester, the EU has pumped 13 million pounds into the Metrolink light rail network.
The EU also helped build the Trafford Park industrial estate, creating over 15, 000 jobs.
Misunderstandings by the Commission and the Council threatened to undermine the result of painstaking work, with the risk of reducing negotiations to a trial of strength between the institutions.
The key role of urban and metropolitan areas in regional development must be acknowledged.
In general terms we are in favour of reform, but we have a few reservations about aspects which have not yet been explored in sufficient detail, such as, for example, the impact on regions which, for the sake of the principle of concentration, run the risk of seeing their development process come to a standstill.
Mr President, I voted against the Colom i Naval report, in particular for the procedural reasons that were mentioned at the time of the vote and which I mentioned myself.
It is wrong, firstly because there is not an absolute majority, something which you yourself insisted on for the interinstitutional agreement of 17 July 1998 on the common foreign and security policy, an agreement that I fought along with my group.
It is important for the EU to ensure that it has the financial resources necessary for admitting the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as Cyprus.
I do not think that we have the opinion of the Committee on the Regions yet on these general provisions concerning the Structural Funds.
The services tell me that the opinion of the Committee of the Regions on this report was not necessary, and no one requested this opinion during the procedure, as had been the case with the other report you mentioned.
The Collins report proposes the continuation of the Cohesion Fund for the four beneficiary Member States: Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland.
In addition, it is a tool for federalist redistribution, whose aim is more to gain support for the Commission among the beneficiary Member States and their people rather than to enable them to overcome their difficulties.
This is why the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations could not vote in favour of the Collins report.
The Green Group votes against the recommendation on the Cohesion Fund Regulation because most of the innovative requests expressed by the European Parliament in the first reading aiming to strengthen and integrate the role of the Cohesion Fund within the European structural policy have not been taken into serious consideration in the new regulation.
Görlach second report (A4-0229/99) For several years, the people of the European Union have been demonstrating more and more clearly their rejection of ultra-liberal policies and the damaging effects that they have on employment, incomes, social protection systems and public services, the environment and land use.
They have met with a response, even in Berlin, where the Commission's most ultra-liberal plans were rejected.
However, this debate is also an open one, as the European Parliament elections take it to the level of all of the people of Europe.
By voting against the ultra-liberal regulations of Agenda 2000, I want to give those people every opportunity to intervene.
Görlach, Mulder, Graefe zu Baringdorf, Garot, Goepel, Fantuzzi and P.
Martin second reports (A4-0229/99, A4-0213/99, A4-0231/99, A4-0212/99, A4-0232/99, A4-0215/99 and A4-0223/99) The debate on Agenda 2000 has lasted more than a year, and has taken up the bulk of the work of Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
At the end of my mandate, in May 1999, my political positions on social issues such as agriculture, food, rural development and the environment remain the same.
The reform of the CAP was necessary, but not in the form proposed in Agenda 2000 by the European Commission.
In our debates we have demonstrated a certain level of consensus on what we now call the 'European agricultural model', which on many points is at odds with the ultra-liberal aims of the countries of the Cairns Group and of the United States.
I was pleased to see that the majority of my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development came to the same conclusions as I did.
European agriculture is in a very bad situation.
The fact that the date given in that statement coincides with the end of the negotiations in 2003 is surely not a coincidence.
A direct and across-the board reduction in compensatory aid will therefore upset the balance in European agriculture.
This being the case, I suppose I shall have to bring myself to give my approval in the end to the reports on the reform of the common agricultural policy in the framework of Agenda 2000, and thereby to give the green light for the political decision of the agriculture ministers and the Berlin summit to be adopted in legislative form by the Council.
Pronk recommendation for second reading (A4-0155/99) The European Parliamentary Labour Party is in opposition to Amendment No 7 of the report because it has unnecessary repetition of existing EU legislation and lack of specific clarity on the issue of adaptation of machinery or replacement of all machinery whether or not it was practical to do so.
Oddy report (A4-0248/99) The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of a proposal on electronic commerce which will safeguard consumers' interests on the Internet and at the same time remove barriers for service providers that are established in the EU.
The negotiations between the parties to the agreement will not be concluded until late in the year.
Moreover, the proposal does not contain any indications as to how the involvement of civil society can be promoted and how respect for workers' rights can be ensured.
It is less than a year since Parliament ratified the Interim Agreement on the basis that the human rights clause it contained would be a test of the Mexican Government's seriousness in ensuring human rights cooperation was central to relations with the EU.
We also expected that human rights issues would play a central role in negotiations between the Mexicans and the European Commission.
Our sister party, the PRD in Mexico and human rights NGOs believe it is premature for this Parliament to ratify the full agreement.
The rapporteur has seriously misrepresented the human rights situation in Mexico.
The overall agreement contains no mechanisms for enforcing compliance with human rights.
Aglietta report (A4-0169/99) The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations did not vote for the Aglietta report on the implementing powers conferred on the Commission, mainly because the European Parliament is seeking to distort the meaning of certain new provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to alter the institutional balance to its benefit.
Above all, it did not modify Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union, which gives the European Council (and thus the hierarchy of the different Councils) the role of instigating EU policies, nor did it modify Article 202 of the EC Treaty, which gives the Council the sole responsibility for determining the implementing powers that will be conferred on the Commission.
We therefore think that the Aglietta report, which claims for the European Parliament the right to interfere in implementing measures, particularly through the granting of the right to revoke a decision, contradicts the philosophy of the current institutions of the Union.
Moreover, it is questionable whether it is actually in the interests of the European Parliament to claim such a right.
The battle that I have been fighting since I was first given a mandate is finally bearing fruit, thanks to the perseverance of a rapporteur who has always been willing to listen and with whom I have had great pleasure in working.
The amendments made to the Commission proposal that the Council is prepared to accept considerably improve access to information on the Community decision procedures; these procedures are too secretive, whether they concern the work of the committees, the documents submitted, the agendas, the list of participants or the committees' work schedule.
Respect for the principle of subsidiarity would be a first step, but that does not feature in the report.
On the contrary, this supposed simplification is a pretext for reinforcing the supranational dimension of the European Union.
The Commission, which already has a monopoly on initiative, would thus seize executive power in Europe to become the government of the European Union, with the Council being reduced to the role of a second parliamentary chamber, making decisions by majority.
Resolution on Kosovo Mr President, like many people from France and other European countries, we are appalled by the increase in the exodus of Albanians from Kosovo and by the parallel escalation in NATO bombing.
What is even more serious is that this error of judgement is in danger of guiding us towards the wrong solutions.
To start with, there is the semantic confusion: the air war against the whole of Yugoslavia is described as the 'situation in Kosovo'.
And thus, although in the last few days some opportunities for negotiation seem to be emerging, with Ibrahim Rugova travelling freely to Rome and the three American soldiers being released, this Parliament, in its last few hours of work, opts to be led down the humiliating path of NATO propaganda with this vote on Kosovo, and fails in its political role.
I voted against this resolution because it contains no contribution from the European Parliament to help us get out of an avoidable, terrible, and to cap it all, ineffective war.
There is no assessment of the absolutely trifling role played by Europe.
Subsequently, an international conference on the Balkans will need to be convened under the auspices of the UN and the OSCE, the aim being to stabilise the situation in the region and to guarantee Kosovo a high degree of autonomy within existing borders.
Furthermore, my position is underpinned by the following: 1.My question to the Council H-0387/22-4-99 was considered, correctly and from a strictly procedural viewpoint, to belong to the general debate on Kosovo.
This, of course, is the main issue and the main reason for demanding the immediate cessation of the bombing and the quest for a political solution. 2.The same holds in respect of the draft motion for a resolution of 24 April 1999, which is: The European Parliament: 1.Unequivocally denounces and condemns the destructive bombardment of Belgrade Television (22 April 1999).2.Expresses its shock and sadness at the heavy human casualties (ten dead and dozens wounded) among the workers in the News department.3.Regards this as a barbaric attack against fundamental human rights, freedom of speech and expression, and freedom of the press.4.Believes that, in this light, any appeal to 'military' or 'humanitarian' expediency is unacceptable.5.Calls on the President to forward this resolution to the Council, the governments of the Member States, the Yugoslavian Government, the International Reporters' Union and NATO.- Resolution on the European Council meeting in Cologne I wish to use this brief explanation of vote to state that I cannot support the integration of the WEU into the EU; nor do I want to see the Schengen acquis become part of the third pillar.
Resolution on institutional reform (B4-0428/99) Mr President, in our opinion, the resolution that the European Parliament has just adopted on the method that should be used to reform the European institutions following the Treaty of Amsterdam does not make any improvements on the past and, as usual, will result in reforms from the top with no initiative or input from the people of Europe.
For a start, the national parliaments should all be consulted and all of their proposals together should form the basic document to be discussed by the Member States during the subsequent negotiations.
Mr Biagio De Giovanni, chairman of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, has succeeded in covering in a few paragraphs the main points that need to be made concerning the forthcoming institutional reform.
During previous debates I had noticed that some of our colleagues had not yet registered Parliament's new role in this investiture.
The new role of the President-designate in constituting the College of Commissioners is close to that of what we in Belgium call a 'formateur ': his point of view will count alongside that of the Member States.
These new practices bring us closer to the situation that operates in our countries, and will be perceived by the people as a move towards democracy.
With regard to the forthcoming institutional reform, it is highly desirable that Parliament's voice should be better heard, and that, in contrast to the former method, which was extremely inadequate, reform should be based on real interinstitutional dialogue, something which is perfectly expressed in paragraphs 8 and 12 of our resolution.
It therefore runs counter to my convictions and does not have my backing.
I voted against the interinstitutional agreement for the following reasons.
Finally, the way in which the President changed the vote on Amendment No 27 at the last moment from a qualified majority to a simple majority confirms his reputation as a manipulator.
This evening I will speak on the Malangré report as Socialist Group shadow.
After the vote, when I returned to my office I found a fax from my Coventry office.
I wish to reassure the President that, in my view, my first duty is to Parliament and to my constituents and I shall carry on doing that to the best of my ability.
Applause Mrs Oddy, as you are well aware, Members' duties are individual duties.
The problems that may exist in each group, or within each group with the parties Members were elected to represent, are not related to the workings of Parliament itself.
I must clarify this point as it is established in our Rules of Procedure, Mrs Oddy.
I ask the President of Parliament to address the Moroccan authorities in order to protest against this refusal to grant entry to a French citizen and to demand that Abraham Serfaty be allowed to return.
Mrs Pailler, as you know, there are certain deadlines established for the topical and urgent debate.
Although there were high hopes in the aftermath of the resignation of President Suharto that the way would at last be open to a peaceful resolution of the problems of East Timor, after a quarter of a century of bloodshed in which a third of the population has died as a consequence of the Indonesian invasion of 1975, those hopes have not been fulfilled.
The right of the people of East Timor to reject autonomy and demand full independence must be fully ensured.
At the end of this Parliament it is important that we should reaffirm our support for these people and their rights and I am proud that in my last speech here I shall be doing precisely this.
Thank you very much, Mr Newens.
We are sure that, even though this is your last speech here, your work will continue to be as positive as it has been throughout this parliamentary term, as I have witnessed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament can be proud of the role it has played during this parliamentary term and of its important part in finding a solution to the problems of East Timor.
The agreement concluded between Portugal and Indonesia yesterday in New York, under the auspices of the United Nations, is a ray of hope for a solution of this martyrised people's problems.
If leaders continue to be killed, if the population has to flee to the mountains and is afraid of voting, if the thousands of pro-Indonesian people who were transferred to Timor last year are to have the right to vote, and if leaders like Xanana Gusmão are still to be kept under arrest, then I believe that it is impossible to hold a free and fair referendum for East Timor.
I believe, Commissioner, that the United Nations and the European Union have an important role to play in ensuring that the Timorese problem is resolved justly.
We are leaving this Parliament with a feeling that in this case at least we have done our duty as elected representatives.
I hope that the European Union and the United Nations will lend a helping hand to whatever government is in power in Indonesia.
East Timor is, of course, in a very special position because of its past, and the situation there is explosive, but the concern that we felt has possibly been slightly alleviated by the New York agreement between Portugal and Indonesia that various people have mentioned.
This would not just bring stability to East Timor, it could also have a positive influence on the entire region, or at least the immediate region of the Sunda islands, of which East Timor forms part.
Mr President, the signing of the agreement between Portugal and Indonesia yesterday in New York under the auspices of the United Nations, an agreement on holding a referendum in East Timor with a view to self-determination for the Timorese people, is a historic moment that we should welcome.
The contingent of 600 UN representatives who are to organise and observe the referendum process consists of unarmed civilians, possibly supplemented by 250 police, also unarmed, without any means of defending anyone - including themselves - in the face of the activity of the pro-integrationist militias who are spreading terror in Dili and the rest of the territory with impunity.
If an impartial military force cannot be guaranteed in Timor, the real choice in the referendum will not be between autonomy and independence, but between integration and staying alive.
The United Nations, the European Union and the international community in general must maintain pressure on Indonesia so as to force it to accept a military presence to guarantee the neutrality of the referendum and to stop this turning into a sham with fairly predictable and bloody consequences.
Mr President, there has been a clear breakthrough, in international terms, in the situation in East Timor this year.
We would all certainly call on the Commission to do all it can to defuse the situation in East Timor, so that the referendum on 8 August can be held in a peaceful atmosphere.
For this to happen, the European Union should participate in an international effort to guarantee an international presence in East Timor.
I hope that the new agreement will be a breakthrough, but at the same time I would join the previous speaker in urging that practical steps should be taken, including by the European Union, to ensure that appropriate pressure really is brought to bear.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should first of all welcome the agreement reached in New York yesterday between the Portuguese Government and Indonesia concerning East Timor.
This is very much the culmination of a long process in which Parliament and the European Union have played their part, and in which the struggle of the people of East Timor has certainly played a key role, but at the same time we must pay tribute here to the importance of the diplomatic triumph achieved by the Portuguese Government yesterday in New York.
But I wish to emphasise that placing the entire referendum process under the aegis of the United Nations Security Council will inevitably make it necessary for the appropriate security forces to intervene if Indonesia does not comply with its duty to disarm the militias and to ensure this process takes place without interference from armed terrorist groups.
You asked whether or not the European Parliament would participate as an observer during the referendum, as it usually does.
In any event, the European Union's financial contribution to the trust fund is guaranteed.
One of the commitments in the United Nations agreement is to disarm the militias, as Mr Barros Moura pointed out.
At the end of the day, it is difficult at this stage to predict how the agreement signed in New York in the early hours of this morning will develop between now and 8 August.
The first relates to the trust fund set up by Kofi Annan to carry out the whole referendum process, on the basis of the agreement between Indonesia and Portugal.
I would imagine that there will also be donations from other countries: from the Member States, from the United States and from Japan.
Irrespective of the outcome on 8 August, the Commission is already considering a plan that could in theory become a cooperation programme that would enhance our involvement.
Thank you, Mr Marín, for being as generous as usual.
Therefore, with my extensive experience, I must warn you to be careful, Mr Marín.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner Marín, above all I would like to pay tribute to the Palestinian National Council, which has postponed the date of the unilateral declaration of independence scheduled for 4 May.
It has made a gesture of political far-sightedness and unilateral generosity towards the peace process, it has avoided a period of upheaval and a negative influence on the elections in Israel and a serious crisis in the peace process, with the danger of military conflict flaring up again.
This is what the European Parliament called for in its resolution of 11 March, in which, while recognising the fundamental right of the Palestinian people to found their own State, it considered it essential for the international guarantors of the Oslo agreements solemnly to reaffirm their commitment to achieving all the objectives of the peace process, thereby giving the Palestinian National Authority the support required to justify an extension of the period of application of the provisional agreement beyond the date of 4 May 1999.
Mr President, the Palestinian authorities are to be praised for their decision to accept an extension of the transitional period beyond 4 May.
Without it, an escalation in the conflict would have been very likely, but now the Palestinian decision may increase the mutual trust that is needed for a lasting peace.
It was significant that the agreement of 23 October 1998 showed that constant external pressure is needed to keep the peace process going.
In conclusion, I should like to ask the Commission, and in this case Commissioner Marín, what the situation is with the hospital in Gaza that is being built with European funding.
I am pleased that the Palestinians have allowed common sense to prevail by refraining from declaring an independent state on 4 May.
Mr President, like my colleagues, I would like to say that, in order to protect the peace process, the Palestinians have demonstrated their good will by agreeing to postpone the date for the declaration of the Palestinian State, which the Oslo Agreement had set for 4 May.
Along with my colleagues, I welcome the fact that the Berlin European Council recognised the Palestinian people's right of self-determination and their right to establish a state.
However, the reason I asked leave to speak was to thank, on behalf of my group, two men in this Chamber who have campaigned tirelessly for the rights of the Palestinians in that same spirit.
Applause Mr President, I welcome this decision as an extremely positive one, just as I welcome the decision taken by the Palestinian Government not to unilaterally declare the creation of a state at the beginning of May.
I believe that this would have seriously interfered in the electoral process taking place in Israel.
I hope that a democratic government like the one country has had until now will emerge as a result of this process so that the negotiations will continue and arrive at a positive outcome for this peace process.
I am convinced that the decision by the Berlin European Council on this matter was very positive and that it will help maintain the European Union's influence in this area.
Mr President, the European Commission also believes that the Palestinian leaders have taken the right decision in the interests of the Palestinian people by postponing the 4 May date for proclaiming a state.
Better still, the Commission believes that this positive move was possible in part due to the courage displayed by the European Council in adopting the so-called Berlin Declaration on the Middle East.
Our common foreign and security policy has worked properly in this instance as this declaration was important in guaranteeing the peaceful and constructive continuation of the peace process in spite of the fact that the first transitional period established by the Oslo Agreements had come to an end.
As you know, the Commission already called for an increased political and economic role for the Union in the Middle East in its communication of January 1998.
This would allow accelerated negotiations on issues relating to the region's permanent status to begin at the same time, with a view to concluding these negotiations within the set period of one year.
We must take all steps to ensure that the Wye Plantation Agreement does not become another Israeli or Palestinian agreement that is not applied.
In this context, there should be no attempts to introduce new conditions.
In this respect, the Commission is still working closely with Mr Moratinos, the European Union's special envoy responsible for common dialogue.
The European Commission must do what it can do well.
Thank you, Mr Marín.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
But we feel the time has now come to do something out of the ordinary: we would like to use this famous year 2000 - a year of great symbolic value for all the countries of the world, not just those with a particular tradition, history or religion - to make an exceptional gesture.
This is the request we are making in this resolution, which I think will meet with the approval of all the groups in Parliament.
It should be pointed out that the United Nations Commission on Human Rights approved three such resolutions in succession: in 1997, 1998 and 1999.
As Mr Imbeni has just said, the time has come to use the year 2000 to take that qualitative leap and to present a proposal to the United Nations General Assembly for a universal moratorium.
There is a majority of 101 countries, out of the total of 190 in the international community, who are in favour of a universal moratorium, and the Treaties that have been adopted and the constitutional changes that have been made by many countries show that it is not simply a theoretical majority.
The conditions are therefore in place for launching an offensive that will undoubtedly not be the final step, but which could be a decisive move towards the definitive abolition of the death penalty in the world.
Thank you, Mrs Lenz.
Mr President, I am delighted to make this last speech while you are presiding, and on this subject, as you have also helped us a great deal.
On 21 April, a fortnight ago, I became the first Member of the European Parliament to ever enter death row, in order to meet Mumia Abu Jamal, a political prisoner who has been sentenced to death, and on whose behalf Parliament has passed many resolutions.
Something of me stayed in that prison in Greene, where 111 prisoners out of 600 were awaiting execution.
Mumia Abu Jamal talked to me first of all about the tragedy in Denver, which had happened the day before, about Kosovo, and about the culture of death that is consuming American society.
In order to convince the Council and all of my colleagues to never give up on this issue, allow me to tell you a short anecdote.
I also hope that we will not be saying goodbye to the debates themselves, because in the ten years I have been in Parliament I have heard it said almost every month that this would be the last time we would be having such a debate.
Applause Mr Bertens, you are normally very calm and composed when you take the floor, even when commenting on the most sensitive of matters.
If Turkey maintains it is a European country, a country fit for the European Union, these European values, these Western standards, must be applied there.
We must continue to argue along these lines in order to ensure that homosexuals are not treated in such a way.
Thirdly, all the evidence is that the trials of both Anwar Ibrahim and Lim Guan Eng were politically motivated.
In conclusion, we have to urge the Malaysian authorities to recognise that the development of further political and economic cooperation between the European Union and Malaysia will largely depend on the opening of a serious dialogue that will lead to moves in Malaysia for the observation of basic human rights in that country.
Djibouti Mr President, as in December 1997, unfortunately we are again having to turn our attention to human rights violations in Djibouti and in particular to the situation of political prisoners, who are not only subjected to unlawful imprisonment, which is unacceptable in our eyes, but also to every kind of ill-treatment, which in some cases has caused the deaths of some of them.
The government of Djibouti also undertook to respect this principle when it signed up to the Lomé Convention, Article 5 of which states that each signatory shall be guided by the principles of respect for human rights and democratisation of their own country.
I think Article 5 should be borne in mind because if, first and foremost, the specific situation of political prisoners and, more generally, the human rights situation are not improved, the application of this article and the measures which derive from it is an option worth considering.
Thank you for those words, Mr Vecchi, and for the commitment which you have shown to the problems of the ACP countries and also demonstrated in the committee which has been responsible for all aspects of cooperation and development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several colleagues who have taken the floor before me have mentioned Article 5 of the Lomé Convention, to which Djibouti is also a signatory, which establishes a genuine interrelation and operational interplay between respect for and enjoyment of political and civil rights and fundamental human freedoms and development aid.
Mr President, it is sometimes difficult to find different or new words to say what we think of the violations of human rights that we discuss during every sitting in this House.
Mr President, I think that if we delay we are in danger of being faced with an even more distressing and even more difficult situation in a few months' time, if that is possible given the fate of those whom we are discussing.
International Criminal Court Mr President, I think we would all recognise that the Rome Conference on 18 July 1998 on the Statute of the permanent International Criminal Court represented a step forward in terms of international institutions and in the international legal order concerning human rights.
The Liberal Group unanimously endorses the call for such a court to be set up.
This week - in the course of my three final speeches in the European Parliament - it has given me great satisfaction to be able to speak out in favour of peace and freedom in Kosovo, to support the EU's fight for the abolition of the death penalty, and to argue for an international tribunal to judge war crimes.
Mr President, I believe it is really very significant that this Parliament, which has concerned itself so much with human rights issues, should conclude its topical and urgent debates on human rights for this term by turning its attention once again to the question of the International Criminal Court.
What is needed is an international forum in which - before there is recourse to military means - issues can be managed and resolved in a dignified way.
It is exactly the same with international human rights.
Mr President, I should like to pass on the European Commission's reactions to the different points that have been raised in this urgent debate on human rights.
As regards the death penalty and the establishment of a universal moratorium on capital punishment, as you are all aware, on 28 April, the European Union did in fact take the initiative of submitting a draft resolution on the death penalty to the Commission on Human Rights.
This resolution was approved by 30 of the 53 member countries of this Commission and was sponsored by 72 states, seven more than in the previous session.
Of course, whether or not the United Nations General Assembly adopts a resolution is in the hands of its members.
As regards the Kurdish issue and the Öcalan case, I would point out that, as you all know, the European Union adopted a declaration on the arrest of Abdullah Öcalan and the trial that is to take place in the near future.
And, of course, the Commission fully supports the declaration made by the Union.
The Commission will pay close attention to the trial and the procedures followed.
The Commission is still concerned that if fundamental human rights continue to be restricted, such as the right to peaceful assembly and the right to freedom of expression and opinion, this may give rise to a climate of instability and social unrest in Malaysia.
In all its contacts with the country's authorities, the Commission has reiterated its position on the respect for fundamental human freedoms and the rule of law.
The Commission has also taken note of the recent proposals made by the Government of Djibouti which seek to allow the Red Cross or any other independent bodies to carry out inspection visits of the prisons.
And, of course, we warmly welcome this position from the new government.
But of course we also believe, in particular, that our Member States should set an example and speed up the ratification procedures in the various national parliaments.
I should also like to draw to your attention to the fact that the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia has been receiving financial support from the Community for several years.
The Commission intends to continue to provide this support within the terms of the regulation adopted by the Council, which creates the legal basis that allows us to carry out and develop actions in the field of human rights.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
In fact bad luck has nothing to do with it, and if we consider the situation objectively, we can clearly see three levels of responsibility.
Finally, and I will not dwell very long on this point, there is the responsibility of France, which has been caricatured by the fact that the eighteenth coup d'état in the Comoros coincides with the opening of the trial in Paris of the mercenary, Bob Denard, who in 1975, 1978, 1989 and 1995 was himself responsible for four coups d'état in Moroni and who is suspected of murdering two Comoran heads of state.
The stabilisation of the Comoros is therefore the condition necessary for peace in the entire region.
The Islamic Republic of Comoros is a state which for many years now, virtually ever since independence, has been living through a serious institutional crisis, as previous speakers recalled.
A few days ago a framework agreement was reached - helped on its way by the unobtrusive but extremely important work of President Michel Rocard, to whom we pay tribute - which did and still does provide a good basis on which to re-establish conditions enabling coexistence between the various islands and the very survival of a state in the Comoros.
For that reason it is important that the representatives of the island of Anjouan be allowed to consult the people and to sign up to the agreement which all the others had endorsed before the coup.
Furthermore, the international community, working inter alia through the Organisation of African Unity, but with the European Union playing an active role, should back this agreement and get to work preparing an economic assistance programme of both emergency and long-term aid, to allow the country to recover in economic terms as well.
Mr President, the European Commission shares the European Parliament's concerns over the situation in the Comoros following the coup d'état which took place on 30 April 1999.
As you are well aware, the Commission reacted immediately and stressed the European Union's disapproval to the chief of staff, Colonel Azali Assoumani, drawing his attention to the principles on which our cooperation is based, the main elements of which are the respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
Furthermore, the European Commission has suggested to the Member States that they should apply the procedure set out in Article 366 of the Lomé Convention, which allows them to suspend cooperation with the Comoros.
In addition, the Commission is examining with the Member States the possibility of a diplomatic initiative aimed at applying the agreement signed in Madagascar on 29 April 1999 under the auspices of the OAU.
Thank you, Mr Marín.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
My group is not only anxious to voice our concerns about public safety in the European Union and in the Czech Republic and neighbouring countries; it also wishes to see aid being offered to promote change, to promote another form of energy production, another source of energy, a different type of energy efficiency to that which can be achieved with a nuclear power station, with the accompanying wastage of electrical energy.
I think that the European Union should help the Czech Republic to equip itself with an alternative system for producing energy, that uses soft energy, but should not release funds for a Soviet-designed type VVER 1000 power station which, in my opinion, presents a great many risks.
Mr President, the most significant Austrian contribution to the common future of Europe in recent decades was the referendum in which the population rejected nuclear energy.
Mr President, the safety of existing nuclear plants and those under construction, as accession approaches, is a primordial objective, as has been underlined on many occasions by Parliament, by the Commission with regard to the Agenda 2000 package, and by the Council in the context of nuclear safety in connection with the future enlargement of the European Union.
Considering that the Adam report on nuclear safety, which was approved by this House last March, called among other things for restrictions on the use of RBMK reactors and also VVER Soviet-built models, which the Czech authorities are now planning to use in Temelin, let us reaffirm the conclusions submitted by Alleanza Nazionale's head of delegation and the draftsman of the opinion on the Adam report: first, safety is the key element of the pre-accession strategy; secondly, international legislation on safety systems must be strengthened; and thirdly, the application of such legislation should be supervised by an independent body.
Mr President, we welcome this joint motion for a resolution, and we shall support it too, even though the broad support for this motion does remind us, as one of the previous speakers said, that we are in the midst of an election campaign.
I thank you, Mr President, and I thank the gentleman who felt he had to shout out his statement on this important subject in order to book his place in tomorrow's newspaper.
However, two elements must be taken into account.
The authorities in the country where the nuclear power plants are situated are responsible for their nuclear safety.
In the Czech Republic, aid has been granted under the framework of the PHARE programme to the authorities responsible for nuclear safety and to improve the safety of the Duckovani nuclear power plant.
As regards the specific case of Temelin, the Commission does not have sufficient information on the current state of progress.
At the moment, there is no formal agreement with the Czech authorities under the PHARE framework to allow the European Union's technical safety bodies to carry out an overall safety assessment.
The Commission has taken careful note of the opinion on Temelin set out in the report published by the WENRA regulators.
This report does not provide sufficient information to allow us to reach a definitive conclusion on the level of safety that has been reached.
The vote will be taken in a moment.
The Commission and Parliament must close the loopholes in basic European social legislation which allow people to be employed in atypical jobs without proper social cover and must hasten to address the democratic deficit in this area by concluding an interinstitutional agreement pending the next amendment of the Treaty.
Applause Mr President, Mrs Gebhardt, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, more specifically, our colleague Mrs Gebhardt, for the excellent work that they have all done and the determination they showed during the conciliation procedure.
In this area it must be recognised that, although progress has been made over the last thirty years in moving from sectorial directives to more general horizontal directives - in particular the key directives of 1989 and 1992 - there was, and there still is, a great deal of work to be done.
To conclude, I would like to say that these are serious problems, because they are damaging to the very idea of citizenship.
This is why, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again, and to take note of the progress that has been made, but to say that in this area too, our battle is far from over.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of what I should like to say, let me also express my thanks to the rapporteur and my respect and appreciation for her work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 am.
In June 1997, the Commission presented us with two proposals to simplify the 1991 regulation, with the aim of reducing the obligations for firms, and particularly SMEs, in terms of tax returns, and to reduce costs for those liable to pay tax.
Even during the first reading, it was clear that in the Council the Member States were not even prepared to support these proposals, even though they had been toned down in relation to the results of the first study carried out within the framework of the SLIM initiative.
However, the Council then forwarded to us a common position that further weakened the original Commission proposal, which had already been weakened in relation to the results of the SLIM studies, and which we wished to strengthen by means of our amendments.
Moreover, that common position would have resulted in an increase in the tax return burden for firms.
The Council even went so far as to simply refuse to adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation concerning nomenclature.
We achieved this result because, in the Conciliation Committee, I was able to confront the Council delegation with the decisions of the Ecofin Council of 18 January 1999, which state, ironically, that the current Intrastat system holds more details than is necessary, that it should be simplified, that costs should be limited and that the 1991 regulations should be modified.
I thought I must be dreaming when I read that, as the Council had presented us in July last year with a 'decaffeinated' common position on the proposal to modify the 1991 regulation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the delegation to the Conciliation Committee for a very successfully drafted report.
The directive which went to conciliation is important for small companies, and, hence, the issue of employment.
The compromise that was reached in conciliation will ease the burden for SMEs, which hopefully will then mean that those companies can put this part of their expenditure and endeavour to better use, thus boosting employment.
In the European Union and Member States the role of labour-intensive SMEs in particular has been considered central to improved levels of employment.
The euro is an important factor for small companies, as it removes the need to exchange foreign currencies in the single market area.
In the framework of the SLIM initiative, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation on 30 May 1997 with the aim of simplifying the basic legislation on the Intrastat system.
As regards the first proposal on reducing the number of variables covered, the conciliation procedure allowed us to reach a satisfactory result on the Commission's initial proposal.
The joint text agreed in this way represents an important step in the work to relieve the burden on businesses, and particularly SMEs.
Its importance is highlighted in the joint text through a specific recital to this end.
Moreover, the Commission would like to point out that the Council is willing to examine the proposal for a regulation on this matter.
However, this is only the first step.
The Commission is committed to continuing with the SLIM/Intrastat initiative and the EDICOM actions for businesses, in accordance with the Council's position on the need for information in the framework of economic and monetary union.
Mr President, this morning I protested about the fact that this report is being debated this evening and that we will vote on the third reading tomorrow, which is Friday.
I know that Friday should be a complete working day for all Members, but unfortunately absenteeism among Members is legendary on Friday mornings.
If we vote by qualified majority at second reading, there is all the more reason to do so at third reading.
In this respect there is also a great deal of work to be done on our Rules of Procedure, and I do not think that we are doing ourselves any favours by setting this precedent tomorrow.
Mr President, I hope that next time a very controversial conciliation report is being discussed, we will also vote on Friday morning, with 20 votes to 18, or something of the kind!
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
As we know and are extremely happy to see, many businesses are taking advantage of the single market to operate in other countries and now have sizeable assets in various Member States of the Union.
My report contains a number of proposals which improve on the agreement that failed in 1995, and we would ask you to consider them.
I agree with the rapporteur that this is an important report and I agree with his suggestions.
My Socialist Group will be supporting the report and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work.
Now, in my last speech at the last sitting I shall attend as a Member of this Parliament, bankruptcy is on the agenda again and it has still not been regulated.
The effects of insolvency proceedings opened in one Member State upon goods and people situated in another Member State depend on national legislation and on bilateral agreements between the Member States.
These proposals are based on the principle of the authorities' powers in the country of origin where these companies are authorised to operate.
The 1995 Convention on Insolvency Proceedings had still not been signed by all the Member States before the Amsterdam Treaty entered into force and, as a result, it cannot be implemented.
Retaining its use of the right of initiative, the Commission is assessing how the text agreed by the Member States in 1995 and could be brought into effect within the framework of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr Wijsenbeek, I have been very tolerant but I cannot allow the dialogue to continue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
You were mayor of that important European city for 16 years and alongside that a Member of the European Parliament for 20 years.
However, this has not affected our friendship or the work we have done together for Europe.
A resolution was used in 1995 to agree what interception meant in the technical sense, such as whether only the content of a telephone conversation should be recorded, or the time and the recipient's telephone number as well.
There are two reasons for having these telephone and fax agreements between the Member States.
A firm called Privacy Solutions is openly advertising itself on the Internet with the following words: 'Your office is in cyberspace, the tax authorities will never find you!' ' People have a civil right to protect their privacy, but there is no civil right to crime, money laundering or tax evasion!
We are engaged in the eternal process of finding the right balance between safeguarding that integrity and combating crime.
This whole area is rightly regulated in an extremely strict way in almost all countries.
The EU FBI telecommunications surveillance system is developing rapidly through two separate but very linked initiatives.
First, the Council has proposed a new draft Council resolution to extend the 1995 requirements resolution to cover new technologies, the Internet and satellite-based telecommunications.
And, second, the Council is on the verge of agreeing a formula to provide a legal base for remote access to a satellite ground station in Italy through a new clause in the draft convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.
This draft convention will provide the legal framework for the interception of all forms of telecommunications in the EU which is required to put into effect the EU FBI surveillance system.
Both measures are expected to be agreed at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 27 to 28 May.
What we are discussing here today, in the version discussed in the European Parliament, amends the 1995 requirements to include data on Internet users such as IP address, electronic address assigned to a party, account number and e-mail address (ENFOPOL 10951/98 REV2).
It is very disturbing that an issue like this is being discussed on a Thursday evening when there are very few people here, the vote will be tomorrow morning, and there has been no proper debate within national parliaments on this issue.
It is unfortunate that the draftsperson of the opinion is not here because it is extremely important that this point is stressed.
There needs to be a lot more debate about this, not just here in the European Parliament but in national parliaments.
I would like to know why these issues have been railroaded through in such a fashion without proper democratic control and proper public debate.
The legal conditions for telephone tapping and for monitoring Internet access will still, even after this resolution, lie solely in the hands of the national legislator.
The Commission shares Parliament's opinion of the importance of this issue, particularly since in Europe the telecommunications world is constantly undergoing rapid and revolutionary changes.
The development of Internet telecommunications must not affect the Member States' ability to fight crime and maintain national security.
On the other hand, we are seeing a significant increase in telecommunications services and, in particular, Internet services.
Information technology companies already account for more than 5 % of the European Union's gross domestic product.
They provide employment for more than four million people and they create more new jobs than any other sector of the European Union's economy.
The European Commission therefore believes that it is vital to maintain an appropriate balance between the interests at stake.
The Commission should like to begin a broad debate on the necessary requirements and on the way in which these can be met in as beneficial a way as possible.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
