To clarify the Minutes, Mr President, my group would like you to invite Mr Sorgdrager, as President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of Justice, to make a statement to Parliament concerning the 368 cancelled provisions.
Mr Macartney and I, at the sitting of 29 May, raised the question of whether the Commission would be prepared to make a statement about the agreement which it was negotiating and which this House had not seen.
I want to know whether Sir Leon Brittan, who has been the invisible man in this case as far as Parliament is concerned, if his services or if the Commission have come back to the President and said when they are prepared to make a statement on this Norwegian salmon issue.
It says that the President announced that four of our colleagues had been appointed as members of the French Government and that pursuant to Article 12 of the Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by universal suffrage, Parliament established these vacancies.
My question concerned the then forthcoming Council meeting on 26 May.
I would ask that your office help us to urgently respond and to show how this institution can be a defender and fighter for our citizens' rights where wrongs have taken place, particularly in an area which is part of the single market and European citizenship.
Mr President, I rise to confirm what has just been said by Mr Teverson.
At the European Parliament's own request in its resolution of 10 April last, on humanitarian aid for Bulgaria, the Commission - along with the Council - was urged to take the measures needed to help the Bulgarian Governments in its fight against the current serious economic crisis.
So we do find ourselves in a very embarrassing situation and we would really like a remedy to be found.
Our report is in two parts.
The first part describes economic developments, which I shall sum up in a few words.
The news in this area is good.
We have not seen a favourable evolution in the area of unemployment and I think that that is still the main challenge facing governments.
The second source of concern, and there I want to be a little more specific, concerns the evolution of public deficits.
I think that we have detected a certain convergence downwards.
When I think that two or three years ago, the public deficits averaged 6.2 %, and went down to 4.4 % last year, and that this year we are heading for figures of around 3 % - between 3 and 4 % and I hope nearer to 3 than 4 % - then we can see that there is a process taking place there.
That is a genuine concern and in my view we have not got rid of it.
The second part of our report concerns the Institute's work and here I can be a little calmer.
You know the work programme that we undertook over three years ago.
I mean that of preparing a Central Bank to be capable of beginning the single monetary policy in early 1999.
I should simply like to tell you that all of the main decisions of principle have been taken in each of these fields.
I should not underestimate the difficulties faced by my successor and my colleagues in the future.
There will be difficulties but they will be difficulties of implementation.
I should like to add a couple of words to what I have already described in a text that you can read at your leisure, on the reasons why I am fundamentally confident in the implementation of monetary union.
But the others have practically achieved monetary stability.
This achievement is here with us.
In this particular area, there is no divide between the well-behaving countries and the badly-behaving ones.
As far as the budgetary field is concerned, there too, as I have just described, there is a genuine convergence process, but here it is shades of grey.
But nonetheless a genuine convergence process is under way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a thank you to those who helped me complete this report.
The analysis looks at the economic, monetary and financial situation in the European Union, including the degree of economic and institutional convergence in the individual Member States, the preparatory work for stage three and the other activities of the EMI, especially as regards cooperation between the central banks, and, finally, the annual accounts in accordance with article 11 of its statutes.
But how can monetary union be achieved unless there is political union first?
So an effort must be made in Amsterdam to develop the political bases of the European Union, the necessary economic, fiscal, financial and above all social convergence must be achieved, qualitative convergence parameters and not quantitative ones, including equilibrium of balances of payments and convergence of interest rates.
One thing is certain: Europe today is experiencing a moment of weariness.
it is true that structural reforms are needed to achieve a single currency, but they must preserve solidarity with the weakest citizen.
Let us make our cities more beautiful, let us make rural areas better places to live, let us make room for the cohesion process, so necessary to unite the citizens in a great movement capable of integrating traditions, languages, affections and - why not? - spreading our cultures to the rest of the world.
Europe must make a great effort to use this means of exchange only to guarantee the welfare of the people and not be overwhelmed by it.
The EMI should make way for the Central Bank.
My best wishes to President Lamfalussy and I wish the new president every success even though, unfortunately, the road he must travel is still very uncertain.
The position of France has shed light on a number of things and is a warning to us to proceed with particular caution.
The fact is that every economic and monetary policy measure must be geared to citizens.
Not only has there to be a guarantee that it will operate seamlessly and smoothly, the internal barriers to the single currency that actually exist in all the Member States will have to be removed.
I wish, in passing, to make a very personal comment on the convergence criteria: the very fact that yet another stability pact has been devised demonstrates a failure to appreciate how integration is achieved in the process of European development.
I also believe that it is crucial to coordinate the exchange rate target, for which the ministers of finance are responsible, as far as possible through permanent consultation arrangements - possibly in the future Economic and Financial Committee or in some other way - with the European Central Bank.
What is actually needed is to create a stable currency that meets our needs in the global currency context.
It is from this viewpoint that this report poses a number of questions and proposes a number of answers to ensure that monetary union will work in favour of growth and employment.
Secondly, in this unknown situation, this first in economic and political history, that of a centralized monetary policy with decentralized budgetary policies, how can we ensure that those policies jigsaw harmoniously and efficiently to ensure growth and employment for the whole of the European Union?
Thirdly, how can we conduct budgetary and taxation policies and, more generally, economic policy, in such a way as to obtain an optimal functioning of the single market?
Fourthly, how can we best respect the subsidiarity principle while ensuring the coherence of all budgetary and taxation policies and economic policy in general?
Fifthly, should we leave budgetary and taxation policies under the full responsibility of the Member States in the framework of the growth and stability pact - which of course there is no question of calling into question - or should we coordinate those budgetary and taxation policies, even increase the Community budget, if we want to guarantee a harmonious economic and social development?
Those, ladies and gentlemen, are some of the fundamental questions that I try to answer in my report.
They are ambitious, difficult questions, but they are crucial for the future of the Economic and Monetary Union and I think that everyone here will acknowledge that.
The second avenue, in terms of budgetary and taxation policy - again in terms of economic policy in general, in order to head in the direction just indicated - consists in proposing the means for implementing this coordination, via an adaptation of economic decision-taking in a political body to be determined, subjected to a solid democratic control.
I should like to emphasize the fact that it is not a question by any means of calling into question the independence of the European Central Bank, nor of calling into question the main aim, that of price stability.
It is, on the contrary, a case of ensuring that there is a good policy-mix, as we say, between the two main instruments of economic policy, monetary policy and budgetary-taxation policy.
Finally the fourth main avenue is that of strengthening the ability to analyse the economic situation in the European Parliament, in order for it to participate more satisfactorily in the definition of European economic policy and in order to make our budgetary and taxation choices more credible.
We therefore propose creating a committee of economic advisers at the European Parliament to include recognized experts and to report, let us say twice a year, to the European Parliament on the economic situation and on recommendations that it thinks ought to be implemented in terms of economic policy and, more specifically, budgetary and taxation policy.
Mr President, harmonization of taxation - just like monetary union - is part of the whole question of how we get the internal market to work to promote the investment and growth that stimulate employment.
The reason I am concentrating on VAT alone in the context of our review of taxation strategy is because this is a tax that has to be paid at the creditor's place of business with regard to economic operators in the European Union, within the European single market, with - currently - 130 permitted derogations, 66 options and special rules and 25 differing rules on the place of taxation.
That is the reality of the transitional rules on VAT that have been in force since 1.1.1993.
It is high time not only that we improve these transitional rules but that we establish definitive rules based on the country-of-origin principle.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are therefore unable to derive any benefit from the internal market in this area.
What we need then is a reduction in administration, no reduction in the level of the Member States' tax revenue, a reduced risk of tax evasion and to ensure that there is no distortion of competition due to VAT.
We have to achieve that by improving the existing system but also by moving towards the definitive system.
The subsidiarity principle has, in any event, to continue to be observed.
A sensible macroeconomic clearing system is therefore crucial, as it offers the only way of securing the current tax revenue of the individual Member States.
In particular I should like to refer to the way in which we deal in future with the question of EMU.
This shows that there has been a switch in Europe in favour of a more balanced policy.
The most significant thing you could do today, Mr Lamfalussy, in your closing remarks to us as President of the EMI, is to send a very strong signal to the finance ministers and the heads of government in Amsterdam for them to recognize the pressure from the citizens for us to have an EMU, but an EMU in which there is public confidence and that will create jobs.
Mr Lamfalussy, many of us regret the fact that this is your last appearance here among us.
While all the economic indicators slowly but surely evolved towards the convergence required for starting European monetary union, in keeping with the agreed timetable and in accordance with the conditions of the Maastricht Treaty - as you rightly recalled earlier - two purely political events have intervened unexpectedly in a process broadly taken on board and anticipated by financial markets throughout the world.
These two events have occurred in France and Germany, the two countries at the forefront of Europe, and they risk seriously upsetting the already bumpy ride towards the single currency.
The first was Jacques Chirac's gamble, in an attempt to give himself the political means to take unpopular measures to put France in a position to respect the Maastricht criteria - and we know what happened there.
The other scorched fingers belong to Theo Waigel who, anxious to convince his fellow Germans that the euro would be as robust as the D-mark, repeated with sometimes embarrassing insistence the absolute necessity to stick to 3 %, 3 % and nothing but 3 %, not 3.2 % or 3.3 %.
In the coming months and years the Member States and the European Union must make definitive choices, choices which prioritize both economic and social needs, and it is very difficult to combine the two.
The four reports now before us are responses to this grave dilemma, helping us find a final approach, although a priori this must obviously include work and commitment from all the individual Member States.
We are facing a new element of uncertainty created after the position expressed yesterday by France at the ECOFIN meeting and one week away from the Amsterdam summit, which should lead us to a new Treaty.
I think that an important conclusion of this debate would be for the European Parliament to consolidate, strengthen and very clearly insist on the need for EMU to come about and the euro to be introduced in the planned conditions and timescales.
I think that any element of uncertainty could lead to greater difficulties, in an economic situation in which gradual recovery is taking placer, as is shown by the development of the European economy in the last quarter and the Commission's own forecasts, which we debated here for this year and next, and that should offer an appropriate economic framework for fulfilling this project.
This project, as you know, also has a very important political dimension for the achievement of European Union.
I should like to insist that this moment in time is not the most appropriate for asking institutions such as the European Monetary Institute or the future European Central Bank to implement policies that do not fit them.
The Institute and, later, the Bank, must guarantee conditions of stability and solvency, with low levels of inflation and interest rates, offering a credible framework that is both secure and solvent internationally.
Then, if the governments and administrations implement economic policies in a framework of competence, we shall be able to solve the most serious problem facing European society: unemployment.
But how can we then accept the fact that point 19 of the report calls for the introduction of the principle of majority decision-making on tax issues as a means of overcoming situations which the Member States might find fair in the long term, but which would not suit them in the short term.
The move towards a definitive VAT system based on the principle of origin will be a long process so I would suggest that we should not forget that we can improve matters in the short term.
Mr President, the four reports that we are debating now have struck me with their lack of sincerity about the essential matters.
The rapporteurs have made an effort to try and paint an objective picture of economic convergence in the European Union, the major differences existing in the Member States' fiscal and budgetary structures or the possible strategic axes of the future European Central Bank.
The real reasons underpinning the forced march towards EMU are never targeted.
In truth, the single currencies creates more problems than it solves and everyone knows that full well.
It calls for a considerable increase in the European budget in order to deal with asymmetrical economic shocks; Mr Fourçans recalled that earlier.
In a nutshell, the single currency can only lead to the total transfer of economic, budgetary and fiscal sovereignty towards Brussels, or else the situation will be totally out of control.
By means of the budgetary policies that it imposes the single currency is already an economic disaster, yet another source of unemployment in Europe.
Neither France nor Germany will respect them in 1997 or 1998, but neither France nor Germany wants to take responsibility for burying this economic aberration that is EMU.
Now, prosperity and interest call for the once and for all abandonment of the single currency.
We are all aware - and I should very much welcome it, Mr Lamfalussy, if you could say something further about this - that tax criteria are merely a supporting factor in achieving monetary stability and that the future European Central Bank should not be forced to apply a rigid monetary policy because of unsound budgetary policies; that is something we could do without in the Monetary Union if we are achieve growth that is based on investment and creates employment.
For that reason, the European Parliament has constantly called, since 1993 and by way of preparation for Monetary Union, for investment programmes in infrastructure to modernize and at the same time provide an incentive for private investment in Europe.
In conclusion, therefore, an indication of the form future cooperation between the European Parliament and European Central Bank should take would be especially important for us.
The EMI is drawing up various strategies for monetary policy.
We are prime advocates of the internal market which will strengthen our joint competitive strength and in so doing increase growth and produce new jobs in Europe.
In this respect the report by Mrs Randzio-Plath on a common VAT system sets a very good example.
The internal market and the single currency are both institutions needed by the EU to promote competitiveness.
Other, different systems which have developed in our individual countries add a diversity which is enriching and which will not benefit from being standardised.
Our common institutions are the external framework which set the long term conditions.
The easiest way to find the best model is through healthy competition between different national systems and solutions.
As far as VAT is concerned, the switch to a final VAT system, due on 1 January 1997, has been put back sine die.
Mr President, I should like to begin with the disturbing problem of the lack of consensus which has re-emerged on the question of fiscal policy at the heart of the EMU debate.
On the VAT question, I agree in substance with what the rapporteur has said.
The Liberal Group wants two things from the Commission: that it should, in the short- to medium-term, try to improve the problems and shortcomings of the current system; also, it should continue to deepen its work on moving the system to a new regime using the point of origin.
We cannot ask Member States to take a leap in the dark.
Subject to that, the Liberal Group supports the timetable set out by the Commission.
Mr President, in my opinion this debate should have been more intensive and should have taken place a long time ago.
One idea which has come up in my own party in Finland is that the European Central Bank should have a 'confidence body' made up of Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these four reports are an opportunity for us to express our support for all those who want Europe not only to be a market and a currency, but it is also an invitation for them to clarify what they really mean by a 'European economic government' , which in our view must be clearly distinguished from the currency question.
The whole of this century's economic history shows the contrary.
While it is a necessary aim for completing European Union, it is a political aim and we know full well that it is because it cannot be built without budgetary stability that that stability is necessary.
That would, for example, require the adoption of qualified majority voting, at least for part of the fiscal sector.
What is at stake is the IGC, not the stability pact.
Then there is the question of coordinating the national budgets or even significantly increasing the European Union budget.
As far as fiscal matters are concerned, the rapporteur points very clearly to the unfair tax competition that could arise in a variety of areas between Member States or regions.
At present, as far as many Member States are concerned, the principle of unanimity on this issue is something of a sacred cow.
VAT is naturally important for the national income of each Member State.
VAT based on the country-of-origin principle has formed part of the single market project since the very beginning, and its purpose is still to make intra-Community trade as easy as trade within one Member State.
We should also not forget that the introduction of the euro will make the market more transparent, and that differences in rates and in how the rules on VAT are interpreted and applied are more likely than ever to distort competition.
I therefore hope, perhaps against hope, that the Amsterdam summit will bring some progress in this area.
Mr President, this important debate is taking place at a time of dramatic change in the political landscape of Europe, when the situation seems too unbalanced to guarantee a stable euro.
Although these reports are of a technical nature, we do of course all know that this is a political issue, much more so than many other aspects of the Intergovernmental Conference, because it is the euro which can create unity in Europe.
It is nonetheless important because, inevitably, the discussion on monetary union must be succeeded by an in-depth discussion on fiscal union, which must follow.
I would like to raise the problem of our relative lack of understanding of, and failure to study, some of the principles of indirect taxation.
Certainly, in my own country, the government is extending exemptions from VAT to services which were once in the public sector and are now in the private sector.
The Commission has indeed put some of these questions to the Court of Justice for resolution.
I propose, and my Group proposes through amendments to the Fourçans and Randzio-Plath reports, the establishment of an independent organization which would bring together academics, industry practitioners, Commission officials and national government officials in a wider and informal context to discuss different VAT practices and to build a consensus on this.
The final system was due to be adopted by the Commission by 31 December 1994.
The first is that this transitional system is inappropriate and must be replaced and the second is the difficulty in setting up the final system.
We are in agreement with this rule in principle as it would simplify administrative steps for companies.
Where we disagree is when you recommend the pure and simple abolition of national exonerations and their replacement by zero rating.
The proof is that since its appearance in France this unique tax has been copied worldwide.
We want to preserve our fiscal autonomy, which is not necessarily incompatible with a new VAT system in the European Communities.
In this context the Fourçans report, as amended by our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, is a useful one.
But we must go further and be more ambitious.
The budgetary aspect of the report calls for several remarks, in my opinion.
But we should also introduce qualified majority voting for certain direct taxes, or else we shall be unable to fight fiscal dumping or strike a taxation balance between capital and labour, taxing capital speculation.
The Fourçans report heads in the right direction but seems a little timid when it comes to aims.
Recent changes of government in certain Member States should help us, without delay, to promote at European level alternatives to the solutions and mechanisms proposed in recent years.
To conclude, Mr President, we must avoid setting up a mechanism that would turn employment into the main variable of adjustment, thereby turning our back on our political priority: job creation.
To achieve that, we must do all we can to ensure that the switch to the single currency takes place on the planned date but with an economic union that is also committed to, serving growth and employment.
For that we must, in the beginning, as of today, complete the stability pact, which only has growth in its name and nothing else, so that thanks to a genuine coordination of economic policies, we can turn it into a genuine growth and employment pact.
The vital thing is not whether or not the stability pact is adopted in Amsterdam.
It is that the single currency will help to create jobs as of 1 January 1999.
The policy advocated by the future ECB - price stability and low inflation - means low interest rates, which should stimulate investment and, in turn, growth and employment.
We need to avoid fierce competition between the Member States here.
As far as I am concerned, the definitive system is only acceptable if it places the administrative burden where it belongs, with the government, and if a solution is found to the enormous risks presented by the clearing system.
Mr President, I want to speak mainly on issues linked to the Randzio-Plath and Fourçans reports, and then on fiscal issues.
These amendments are intended primarily to emphasize our clear agreement on the final choice of the principle of country of origin.
In this connection I am delighted that the Fourçans report, at points 11 and 12, incorporates the concept of a code of conduct in fiscal matters.
I would like to record this fact not only as a point shared with the Fourçans report, but also as a question on which Parliament has already made its position clear very strongly.
It was even fundamental to make an in-depth analysis of the Maastricht Treaty in order to identify the mechanisms which would make it possible to define, follow up and control the policies to be pursued by the Council, the Commission and finally by the European and national Parliaments in this matter.
At Community level we must in the long term envisage budgetary growth in relation to GNP in order to move ahead of the 1.27 % envisaged for 1999 to higher figures which will make it possible to overcome situations in which we have asymmetrical crises.
How should it be implemented?
A Member State may happily have a debt representing as much as 100 % of its GDP and inflation on an interest rate exceeding the criteria, without these incurring any punitive measures.
We cannot build a common currency on mass unemployment and the voters have now clearly shown that.
Here in the European Parliament we must bear our responsibility and define the new structures and priorities which will encourage employment.
The current VAT directive which had its origins in the 1970s requires reform.
Margins in this sector are usually small.
At the same time, they also conclude that of the tens of millions of new jobs that are expected to be created in tourism worldwide, less than 5 % will be created in the European Union.
And, secondly, when can we expect the results of the study which the Commission promised six years ago into the impact on employment of the possible abolition of duty- and tax-free sales in intra-European transport in 1999?
More and more studies are indicating that tens of thousands of people could lose their jobs, not least in the ferry sector.
Mr President, I very much agree with Mr Cornelissen's remarks about tourism.
For several years many of us have toiled to bring the single currency to fruition in the belief that EMU will help Europe in its search for jobs for its people.
Indeed, in his annual EMI report, the President berates the EU and its agents for failing to create the conditions for jobs to be manufactured.
Jacques Delors has recently reminded us that full implementation of all policies available in the Treaty would have created a people's Europe.
Economic criteria, like concern for levels of investment, jobs and productivity have been ignored but they were always as important as the five monetarist criteria.
We cannot be responsible for the Theo Waigels of the world who would declare 3 % to be 3.000 % and get hoist by their own petard when their deficit is forecast to overshoot by 0.2 %.
So does Gordon Brown, the new British Chancellor of the Exchequer, who would agree with us that 'Jobs R Us' is the cry for Europe.
Anyone can lose credibility in that way, and we have in the past seen crises which have shown that all citizens then lose their assets and enormous numbers of jobs are lost.
My second point concerns lean management.
My third and final point concerns bench marks.
Mr President, may I start by thanking the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have undertaken in this very important field.
Both of those electorates clearly are somewhat concerned at the budgetary measures and steps being taken by their respective governments in trying to meet the Maastricht criteria required for European monetary union.
Similarly, in Germany there are problems with the ability of the German economy to move in a way which will help the country meet the 3 % deficit requirement.
Yet I would like to point out here that when you consider the high rates of personal taxation, when you consider the social welfare system, when you consider the high rates of taxation on transport, you will find that the government is wiping out with some policies concessions that it gives to others and, in fact, competition is not at all distorted.
Proactive measures can take various forms.
We support an independent European Central Bank, but with democratic supervision by Parliament and a kind of economic government by the Council.
I should like to speak on the report on VAT.
All these problems and differences expose numerous loopholes.
That is why the Socialist Group calls for a common system of VAT which is simple, transparent and above all, easily monitored.
A VAT system based on taxation in the country of origin would seem to be the best method available to reduce the scope for fraud.
Cultural differences have led to different rates on the same items in different Member States.
First of all, uncertainty over the fulfilment of the convergence criteria in particular by the two central countries: Germany and France.
Secondly, we must affirm that Monetary Union will be accompanied by a coordination of economic policy between the Member States, with growth and job creation as the main objective.
This strategy in favour of employment not only is not in contradiction with the logic of Monetary Union but, on the contrary, is precisely in the framework of the single currency where we shall achieve the vital level of autonomy to develop a European policy to boost growth and create jobs.
I would like finally to refer to the question of the flexibility of the labour market and our economies, a flexibility that often - this morning too - is considered to be the only requisite for growth.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by joining in the tribute you have all paid to Alexandre Lamfalussy and to tell him, on the Commission's behalf, how much we have appreciated the work we have done together.
I think that if one day the history of the birth of the euro is written, our cooperation could be mentioned as a model of interinstitutional cooperation - and our work together with the European Parliament has also, it seems to me, been exemplary.
Mr Lamfalussy, I have only one regret: that you will no longer be among us when we set the list of countries that can adopt the single currency, at the end of April or beginning of May 1998.
Today, Mr Fourçans' motion gives me the opportunity to salute a very useful contribution to what I call the cruisingspeed functioning of EMU.
I recall that the treaty offers, all the same, a framework that will make it possible to develop, in a context of stability, a policy mix favourable to growth and employment.
I agree with Mr Rübig that only healthy public finances will enable us to create jobs.
The coordination of economic policies will actually make it possible to avoid conflicts between monetary policy, budgetary policy and wage developments.
On that score, I should like to emphasize the importance of the wage mass, which accounts for 50 % of GDP in Europe, including social insurance contributions.
Furthermore, you know as well as I do the provisions of Article 104, which effectively provide for a certain number of procedures concerning the financing of public deficits, especially in order to avoid the financing of excessive deficits.
Even if there is no real Community budgetary weapon, all we need is to conduct a genuine coordinated action among the Member States, and the Treaty offers us the means for that.
I refer to Articles 2, 3A, 102A and 103.
It all follows on, is precise, and thanks to that, Mrs Berès, three instruments have been created in favour of the coordination of economic policy: the main guidelines of economic policy, the excessive deficit procedure and the stability and growth pact.
However, I should like to say that the ECOFIN Council which met yesterday put the final touches to the text on the legal framework, the new European monetary system and the stability and growth pact.
It is neither more nor less than the treaty, Mr Wolf.
The stability and growth pact is intended, Mr Castagnède, quite simply to assert that public deficits have never created jobs.
I also note that, following your resolution of 30 May, many of the European Parliament's amendments were accepted yesterday by the ECOFIN Council.
I should also like to add that the same Council adopted the main guidelines for 1997 economic policy.
A lot has been said about the debate on the stability and growth pact, but no mention has been made of the debate on the main guidelines of economic policy, which is precisely an exercise of coordinating economic policies.
For too long, that coordination of economic policies has remained a dead letter in Europe.
The situation has fortunately improved in the ECOFIN Council and I think that yesterday's meeting undeniably made significant progress, I would even go as far as to say a major step in the process.
Application of Article 103 is on the increase and I would say has made it possible to lead to a genuine emulation leading to the improvement of financial management by the Member States.
Europe has now made spectacular progress towards economic convergence and it is the countries that have most reduced their deficits that have created the most jobs and seen the fastest growth.
Your rapporteur proposes a political body.
There is no reason in our view to create a new institutional body, even if I acknowledge that during the transitional period, when not all the Member States will be euro countries, the problem might arise.
My colleague Mario Monti will reply to your questions about the fiscal area.
I can tell you that I share your concerns about social and fiscal dumping.
That is why initiatives have bene taken in the framework of the main guidelines of economic policies.
The necessary legal framework exists, and has been implemented.
The political will expressed yesterday by the Ministers of Finance to make progress in that direction is a good omen.
Mr President, one Member in this debate found bracketing fiscal issues and monetary union together a little forced.
On the contrary, I have to say I found that bracketing very interesting.
The Commission still considers it desirable to move from unanimity to qualified majority, at least for certain fiscal matters.
The political stakes are very high: without coordination of fiscal policies, respecting subsidiarity, there can be no social market economy at European level, and no well-functioning market economy.
There can be no social market economy because fiscal competition between the States is increasingly preventing each of them from redistributing income through the fiscal system.
Nor can there be a well-functioning market economy in Europe without fiscal coordination, given the obstacles facing firms, and indeed workers, in a single market without a minimum degree of fiscal harmonization.
I agree with Mr Fourçans when he stresses that fiscal competition is not a negative phenomenon in itself, but it becomes one when it involves asymmetry and unfairness, as it does in many cases.
The new VAT system, dealt with in the Randzio-Plath report, is, in the Commission's view, an issue of the greatest importance.
As you know, after the result of the vote on the Randzio-Plath report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on 22 April, nine amendments were presented and if you adopt them they will introduce changes the Commission thinks right.
I very much appreciate the constructive attitude of all the political groups in deciding to reconsider certain extreme positions.
I feel certain there is no divergence of views between us on an essential point: before moving to the system of taxation at origin, the current system must be modernized, applied more uniformly and, where possible, simplified.
I conclude, Mr President, by observing that, in its report of a few months ago on convergence and in its annual report, the European Monetary Institute emphasizes the need for progress in fiscal harmonization, in particular as regards the return on capital.
Mr President Lamfalussy, please accept the warmest wishes of the European Parliament.
The first aim that monetary policy has achieved is controlling inflation.
That is, in other words, a social aim that ought to be clearly put on the table.
Once inflation has been brought under control, monetary policy can contribute to economic growth.
I only need remind you of the figures: in countries where inflation has now been under control for several years, short term interest rates are now around 3 %; in countries where the control of inflation is more recent short term interest rates are still a little higher, but are on the way down.
In six months to two years that will undoubtedly have an effect on growth.
On the other hand, monetary policy cannot bring down long term interest rates.
The reasons for this situation lie elsewhere, I think.
I think that the fundamental explanation lies in two figures: between 1991 and 1996 public debt went up from 56 % to 73.5 % of GDP.
There is no doubt that this huge increase has an effect on real long term interest rates and puts a brake on growth.
In that unemployment is due to anaemic growth, monetary policy can help within the limits that I have just indicated.
I rarely refer to particular countries, but allow me to mention my own: Belgium.
Yet the two countries' unemployment figures are quite different: 9.5 % in Belgium and 6 % in the Netherlands.
I think that the coordination of policies, as precisely and correctly described by Commissioner de Silguy, can be pursued at European level - but do not raise expectations that monetary policy cannot meet! (Loud applause) The debate is closed.
Mr Friedrich, I hope that the problem occurred only with the German vote, because when I announce a vote I always make sure that I say exactly which vote it is.
I would vote against this report if we cannot reach agreement on it.
Mr von Wagau, first of all let me say that after all of the discussions there is one corrigendum published to the Fourçans report, namely where the word 'new' occurs.
Secondly, the rapporteur has been at pains to frame all of the points on which discussion led to a conclusion and in each case I pointed out where the addition or other change occurred, for the vote, either roll call or electronic.
So I do not think there has been a problem at all, and I think that you know what you are voting on.
But the majority voted against it.
A vote was then taken on the original text.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, it has already been made clear that the word 'new' does not appear.
That is how the report has been approved thus far and how it will be approved finally if you vote for it. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, this new directive on TV broadcasting activities contains some positive aspects, especially since, in the field of subsidiarity, it acknowledges the fundamental responsibility of the Member States and their legal competence.
On the other hand, on the question of the protection of minors, there is a clearly defined concern to work in conjunction with parents, through their representatives in associations and educators of all kinds, and to see how they can filter programmes that might be harmful to children, in particular thanks to technical mechanisms.
On the other hand, this new directive sins by omission on some basic points.
The fact that a freedom is proclaimed in abstract, without ensuring the means, and in particular the financial and economic means, is virtually tantamount to hypocrisy.
We are all in favour of the market as a necessary economic phenomenon for dynamism, without its being an absolute.
Here we are faced with the joint draft text adopted by the Conciliation Committee on updating the Television without frontiers directive.
I wish to pay tribute to the European Parliament's work and that of its negotiators, who have managed to obtain a compromise acceptable to everyone at the Conciliation Committee.
Where the broadcasting of sporting events or other major events is concerned, what would have been the logic of granting exclusive broadcasting rights to given operators, preventing thousands of people from sharing their enjoyment?
Although these negotiations with the Council of Ministers have dragged on for some time, the result is a victory for all sports fans.
My own country is making sure that our football cup final, cricket internationals and tennis from Wimbledon are available to the general public.
I am tempted to ask if the Council could guarantee my favourite teams and players a place in these finals, but for the moment I am satisfied with the minor miracle which this compromise represents.
The televising of major events in such a way that all have equal opportunities to see the programmes is the responsibility of the Member States.
All Member States should now make use of this power in the interests of their citizens and should define, together with the sporting organizations, those important events which they want to secure for universal viewing.
The recommendation adopted in the conciliation committee for lists drawn up at national level was intended to reassure the market in advance and prevent overheating.
The proposed technical devices for filtering programmes are not, however, without problems.
There is therefore a continued need for further research in cooperation between the Commission and the Member States' authorities on the various possibilities of regulation.
Díez de Rivera Icaza report (A4-0183/97) Mr President, I am delighted that the Díez de Rivera Icaza report has been adopted, and particularly paragraphs 29-31 relating to the very serious problem of aircraft noise.
The issue of noise is a very important consideration in that respect.
There is new scientific evidence to suggest that public health is much affected by this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, initially the Commission planned to introduce a regulation against noise.
The European Union should no longer accept that 70 % of its population is subjected to unacceptable levels of noise pollution.
Annex III to my report includes two letters from Juan Ramón Jiménez against noise, which I think are a treat, expressing this same concern about noise back in 1919...
The report contains many good addenda and specific points for the Commission's important Green Paper on combating noise.
Mezzaroma report (A4-0194/97) Mr President, the 1996 report by the European Monetary Institute reveals once again the weakness of growth in Europe and the unbearable levels of unemployment, which continue to weigh down on public accounts and aggravate social imbalances.
Faced with this situation, unfortunately, most countries are trying to meet the convergence criteria, not by reforming their administrations but by increasing taxes, braking growth even further, something that could expose the growth concerned to serious political problems, as has just been seen in France.
Whereas preparation for the single currency should in the mind of its promoters, offer an opportunity for stricter public management favouring liberalisation and growth, it has turned out, given the blockages in our societies, to be a depressive mechanism attracting more and more taxes towards the public sphere.
The governments are going to content themselves tomorrow with interpreting the criteria as trends, which means putting rigour on to the back-burner.
Switching to the single currency in these conditions would only prepare for a weak euro, with little credibility, quickly turning into a source of tension between the participants and cancelling out most of the advantages expected on paper of monetary unification.
We should also ask why Europe currently seems to be sinking into paralysis.
As this report is based on the fact that economic and monetary union will come about and also supports this project, we have abstained in the final vote on the report.
This House must call on the heads of state to make a clear and unequivocal statement at the Amsterdam Summit and insist on proceeding as planned to the single currency on 1 January 1999.
Ettl report (A4-0185/97) As this report is also based on the fact that economic and monetary union will come about and it supports this project, we have abstained in the final vote on the report.
The stability and growth pact described in connection with EMU should also be examined from the point of view of promoting employment.
In the debate on the EU's economic policy, Parliament in particular should prioritize employment and the elimination of social exclusion.
For these reasons, I voted against adoption of the report.
The only adaptation variable will, of course, be the budgetary variable and taxation in particular.
I offer the example of what has happened to national rights: in Spain, for example, when the Basque Country lowered company tax rates, companies left Madrid for Bilbao.
The only way of avoiding injustice between, for example, ' relocatable' capital income and other revenues would be to plan for a European fiscal constitution adding at least a fifth criterion, providing for a ceiling on compulsory levies for all fifteen counties, a ceiling that might be set at, for example, an average of 40 % of GDP.
As this report is also based on the fact that economic and monetary union will come about and it supports this project, we have abstained in the final vote on the report.
Above all, we take particular exception to point 15 in the report proposal.
Point 16 of the report proposal also proposes that the European Parliament establish a 'committee of economic advisers' .
Point 7 would involve the use of totally subjective criteria for the control of budgetary discipline.
We think that a single currency is very important for growth and employment but there is a requirement that those countries who participate in the currency union should also contribute to a strong and stable single currency.
But we do not consider that the model proposed in point 15 will satisfy this need.
The Fourçans report on the coordination of budgetary and taxation policies in the future single currency system shows very well, albeit involuntarily, the impasse in which Europe finds itself.
But under the future system of the single currency, these national instruments will disappear or see their effectiveness reduced; internal changes will no longer be flexible but fixed by definition; interest rate policy will be unified; budgetary room for manoeuvre will be confined within tight limits by the stability pact; taxes can no longer be raised sharply, as the single market will prevail; more generally, economic policies will be coordinated and subordinated to Community aims, in accordance with Articles 102A and 103 of the Treaty.
In such a hypothesis, theory teaches us that the country facing the imbalance should be able to find help from a central European budget.
Finally, it appears that the countries of Europe, propelled by ideologues, had rushed headlong into the adventure of the single currency, without first of all checking to see whether all the conditions were met and whether they actually had the vital instruments needed to see it through.
The Fourçans report tries to evoke the possibility of setting up at European level a political body comprising representatives of all the Member States, subjected to solid democratic controls and that would play the role of coordinating national economic policies.
As may be clearly seen, if there is to be a single European economy, it needs, in addition to a single monetary policy, single budgetary and fiscal policies.
The question, as this report rightly stresses, is to know who defines the objectives and implements the instruments of fiscal policy within the area of the European Union.
According to the author of this document that could only be the economic governor of Europe, whose president is independent of the Member States with a mandate outstripping the Presidency of the Union.
Since I still have doubts about real convergence of the economies of each of the States, I cannot subscribe to the premises and proposals contained in this report.
The lack or inadequacy of infrastructures, the inability - due to various factors - to attract investment and lagging technology, as seen in the smaller, poorer economies of some States, can be overcome only by retaining fiscal sovereignty.
A single fiscal policy would at the moment and in this context have the effect of preserving the lack of competitiveness both on the internal market and on the external market.
The report is contradictory on several points.
For this reason, I have voted against the report. . (DA) The June Movement votes against the monetary dictatorship of the Maastricht Treaty and has therefore supported a number of amendments which offer scope for more economic remedies and for action on employment.
For the participants in the single currency the commencement of the third stage of economic and monetary union will mean handing over sensitive sectors of economic policy to the European Union and the European System of Central Banks.
The situation will not be all that different for the countries 'with a derogation' .
It is a disaster in terms of the rules, leading to complexity rather than the aim of simplicity, with over 130 derogations, 66 possible options, without counting the different rules for the localisation of operations.
Excuse me, Mr President, but when you know what the Court of Audit says about GDP calculation in Greece or Portugal, then you can see what disputes there would be between the countries.
Now you understand, Mr President, why the rich are so much in favour of Europe.
We also take strong exception to the two proposals in point 19 of the report proposal.
We think that the principle of unanimity should be applied in the Council of Ministers for all tax matters.
We think that the Council should, in the main, continue to handle tax matters in accordance with the principle of unanimity.
Mr President, the Randzio-Plath report on the common VAT system invented by the Commission gives hope to all those who think that the madness of certain projects can be halted after all.
The new VAT system being proposed to us is apparently founded on the taxation of goods and services in the country of origin (and not, as at present, in the country of destination), and would treat all European countries as a single domestic market where rates, packages and all other rules would have to be brought into line.
This system would take away national decision-taking autonomy (is it not its main aim?) over a resource as vital for the States as this - since VAT receipts accounts, for example, for half of all French tax revenue.
We are pleased to note that, in a quantum leap of realism, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of the European Parliament considered as 'untimely' the introduction of this new system and urged the Commission to put all its energy into improving the existing system.
It is true that this realism has been stimulated by the negative positions taken by several Member States.
For example, the resolution ends with an appeal for majority decisions at Council, rather than unanimity, in taxation matters.
The committee supports the proposal in principle but thinks that we are moving too fast.
There is never any mention of applying a zero or reduced rate on various items and services with wide public consumption as a means to strengthening the purchasing power of the working classes and of alleviating the impact of the austerity policy.
We dissent from the proposal that the country-of-destination principle should be replaced by the country-of-origin principle in regard to VAT collection.
I know that the Commissioner will want to comment on the two statements concerning number portability and the endorsement of the position taken by this Parliament on the voice telephony directive in its first reading and also on the question of to whom the directive applies.
I hope the Commissioner will be able to deal with this in his response.
I must draw the attention of this House to the fact that there is no Council representative here; that should be included in the record.
Nevertheless, on interconnections, which are a pivotal part of the creation of the single market and the liberalization programme, it is to the credit of Parliament and its staff - and I would like to thank my colleagues who did so much to support me in this work - and thanks to the cooperation of the Council and the Commission that we have a well thought out, coherent and, I hope, effective piece of legislation.
Organizations that hold a dominant market position will have to offer new market operators access and connection under transparent, reasonable and non-discriminatory conditions.
The directive will also guarantee the interconnection and interoperability of networks and services so that users throughout the Union continue to be guaranteed universal availability of telecommunications services.
The Commission's second declaration refers to the revised directive on 'ONP voice-telephony' .
In conclusion, the Commission welcomes the achievement of the Conciliation Committee which has enhanced the common position and takes into account the important amendments by the European Parliament at second reading.
The final text boosts the Community aspect of the directive and improves consumer protection.
The Commission therefore urges the European Parliament to accept the compromise text arrived at by the Conciliation Committee so that this important directive can at last be adopted.
Madam President, can I thank the Commissioner but just query one small point in his presentation?
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, on 20 January 1995, this House unanimously adopted my report on the difficult situation of European beekeepers and proposed direct support measures to safeguard apiculture in our Member States.
At that time we sharply criticized as inadequate the Commission's half-hearted 1994 discussion paper on the situation of apiculture in Europe and made specific proposals for, among other things, a pollination premium and compensatory payments for loss of income attributable to the absence of Community preference.
Those programmes are intended to be only 50 % EU-funded; ECU 15 m is earmarked for this in the EU budget, with the bulk of that - ECU 11.6 m - being destined for measures to combat bee diseases.
Commissioner Fischler, our feelings range from disappointment to anger at the lack of understanding shown for the difficult position of commercial or part-time beekeepers, and the serious consequences for agriculture and the environment if not enough bees are raised to ensure that the pollination that is so important from both an ecological and an economic point of view takes place.
The Commission neither can, nor should it, ignore the fact that trends in apiculture are disastrous in many regions.
Within the space of a year - between 1995 and 1996 - the number of bees declined by about 10 %.
The short-sightedness of those who refuse to make ECU 65 m available in the Community budget - that is about how much our proposals for direct assistance would cost - is almost criminal, bearing in mind that, through pollination, bees maintain more than 80, 000 different plant varieties, and that the loss of wild flora would also result in the disappearance of insects, birds and small mammals that depend on that flora for their food and habitat.
Since 1985, that is for 12 years now, this House had sadly been a lone voice in the wilderness of European bureaucracy, which can cope with the misappropriation of ECU 60 bn but would have us believe that the EU budget would come apart at the seams if ECU 65 m were made available to preserve beekeeping, even though the economic contribution made by bees to agriculture is probably in excess of ECU 5 bn and possibly even more.
We want the pollination premium; we want compensatory payments for loss of income but we also want apiculture included in the arrangements for compensatory payments in the regulation on improving the efficiency of agricultural structures.
We have nothing against national programmes to improve the production and marketing conditions for apicultural products, but we want them to be exclusively Community-funded.
Unfortunately, our financial masters did not back us in their opinion.
We do not want a market organization on the old model but the direct measures I mentioned earlier, and they have become all the more urgent because the opening-up of the market in honey as a result of the GATT agreement is increasing the pressure on European beekeepers still further.
We are therefore making an urgent appeal to the Commission and the Council of Ministers and asking them to accept our proposals.
In the first place, it is good news when European taxpayers are prepared to make available ECU 15 m annually for something where the money is being well spent, where much can be achieved at little cost: the fight against varroasis, for instance, continues, and one of the fundamental ills of European apiculture is thus able to be tackled.
I live in a region of industrial and farming decline, and bee-keeping complements those declining activities and greatly helps producers.
In northern climes, such as Scotland or Scandinavia, daylight hours and the amount of sunshine are very different from the south and, likewise, the warmth of the sun which means that climatic differences have to be built into the provision of sugar in some cases for the honey.
Madam President, it is now two years ago - I think it was January 1995 - that the European Parliament unanimously came out in favour of a pollination premium and the Commissioner came out in favour of a compensatory premium to offset loss of income due to the absence of Community preference.
We all know the problems and Astrid Lulling has stressed the sector's importance time and time again.
I come from a country where bees were adopted on the imperial mantel, as a sign of authority.
This refers in particular to two subjects already mentioned - given the situation of the Community honey market, given the absolute deficit in the Community and given the lack of regulation - those of pollination premiums and compensatory premiums to offset loss of income.
I also think that an effort should be made to market and promote 'honey products' (market studies, new market studies, design, specialized publications, animal nutrition, diet, etc), so as at least to take into account the reality in the different honey producing countries of the European Union.
As far as the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is concerned, this is a half-hearted Commission proposal.
The Committee declared itself in favour of the pollination premium and the compensatory payments for loss of income, but also for apiculture to be included in the compensatory payment arrangements under the regulation on improving the efficiency of agricultural structures.
The so-called mature European consumer, Commissioner Fischler, could steer the market by his purchasing policy once the uniform marketing rules for Community and imported honey have been introduced.
And so we should attach great importance to this incidental effect on the natural environment and, above all, we should attach greater political value to apiculture.
Bees provide great benefit and that benefit can be expressed in more than just financial terms.
Back in 1994, the Commission put forward priority proposals for improving honey production and marketing in its discussion paper on the situation of apiculture in Europe.
Amendment No 1, which concerns institutional issues, cannot be accepted as it stands because it does not constitute a legal basis and, consequently, cannot be cited in a reference.
Amendment No 1 could, however, be accepted as a recital, to take account of the joint declaration of 1 March 1995.
Amendment No 8 on aspects of the committee procedure must be rejected because a recital should be used to give the reason for the corresponding provision in a piece of legislation, and in this case there is no corresponding article in the regulation.
Amendments Nos 5, 11 and 12 call for greater flexibility as regards the individual State programmes and the priority measures.
The Commission could accept the reasons for those amendments and inform the Council of this.
However, they are not admissible in their current form because they go further than the priority measures proposed.
The measure is actually intended to help beekeepers to cope with the increased production costs that result from dealing with varroasis.
Amendments Nos 6, 13 and 19 propose the introduction of further measures in future on the basis of regularly conducted structural studies on the sector and on price formation.
We cannot accept those amendments because the proposed co-financing of the individual State programmes has to be linked to the condition that the studies be carried out before the programmes are approved.
Amendment No 14 provides for the introduction of complicated rules for determining the co-financing ceilings for the individual Member States.
Amendment No 15 is designed to change the proposed text, even though it provides for a simple and frequently used budgetary procedure.
I am therefore unable to accept those amendments either.
Amendment No 17, which relates to structural policy aspects, cannot be accepted because it would make it more difficult to supervise the application of structural programmes and could result in subsidies being paid twice.
I should like to make the following points concerning those amendments which seek to introduce new articles.
Amendments 2, 9 and 10 provide for the introduction of a Community pollination premium and a compensatory payment for loss of income.
Amendments Nos 3 and 7 call for marketing standards for honey.
The appropriate framework for that is provided by the existing directive on honey which is currently being considered by the House, together with a range of other foodstuff directives, as part of the proposed simplification process.
Amendment No 18 emphasizes that implementing provisions are needed not only for the supervisory measures but also in respect of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Council Regulation.
I prefer the text as it stands because implementing measures are particularly important for the supervisory measures, not least because the Council regulation does not contain any special supervisory measures.
It is, of course, possible to engage in even more detailed studies and improve the statistics, but everyone dealing with the problem knows that it is really the eleventh hour, the absolute last moment, if we are to rescue apiculture in the European Union, as all honourable Members here have proposed!
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Earlier, in my report at first reading, I stated that I agreed with the aim of the Commission's proposal: harmonization of the dates for the beginning and end of summer-time to promote better functioning of the internal market and assist important sectors like transport and telecommunications.
I am quite sure the great majority of citizens are in favour of maintaining summer-time, because it provides an additional hour of daylight for all kinds of activities, from sporting and recreational to services and tourism, especially in southern European countries, where the days are very short.
I have dwelt on the issue of energy saving, which has minor impact in some Member States, while in others, like Italy, which are not selfsufficient in energy, the application of summer-time last year produced an estimated saving on consumption of 900 million kilowatt-hours, over 0.4 per cent of national requirements.
As regards road safety, common sense clearly tells us there is a correlation between more light and greater road safety, but objective data from the Member States are needed to study this properly.
In their common position the Commission and the Council demonstrated, for all response, that their minds were firmly closed to Parliament's position as set out in its three amendments, in particular those relating to the principle of subsidiarity, basing this approach on the fact that acceptance of such amendments would not have made the application of a system of summer-time compulsory as such, and on the fact that they were considered contrary to the aim of harmonization, which is the fundamental purpose of the directive.
So in supporting a favourable opinion on the application of summer-time and harmonization of the date, I once again invite the Commission and the Council to draw up a detailed report on the consequences of the application of summer-time, by consulting representatives of interested sectors and national experts in the Member States, to bear in mind the principle of subsidiarity and the responsibility of each Member State, and to take greater account of the opinion of Parliament as the opinion of a freely elected assembly and the expression of the will of the European people.
We have heard previously many good arguments in favour of summer time from the rapporteur, but this concerns harmonisation of the dates for the beginning and end of summer time.
The majority of people in the EU, more than 80 percent, are also in favour of maintaining summer time.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the first reading of the draft eighth directive, I had the opportunity to express to the Committee on Transport and Tourism my feelings on this important subject: summer-time.
Throughout the European Union summer-time now stretches from the last Sunday in March to the end of October.
My department shares a 370 kilometre border with Belgium.
This local example shows just how any reorganization of the time system must be carried out on the basis of an agreement and coordination between all the Member States of the European Union.
Madam President, allow me, before further ado, to congratulate you on your stunning election, with such a big majority, in your constituency, which has a common border with Spain and which nearly ended up suffering a time difference with people across the border.
I subscribe to the idea of subsidiarity, provided that the time difference between two countries never exceeds one hour.
This time difference between countries is not so serious, as long as the Member States change at the same time.
The only problem is that every silver lining has a cloud, in this case the fact that this is your last day in the chair presiding over this Assembly.
I am certain my colleagues in the Commission will agree with me that the French Parliament's gain is the European Parliament's loss.
Naturally I welcome their proposed approval of the common position on summer-time arrangements in the European Union.
In his recommendation Mr Belleré comments on the implications of summer-time arrangements in the present and future Member States of the Union, in many cases reinforcing points that have already been made by the Commission and by Members of this House.
In anticipation of the future enlargement of the Union most European countries, both within and outside the Union, already operate a summer-time régime that is consistent with the Community directive.
Our proposal was sent to all the countries concerned and the absence of negative reaction seems to indicate that harmonization of the summer-time period is widely accepted.
Accordingly, the Commission will take into account the advice of national experts and representatives of the economic and social groups concerned and will be submitting a report to this Parliament and to the Council in 1999.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
At any rate, the ECU 22.7 m under the old programme were well invested between 1992 and 1996 in projects involving 16 international transport axes - incentives which allowed demand to grow.
The current proposal for the granting of Community assistance for actions to promote combined goods transport will be based on a regulation and make available ECU 53 m over six years.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism welcomes the fact that the new PACT programme focuses on direct measures.
In its discussion of the proposed legislation, the Committee on Transport and Tourism placed particular importance on four aspects of the conditions attaching to the grant of resources.
Secondly, even in the old programme, projects on three axes, which extended to non-EU States, were supported.
The new programme too will be open to projects which promote combined transport with Eastern Europe.
We should earmark an additional ECU 4 m annually for the relevant projects or at least discuss the issue again thoroughly two years from now.
We are therefore expecting the Task Force on Intermodal Transport to engage in structured dialogue within the Commission so that synergy and complementarity can be achieved between all the funds and programmes in question.
It is certainly right to make a distinction between PACT pilot projects and research projects.
That said, we do note with satisfaction that the 1992 experiment now looks as though it is developing into a proper programme.
As I have said, I support both the report and the Commission's initiative, and I hope that in the end we shall also get the Council on board.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work his has done and for this really good report.
Road traffic has already reached capacity, and, in view of eastward enlargement and the increase in traffic that will result, we face a total collapse of the system.
This transport system, which embraces a variety of carriers, can play a key role in the way transport in Europe is organized in the future.
The social and economic demands of the community as a whole must take proper account of environmental protection and the safety of users.
PACT II runs from 1997 to 2001.
Funding of ECU 35 m has been made available but, in my view, that is far too small a sum.
I hope this proposal will be approved in plenary for the benefit of Europe's citizens.
We know that we are all in favour of promoting combined transport.
This is where the problem lies, in the fact that each national railway company has its own responsibility, rather than all of them sharing it jointly.
Further developing the substance of the PACT programme is an important step in the right direction.
Firstly, the Commission is sympathetic to the idea expressed in the first part of Amendment No 4 which prioritizes projects located on the trans-European network or trans-European rail freight freeways.
A similar idea is already expressed in Article 2(2) of the Commission proposal.
Consequently, a project on a freeway which does not satisfy this criterion should not receive priority over a project of excellent quality which happens not to be on either of the two networks.
In so far as it relates to synergies with the PHARE programme, it is fully in line with the Commission's efforts to have a simple and transparent programme which makes combined transport more competitive.
I am also happy to accept the improved phrasing proposed for Article 4, in the first part of Amendment No 2.
The second part of Amendment No 2, which aims to increase the funding percentage for operations and decrease the funding percentage for feasibility studies, would risk distortions of competition in the market.
The two-way committee proposed by the Commission gives the Member States the necessary guarantee of involvement in the process.
Amendment No 8 conflicts with the financial perspectives of the Community for PACT and the Community obviously has, in PHARE and TACIS, specific instruments to assist East European countries.
PACT is primarily centred on the European Community.
We should probably return to the issue at some later stage.
We trust that the continued use of PACT will in future encourage the greater use of combined transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
The European Parliament forwarded a proposal to the intergovernmental conference and to the Commission advocating the insertion of a provision in the Treaty stating that tourism is to be considered as a sector of the economy and that it should be governed chiefly by Article 130 so that many of its various aspects, such as the Philoxenia programme and several other programmes that have preceded it, can be approached in a legislative framework.
Instead, as others have already stressed, tourism is actually a highly valuable industry which indeed produces well-being and GDP, but above all produces employment.
The nine and a half million employees - a 1992 statistic which no doubt needs updating - constitute a formidable platform of employment, especially as it provides jobs for people in areas often less fortunate.
In November came the cold shower: the 'no' from the Council, a rather icy 'no' , especially as it was backed by reasons that were barely credible and came from only three countries, whereas all the others believed in the need to intervene in this sector.
It is a sector which - and I think this is an important feature - helps the more and less favoured regions achieve something the European Parliament and all other European institutions are seeking: social cohesion.
We are convinced of the importance of tourism for employment and on the economy and want to know why and how the Commission is going to try and put pressure on the Council so that the programme can be approved next year.
We therefore think that the European Parliament should take a political stance reaffirming the need to put into practice the actions which were envisaged for this field, which is a major source of jobs and which therefore plays a most significant role in the development of some less-favoured regions, thus promoting economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
We do not therefore support the motion for a joint resolution due to be adopted at the close of this debate.
It is important - and it seems to have been forgotten in this motion for a resolution - to reach the maximum level of consensus possible to press for the implementation in practice of measures approved long ago which the European Parliament already agreed to but which are still blocked.
Then we should not have the impression that proposals were being made which were of doubtful effectiveness based on dubious reasons; what is essential and necessary is simply to make specific measures out of what is already envisaged and so essential for tourism in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares the views of the Members of this Parliament concerning the economic and social importance of tourism, particularly as regards its potential for increasing employment in Europe.
The Commission's approach on the matter is expressed in the first objective of our proposal for the multiannual programme to assist tourism in Europe, the Philoxenia programme.
As the European Parliament has stated, tourism has substantial job-generating potential, and it does, of course, provide work, in particular, for vulnerable groups in society such as women and young people.
It contributes also, in a very significant way, I believe, to the strengthening of economic and social cohesion and to development in remote and island regions.
The Philoxenia programme has ambitious objectives, but it is also extremely important with regard to the creation of a legal basis which would facilitate the development at the European level of policies which can strengthen the national policies.
The main thrust of the programme is that Community measures must improve the quality and competitiveness of European tourism.
The problem now is how to get agreement on the existing programme in the Council.
Mr President, I would like to use this opportunity to appeal to Members to take the initiative, in their own spheres, in their own countries, in their own fields of responsibility, in explaining the objective and potential of this programme to local and regional authorities and in making clear to them that the programme really does not infringe the subsidiarity principle.
We have tried, so far, to get the presidencies, that is to say each six-monthly presidency, to initiate action on the matter and to request and appoint COREPER to embark on a discussion process in connection with the programme.
Over the course of this year we have used every opportunity that has come our way to explain our position to the Member States and to all of the social and political bodies and to convey our message at the major gatherings organized by the industry itself and by regional and local authorities.
We hope that during the Luxembourg Presidency there will be some development on the matter, given that the Presidency has already requested the Commission to help set up a large conference on tourism and job creation during the Luxembourg Presidency.
This inter-service group on tourism now meets regularly, and priorities for 1997 are being discussed with representatives of the industry and of the Member States.
It was with that necessity in mind that we made cohesion and complementarity between the measures of the Philoxenia programme and the other Community programmes which have a bearing on tourism a principal objective when we drew up that programme.
As regards institutional aspects, the clear support of the European Parliament for the insertion of specific provisions on tourism in the new treaty is very important.
At the same time, the Commission stated - in the report to which I have referred - that it was aware that resort to Article 235 may be much more difficult or even impossible in an enlarged Community in which the principle of unanimity in decision-making is retained.
In that same report the Commission also emphasized the importance of tourism and pointed out that the continuation and cohesion of Community action in the sector would be facilitated by the inclusion of specific provisions in the Treaty.
However, judging by the objections that have so far been raised, I fear that this will be very difficult because only one Member State has formally lodged a specific proposal with the Commission and the others have shown no inclination to initiate discussion in connection with the proposals that have been put forward.
Irrespective of whether the Philoxenia programme is approved, Directorate-General XXIII is preparing to use that appropriation for the general benefit of tourism in Europe through the promotion of actions to assist employment and in the fields of information-gathering, access to information, the information society and, contingently, statistics.
In other words there is a clear added value in placing tourism in an EU context.
Those working in the tourism industry know only too well the frustrations of moveable exchange rates.
Two-thirds of visitors to the United Kingdom come from the EU, but these tourists will be put off by the fact that the pound sterling has appreciated by 19 % against the franc and the mark in the past twelve months.
We must have an independent and welldifferentiated common policy with a proper legal basis, in other words a chapter within the revised Treaty.
The Commissioner must push for that.
Any advice on ways in which we can help him will be gratefully received, because the Commission is obviously very important in helping to push the Member States on the revision of the Treaty and to achieve what we have to achieve.
Coming back to the main issue to which the Commissioner has referred in his remarks, common action within the Commission: we all want greater coordination and we must have it, otherwise tourism will never get anywhere.
Mr President, I am convinced, along with some of my colleagues, that in terms of tourism the Commission and the European Parliament are heading in the same direction.
This hope that is always placed in the next Presidency - does it mean that the problems lie with the country currently presiding over the European Union?
This has already been said but it is worthwhile repeating it here - in terms of employment and the economy, tourism means more for the fifteen Member States than coal and steel did for the six founding members of the European Communities.
However, Mr Papoutsis, when it comes to our pessimism over finding a legal basis for the joint motion for a resolution, I wonder whether the Commission might be ready in the current situation, without any reform of the Treaty, to elaborate a legislative proposal on the basis of the current Treaty on European Union, tackling tourism from the consumer's viewpoint.
We have all insisted on demonstrating the importance of tourism as a social, economic and cultural phenomenon.
We must try and convince - you and us - the sector itself and the majority of the Member States that tourism is a horizontal activity and that the PHILOXENIA programme does not get in the way of subsidiarity.
You, Commissioner, and I know that this is the content of PHILOXENIA, rejected by the Council to everyone's great disappointment, especially mine as rapporteur.
I am aware of the considerable effort put in by yourself and your colleagues into properly running DG XXIII, but we should like you to put in more effort and enthusiasm in order to convince the rest of the Commission and the Council of the importance of tourism and make the latter give up its reservations and give the PHILOXENIA programme and all of its content the green light.
Mr President, tourism is nothing more and nothing less than the sector capable of creating most jobs in the future in Europe - that is, the sector which could be the most helpful in solving our greatest problem.
On the other hand, tourism is a very diverse activity with a great knock-on effect which makes an important contribution to economic and social cohesion in Europe.
I hope that it proves possible, for the sake of the economy and the citizens of Europe, to include tourism in the Treaty.
Perhaps the results of such a study would encourage those hesitant Member States to understand the enormous advantage which would spring from providing tourism with a legal basis in our Treaties.
Mr President, there is no doubt that tourism is a major economic factor as well as being critical to employment policy.
In Austria, for example, 17 % of GDP is earned from tourism.
Mr President, a few days ago we in the European Parliament held a meeting with those responsible for tourism and established that tourism is set to increase by about 10 % as a result of the introduction of the euro.
It cannot be dealt with in isolation from the serious effects certain forms of tourism have had on the environment in Europe.
Account must also be taken of the fact that certain types of mass tourism, with countryside and coastline being covered in concrete, have not only had an environmental impact, but have also reduced the potential for employment in the future and have blocked other activities more compatible with the environment.
There have been forms of tourism which have expropriated the inhabitants of certain areas, and tourism multinationals have imposed their logic and their personnel, totally changing the way of life in entire territories.
Without careful evaluation of the environmental impact and the social consequences, tourism cannot be regarded as exclusively positive from the commercial point of view.
Mr President, I will try very quickly to give replies to the questions put to me by some of the honourable Members who have spoken.
We shall be working to help the industry prepare itself properly for the single currency, the euro, and to strengthen its job-creating potential via local initiatives to assist employment, training, cultural promotion, environmental protection and the use of new technologies.
Whatever the case, however, I can assure Mr Cornelissen that I am constantly in touch with the Dutch Presidency about the IGC and developments concerning a specific chapter for tourism and the possibility of achieving an agreement on the Philoxenia programme even at this late stage, in the final weeks, through the COREPER framework, without a Council meeting.
The joint debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a communication of 15 July 1996, the Commission informed the Spanish authorities that accumulating structural fund resources in support of one and the same project cannot be approved.
Commissioner, the fact is that a good many LEADER programmes in my country are being held up for a year.
Commissioner, I hope that your answer will send a clear message to many mayors and councillors who are setting much store by your words that the LEADER programme's continuity is guaranteed in all transparency and, otherwise, that the Spanish Government is asked to take immediate action.
Mr President, Mr Izquierdo Collado, let me first thank you for agreeing with me that LEADER II is in itself a sound Community initiative.
If, in future, you should encounter similar problems where, either for reasons similar to those you mentioned or for other reasons, the implementation of a LEADER programme has come to a halt, then I would simply ask you to let me know about it.
Commissioner, how is it that abusive action by a Director General of the Commission can paralyse the LEADER II programme, just because of problems raised by LEADER I?
There were problems of an accumulation of Community subsidies in the case of the LEADER I programme and a lack of controls over the programme by the Commission.
Unblock LEADER II and control LEADER I.
Mrs Redondo, let me say it again: we are talking about LEADER II and not a mixture of LEADER I and LEADER II.
One thing is absolutely clear: LEADER I has already expired and we now have the LEADER II Community initiative.
I can assure you that it is not my intention nor that of my services to create additional bureaucracy here.
Question No 33 by Mrs Mary Banotti (H-0409/97) Subject: Abolition of duty-free sales Has the Commission considered the implications of the possible loss of 140 000 jobs in the European Union on the abolition of duty-free sales?
Mr President, when the directives on the abolition of tax controls at borders were adopted, the Council decided to cease permitting duty-free sales as of 1 July 1999, although it made provision for a transitional period which has to be used for the taxation of intra-Community trade to allow the adoption of the measures necessary to cushion the social impact in the regions affected and at the same time regional difficulties - particularly in border regions.
In fact, the dutyfree sector actually increased its turnover between 1991 and 1995 by some 50 % and in so doing naturally created an unacceptable means of exerting pressure.
That increase in turnover also shows the importance of the tax advantage to the sector, accounting for 35 % of turnover on average.
It is telling that the arguments - including the argument about jobs - cited here in support of extending the transitional period, are exactly the same as those which led to the 1991 Council decision.
A huge number of jobs are involved and maintaining duty-free has particular relevance for regional development.
Mrs Banotti, I have to be quite candid with you and say that: firstly, it has long been known that this decision was coming, but instead of preparing for this new and necessary situation, the sector has done exactly the opposite and used the tax advantage to increase turnover.
As in Ireland, we will be facing many job losses in the ferry industries and in regional and local airports.The effect will be disastrous.
In the light of those studies, the Commissioner should give further thought to the number of jobs which will be lost and the effect on transport facilities both in the UK and Ireland and other countries affected.
In my region we have the highest rate of unemployment in Denmark, and we shall lose 2900 jobs.
That is for my colleague, Commissioner Monti.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
May I just say that there are many regions which will have the same problems when tax free shopping disappears and we would like to act as the mouthpiece for what will happen in these regions.
Mr Andersson, that was not a point of order.
The aim of that action is to get the French Government to meet its obligations under Articles 5 and 30 of the EC Treaty.
Following fresh attacks on 24 April last and then again recently, the Commission urged the French authorities, on 24 April - after the first incident - finally to use their powers and guarantee internal security.
In addition, Commissioner Monti wrote to the minister responsible for the internal market in France, drawing his attention, as a matter of urgency, to the fact that he had to secure the conditions necessary for the operation of the internal market.
Commissioner, as you see this is indeed a very tricky problem and a very serious one, because these violent acts - taking place frequently, as you admit - against Spanish farm produce on French roads, have a terrible effect, destroy the single market and endanger people's personal safety.
The most serious aspect of all, Commissioner, is that this aggression is achieving the desired results.
My question is: do you think that the current measures and the action taken by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg will be enough to solve this problem or will you need new measures and new powers to take determined action and avoid these uncivilized attacks?
Commissioner, I must insist on the attacks against Spanish farmers when their fruit and vegetables are being transported through southern France.
What the Commission has criticized over and over again is that the French police authorities have been anything but active in intervening on-the-spot when such attacks are taking place.
Commissioner, you know that the European Parliament has repeatedly protested, with the Presidency's blessing, in order to highlight the importance of farming and preserved food in the region of Murcia, against attacks on lorry drivers and products from Murcia in France.
I cannot therefore see how the attacks are linked to the new organization of the market in vegetables.
Question No 35 by Mr Roy Perry (H-0436/97) Subject: Regional policy/islands Is the Commission giving support to the proposal at the IGC from Greece and Spain to include a clause in the new treaty on islands?
These measures should of course not interfere with the internal market or free trade or, for that matter, the rules of competition.
The Commission had favoured the insertion of a text in the final declaration of the Conference, in which the special concerns of the island regions would be noted.
In the Commission's view this political recognition is sufficient because, with it, the Treaty makes it possible in the future to take account of the situation on the islands.
Here the three countries affected, France, Spain and Portugal, are seeking the inclusion of these areas under Article 227(2) and the addition of a protocol on how this Article should be implemented.
These are the last days of meetings between the personal representatives, then comes the summit, which means that I cannot go any further than I did in my first answer, that is to say that the Commission supported the proposals that had been put forward and that we think it would be appropriate if the final declaration contained a text which made it possible to give special consideration to the islands.
As I began by saying in answer to the first supplementary question, we are now at a stage in the Intergovernmental Conference at which it very much depends on what the Member States do and on what degree of priority they assign to particular questions.
The time allowed for the firts part of Question Time has come to an end.
Question No 37 by Mr Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0425/97) Subject: Exemption of EU employees from paying income tax Staff employed by the EU in the Member States, e.g.
For example, on the staff of the Commission's representation in Sweden there are six officials and eleven employees recruited in Sweden.
This has led to a situation in which anyone working permanently for an EU institution has the same rights in all EEC countries.
I have to say that in the majority of cases the differences are quite small.
The practice of applying age limits has its origins in the very concept of a permanent and independent European civil service, along the lines of practices pursued, still today, in the diplomatic services of most Member States and by a certain number of other administrations.
The aim is to recruit young members of staff, offering them long term career prospects, in order to ensure a certain continuity in the services and staff loyalty.
The A grade competitions for new Member States setting age limits at 50 and 55 years attracted relatively few women.
Specialized competitions for A5 and A4 grades are open to candidates with confirmed professional experience, with an age limit of 50 years, which helps to introduce a certain diversity into the Commission's policy.
The Commission is not opposed to looking into greater openness in this matter.
One possibility might be to maintain age limits for certain competitions in basic grades, such as A8 competitions, and not to apply a general rule to other competitions.
We have had some discussions on higher age limits where they have been more hesitant, but that is a discussion we must take.
I am sorry that Mr McMahon did not have the chance to listen to my reply because I explained that a large part of the Commission officials are above this age limit.
Secondly, as regards the new countries, where we have recruited most officials during the last two years, half of the recruitment has been of young people for the A6, A7 and A8 posts, but another half with staff who are older, up to the age of 60 in fact.
I am still willing to give thought to whether we can have a more open system for all those jobs where we need professional experience.
I hope you will do the same thing in the Commission.
The Commission therefore means to end this round of consultations and settle the position or present a new proposal by the end of the year.
Secondly, does the Commission envisage in its proposal any reconversion plan as i think that that would be very positive for the French, Irish and British fleets, funded through the IFOP or any other type of European fund so that these fleets could be paid for the additional net investment required and so that they could be given the necessary training to convert to more selective fishing methods.
I believe that the Commission will present a proposal by the end of the year.
The idea we are developing inside the Directorate General is a questionnaire to be distributed as widely as possible, in other words trying to have a bottom-up approach, at least in the first stage of the process, so that we can take stock of all the concerns, and indeed suggestions, which emerge from various quarters of the sector, although some subjects, obviously, may be less controversial, while other ideas may be usefully taken into consideration.
Is all that spectrum within the remit of the working party or is it really within a new common fisheries policy as a common fisheries policy?
That does not mean that in the follow-up of the process we will be able to retain or accept all the suggestions.
This is intended to prevent a number of standards, such as the Pal and Secam variants, existing side-byside in the digital age.
The common or combined use of conditional access systems means that a viewer, who initially subscribes to the services of one broadcaster, is subsequently able to use those of another supplier without having to acquire another decoder.
What we are looking at here is not only whether the directive is being infringed but also whether Articles 30 and 59 of the Treaty and directives 83/189/EEC and 95/47/EC are being infringed, the implication being that the other provisions may also be pertinent.
Commissioner, the Simulcrypt system needs pacts.
The Member State cannot allow such an abuse as it would not be fulfilling its obligations, as you said, to create non-discriminatory conditions, as we are obliged by the Directive you have mentioned.
The directive actually provides that the negotiations must be fair and non-discriminatory.
Yet the Commission will have to take a decision on Spanish legislation because it is seriously harming this company which has run the risk of innovating, of launching its product on to the market.
Mrs García Arias, I have made myself very clear here, and all we have done is to try to bring about agreement, including with the Spanish Government, by the way, because it makes no sense for us all to find ourselves before the Court of Justice again.
I have said that if agreement is not reached - and we shall know next week whether or not it has been - then we shall take a decision based on the directive I have quoted, but also based on Articles 30 and 59 of the Treaty of Rome.
My concern, Commissioner, is quite legitimate.
Whereas Simulcrypt meets the requirements and the Directive's provisions, if Spanish law prohibits it that would harm not only the company producing it but also large numbers of citizens - potential and actual consumers of that products - and if it is alright for other European countries it should also be for Spain.
What the Spanish law proposes is that an agreement be reached and it sets a timetable for that agreement; if an agreement has not been reached within that time, it proposes that a universal decoder be adopted.
But I think that this is neither the time nor the place to discuss this matter.
Mr Bangemann, we shall remain with the same question but break up this Spanish momentum and open it up to a wider European area.
I have no particular technical question to ask, as I was partly responsible for the choice of solutions made in order to avoid monopolies or oligopolies, to avoid hold-ups and to enable numerical TV to be launched in Europe, as has been done.
As far as the Commission is concerned, we shall be telling the Spanish Government next week what our legal opinion is and where, in our view, the Spanish law is incompatible with the directive and the articles I have cited.
The question that we have not fully considered is whether we should ourselves then take a temporary measure or seek an interim order from the Court of Justice, since the Spanish law provides for a deadline, namely 7 July, after which no other decoder is to be permissible.
If the Court of Justice decides that we and not the Spanish Government are right, then that government will of course have to pay compensation to the company that it has disadvantaged as a result of its decision.
First of all, Mr Hernández Mollar.
What is happening is that certain members from the Socialist Group want to destroy - yes, destroy - the general interests of European citizens and Spanish citizens in particular.
You at the Commission probably know that, in respect of digital TV services, the Governing Board of the DVB decided to postpone application of the Simulcrypt cable system as a European standard.
As a result there will probably be no European Simulcrypt standard until the end of 1997 or early 1998.
On the other hand, the common interface for digital receivers was approved in May 1996 by the DVB, after its ratification by the National Standards Organizations that year, and its formal adoption as the European standard in February 1997 by the Cenelec.
There are two possibilities: either you have a uniform decoder, through which all services, including conditional access, pay-TV etc, are able to be supplied.
That is the problem with the Spanish law.
Commissioner, this afternoon you have been very clear.
You said that if there is no agreement next week, the Commission will adopt a decision and position.
Were I now to tell you how our decision looks, then both the parties currently engaged in negotiation would probably withdraw from those negotiations.
I have great pleasure in presenting the price package proposals as amended by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We have proposed that the 15 % moisture content for cereals should be extended; in other words, it should not just last this year but continue.
It is extremely costly and the misuse of a valuable resource to have to try and bring cereals below 15 % moisture.
It is particularly relevant at the moment because we have just had a great debate for almost 18 months over BSE and the problems of animal protein.
This is therefore a great opportunity for the European Union actually to produce more of its own protein and a vegetable protein at that.
The rice sector has had a particularly difficult time in recent years.
It provides the opportunity for quick support for the rice industry without great or long-term costs.
The cost of these proposals will be somewhere in the region of ECU 60m and that includes all its accompanying measures.
This arrangement should now reflect the present changes in costs and probably should be reviewed, if possible, every three years.
In my explanatory statement, I call upon the Commission to fix the rate of set-aside, I put a date of July and I suggest the rate be 5 %.
This tax is something like ECU 10 per tonne.
That was why I suggested that the Commission and the Council fix the set-aside rate as early as possible and, if possible, by July, as stated in my report.
If we want more power for this Parliament and more respect and responsibility, we have to be responsible in our approach to the budget.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, my report deals with the postponement of the advances for oilseeds and the reduction of the per hectare compensatory payments for arable crops.
It is completely unbalanced and will inevitably result in a serious loss of trust among farmers.
I myself come from a German Land where farms - with an average of 20 cattle - are much smaller than in many other regions of the European Union.
Any reduction in compensation would be particularly damaging to the mixed farms.
If there really is overcompensation, then it must be judged objectively by reference to the prices the farmer can command in his market and in his local currency.
The Committee on Budgets also supports our proposal that the payments for oilseeds for 1997 should not be postponed because the budgetary resources are available.
I believe I am entitled to another three sentences.
To prevent any wrong turnings, it is absolutely essential that proposals for the period after 1999 should be submitted very soon, because the credibility of political decisions and confidence in a united Europe are at stake.
I ask the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to withdraw its proposal to postpone the advance payments for oilseeds and to guarantee payment in full of the per hectare compensation for the years 1998 and 1999, as envisaged in the agricultural reform.
This related production is very important because it provides the opportunity to maintain income in difficult and marginal locations, especially in areas where economic and social cohesion is very important: Objective I areas.
Specifically looking at durum wheat, I think the proposals should be rationalized to provide for a maximum area for durum wheat set by the individual countries and then distributed at territorial level.
We have added Germany and Austria to the list of traditional producers because we think there is a market need, and at the same time we have updated the quotas of durum wheat allocated to the traditional producer countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the oral question to the Commission on my initiative and supported by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, is fully justified because it is vital that the Commission take a decision on set aside in the framework of the 1997-1998 price package.
Since the CAP reforms of 1 July 1993, the cereals market has recovered its balance as a result of the production cut and, above all, the recovery of the internal market, especially for animal food.
This situation has led to a major reduction in European Union cereal stocks.
The European Union must ensure that it regularly meets demand from its traditional non-Community customers.
These stocks are currently assessed at 55 consumption days.
Experts reckon that, below 70 consumption days, world food safety comes under threat.
The Commission is proposing a 'roll over' for high levels of prices and aid.
Of course, there are always Member States which would prefer a more rigorous prices package together with more daring reform proposals and, of course, all the Member States have expressed their wishes and made specific requests to the Commission.
When speaking this year of a prices package we cannot, of course, overlook the budgetary situation because, as you know, agricultural spending for 1998 is provisionally set at an amount 0.5 % higher than the 1997 budget.
In the Commission proposals we start out with a 7 % reduction in agricultural premia.
Furthermore, we still have the possibility of paying advances for oil seeds the following year but, in all probability, we shall have absolutely no need for that instrument in budgetary year 1997 given the evolution of expenditure.
Of course, it is very difficult to predict the decision-making process in the Council but, at present, you now know the personal position of its President-in-Office.
I think that this is an absolute condition because, otherwise, it would be impossible to find the 1.4 billion ECU which a good many Member States would like to cut from the Commission proposals.
I should also like to tell you that it is my intention to submit another issue to the Council in June, the so-called 'sanctions file' .
I hope that we are going to succeed.
If my memory serves me right, in September of last year, your Parliament issued an opinion on this proposal.
I hope that it is now time to be able to take a decision on this complicated system.
All Member States concerned have made claims for an increase in guaranteed areas.
Certain Member States and representatives of the European Parliament have insisted on a rapid decision-making process concerning the set-aside percentage for the next year.
I think that she used the same argument as the one that I have just made.
Specific Commission proposals already exist for some areas of production, and others will follow in the course of the year.
The reports on the olive oil sector and the tobacco report are currently the subject of detailed discussions by both the European Parliament and the Council.
Similar documents for agricultural development are also in preparation.
The downward trend in interest rates is resulting in an adjustment of the monthly surcharges on the intervention price for cereals and rice and on the storage cost compensation for sugar.
As the Council cut the flax subsidy by 7.5 % last year, without at the same time adjusting the subsidy for hemp, which can replace flax in the rotation of crops, we are proposing that the hemp subsidy should be reduced in the same way this year.
The subsidies for fish farms, introduced in 1992 to compensate for falling prices, should also be brought more closely into line with the actual price trend.
I should prefer not to pursue this argument further at this stage, but I would point out that the Commission's proposed ECU 1.4 billion annual reduction in the compensation payments seems quite modest in comparison with past over-compensation.
Let me now take a closer look at the amendments to the other seven proposals for regulations.
Therefore, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 7, 11, 15 and 17.
On the other hand, Amendment No 47 calls for the abolition of all monthly subsidies for the cereals sector.
Secondly, Amendments Nos 6, 8 and 9 refer to the rice sector and are intended to expedite the reform agreed upon last year.
However, this problem can only be solved in the context of Council discussions.
As far as Amendment No 5 is concerned, it makes little sense in this situation to support imports by setting the import quotas in advance.
Thirdly, Amendments Nos 12, 13, 14 and 15, relating to the sugar sector, are intended to reintroduce government subsidies in Spain and Portugal.
The Commission is therefore against re-opening this matter again at present.
Sixthly, Amendment No 2 on protein crops envisages improving the competitiveness of protein crops as compared with other agricultural crop plants.
The Commission is sympathetic to the aim of this proposal, but has already proposed an improvement in connection with the resetting of the agricultural premiums.
Seventhly, Amendment No 30 on olive oil.
The second premium for bulls at the age of 22 months has been done away with in the meantime, as you know.
I do recognize, however, that this kind of exceptional arrangement has always been granted in the past and would be compatible with the overall concept of this price package.
The new plantations for the first of these years are already laid down in Regulation 15/92, so that any further increase would be unjustified.
This report deals with the problem of the advance payments for oilseeds and the proposal to reduce compensatory payments for arable crops.
On the assumption that the Commission's draft budget for 1998, rather than that of DG VI, is correct, we need to achieve savings of ECU 1.353 billion from the reduction in compensation for arable crops; otherwise we would have to carry forward the 1998 advance payments for oilseeds to the 1999 budget.
This shows clearly that the effect of postponing the advance payments would merely be to achieve apparent savings, since the savings achieved in one budgetary year would result in expenditure in another budgetary year.
By reducing the compensatory payments for arable crops, however, we achieve genuine savings in all future budgets.
The implementation of the budget, as a matter of compliance with the principle of budgetary discipline for which the European Parliament, among others, has so often called, requires that the Commission should avoid unnecessary expenditures where possible.
On that basis, the Commission simply cannot avoid maintaining its proposal that the compensatory payments for arable crops should be reduced.
Regarding those amendments which relate to modulating the compensatory payments for the various producers by reducing the set-aside premium, but without any change in the cereals premium, I would say that this idea is already reflected in the Commission's proposal.
A detailed analysis of the breakdown of the compensatory payments in the arable crop sector will be one of the key points of the future sectoral study.
The development of set-aside has had an important influence on cereal production in the Community in recent years.
Setting the level of compensatory payments for set-aside at the same level as compensatory payments for cereals would bring about an indirect modulation.
In this context, I would also remind the House that, among arable crops, the durum wheat sector is the best equipped with budgetary resources.
Regarding Amendments Nos 2, 7 and 10 on increasing the maximum guaranteed areas, especially for young farmers, the Commission does share the feelings of the Committee on Agriculture, but the change in the arrangements governing the entitlements of individual farms to maximum guaranteed areas already meets these concerns.
In conclusion, I should like to say something about the oral question regarding the set-aside rate for the 1998 harvest.
As far as this question is concerned, I am of course well aware that farmers want to have a clear picture before sowing - before the autumn, in other words - of the proportion of their land they are going to have to set aside for the 1998 harvest.
However, this is no reason to jump to conclusions, because there is no undertaking and no legal obligation to make a proposal or reach a decision before 30 June 1997.
It is the most absolute status quo ever seen in this Chamber in terms prices and related measures, and is examined in the report by Mr Sturdy.
Mr Funk, I think it is a little convenient to put your trust in the chronic generosity of the Commission's agricultural spending forecasts, which looks like turning up again in 1997 as well and in the end all the adjustments will be made painlessly in 1998.
That is why, with a report this armour-plated and ultra-conservative, Mr Funk has lost an opportunity to make the European Parliament's voice heard more strongly on the objective problems which exist in our agricultural budget.
The cohesion report informs us about the redistributive problems of the CAP.
Nothing new was added in the estimates of overcompensation provided yesterday by the Commission.
I do not agree with the 7 per cent cut in income support, not because cuts are involved, but because they are linear cuts, piling injustice on injustice.
The Socialist Group's amendments should save about ECU 500-600 million on the 1998 budget.
As for the sender, Commissioner Fischler, I do not understand why you told the agriculture ministers there were no further budgetary reasons to cut arable land.
We have here in front of us the preliminary draft of the 1998 budget adopted by your Commission.
In the second place we must say that the problems of Europe's farmers will not be solved by this simple cut now which is detached from rather than linked to aid for arable crops.
The CAP is highly unbalanced and it is essential for the Commission, the Council and all of us to face up to that.
Nevertheless, the next reform of the CAP will have to consider very carefully in its aid system the question of equity in incomes support.
In fact, apart from certain exceptions, the proposals again take up the provisions on prices and the organization of markets in line with the stability policy applied the day after the 1992 reform.
First, the reduction in the monthly increments in intervention prices for cereals and rice and storage refunds for sugar to take account of the fall in interest rates.
The impact of the budget on all these proposals translates into a saving of ECU 82 million for 1998, according to the Commission's estimates.
It should also be recalled that this same Commission has already proposed reducing aid for arable crops, which should free up an amount of ECU 1.4 million, as others have mentioned.
The economic forecast for the 1997 financial year borrowing requirement, as established in February, amounts to ECU 41, 050 million, which exceeds the budget credits by ECU 245 million and leaves a margin of ECU 755 million as compared with the guidelines.
There is also an important reduction in the milk and milk products sector, particularly in the supplementary withdrawal rate which remains to be declared for 1995/1996, and is estimated for the period 1996-1997.
The reduction in the requirements for arable crops is principally due to oilseeds.
I think the Funk report should be supported, especially on the stabilization of beef, the proposal not to postpone payments for oilseeds but to pay, as from 16 October, only that part of the advance for which there is no possibility of coverage in the 1997 budget.
The Baldarelli report is right to stress the proposal to increase the national areas earmarked for durum wheat cultivation to help young farmers and readjust out of date valuations.
Mr President, since I think it is the first time that Mr Van Aartsen has attended the plenary session in Strasbourg I should like to welcome him here.
Mr President, the prices package that we are looking at this evening is principally part of the strict budgetary policy currently being applied in the different Member States.
The Liberal Group supports the Commission's proposal, in its overwhelming majority, to limit the increase in the agricultural budget to 0.45 % and, in this context, it is also supporting, to a great extent, the Commission's proposals in the field of prices.
If the Commission now wants to apply this aid to incomes in other sectors, it will lose its credibility because it will be introducing a half-baked system.
I hope that the final outcome of the votes will enable my Group to consider that it has substantially improved certain aspects of the prices package: but I have considerable reservations right now.
But the arguments have changed.
I have already pointed out to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that a linear reduction is somewhat unimaginative.
Here again, I can hardly wait to see how your group will vote on our present application.
Who knows, we in my group may even make our voting decision conditional on yours.
I believe we must make it clear that we want to move away from a world market orientation towards a single market orientation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have a strange feeling that in this debate we are swimming in a sea of incoherence.
Yet, in reality, you only leave the choice between lowering prices or set-asides to guarantee the CAP's future.
I am sorry but I think you lack a little imagination if you limit yourself to accounting solutions whereas the countries of central and eastern Europe are looking for tangible signs about the next CAP and the forthcoming negotiations on the COMs are looming.
Increasing pressures are being exerted on the European Union to accelerate the liberalization of its farm markets.
The prices package seems acceptable in the current context of strict budgetary rigour.
We must all take part in those efforts and it is in that spirit that my Group agrees to accept the Commission's proposals.
It is again this accounting spirit that leads the Commission to finance BSE related measures out of the producers of certain arable crops.
My Group has always opposed this system.
I agree with everything Mr Funk has said.
The rapporteur told us that it is going to cost ECU 170m.
The European Commission has been very good in the support it has given through intervention.
The farmers are now paying a terrible price for the BSE crisis.
In reality, behind this technical arrangement, which is rather tight-fisted, hides the essence of the political choices and I would even say philosophical choices.
Mr Cunha explained to us last year that there were 5 % budgetary reserves.
We are also preparing for the Delors III or Santer I package, i..e in the persecutive of the 1999 multiannual budgetary programming we are cutting agricultural spending every year.
But, above all, the prices package is preparing for the package-deal for the year 2000, in the trade negotiations with the United States and in the Geneva framework.
That is tantamount to saying that all the measures taken from 1990 to 1992 only prepared the way for Blair House and that all current measures - Sturdy included, as it were - are for preparing the negotiations in the year 2000, when the six year peace will be over.
We are beginning to give in to the United States even before they ask us.
In reality, Mr Sturdy, and you know I like you a lot, we have a philosophical divergence over this.
This Anglo-Saxon model is a model of the invisible hand, but it is really the visible hand of capitalism.
This is the divergence that separated Keynes from Adam Smith and Cambridge from Oxford.
However, at this moment, it seems that the Commissioner is presenting them separately, as if in the framework of a possible reform of the farming policy.
On those lines, the proposals made by the Socialist Group head in that direction.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I address the House on these three reports as the rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets for the 1998 budget.
I believe we shall have to discuss this further in the course of the ad hoc procedure.
The simplest overall solution, both for us in this House and for the Council, would certainly have been to accept the Commission's proposal.
So the biggest income loss will be borne by the markets that have not been reformed since 1992 rather than by those, such as cereals market, that have been reformed.
I can think, for example, of about 15 different fruits and vegetables for which the markets have been reformed but for which no compensatory mechanisms have been provided.
It is right that we should propose a small increase in the support prices for 1998 for these products, smaller, or at the most, equal to anticipated average Community inflation, because it is likewise not coincidental that agricultural in the south of the Community is coming to believe more and more that it is being persecuted.
The relative effects of these cuts, particularly on the viability of agricultural production, will be greater in the Union's remote areas than in the better production areas.
A cut of almost a third in set-aside support would be contrary to the objective of reducing surpluses in the cereals sector.
The CAP reform was implemented and it was relatively of most benefit to the farmers in the better production areas.
When the Commission proposes making cuts in support to bring about savings, these cuts should be targeted taking account of the relative effect of the cuts on the viability of production.
Within the European Union each country tries to produce as much as possible of its own food itself.
In the USA's industrial-scale agricultural production system, where specialization has been taken to extremes, food has to be transported thousands of kilometres to the customers' tables.
Farming plays the role of an exchange currency in relations with non-Community countries, as on the internal market, and priority is given to the principle of free competition.
This is the case at present in the fruit and vegetable sector.
The change of government in France might contribute to that in the framework of the reorientation of European construction proposed by the joint declaration by the socialist and communist parties.
Mr President, farmers need a stable and predictable working framework if we want to put a stop to the loss of jobs in the sector, where a further 230 000 jobs were shed in 1996.
This year, since 14 May, the Commission has again had to impose that tax in order to guarantee internal European Union supplies.
As for the agricultural budget, we know that the EAGGF-Guarantees budget will only be increased by 0.5 %.
The real reason is the introduction of the single currency and its corollary, the respect of the Maastricht convergence criteria.
As for durum wheat, I should like to draw your attention to Amendment No 5, which we tabled and adopted in committee, for durum wheat areas to be set at an inter-regional level.
We have tabled another amendment that was also adopted in committee, making things as flexible as possible for farmers.
I hope that the Council will agree to our proposal on that point as well.
Mr President, the EU agricultural policy has in many respects outlived its usefulness.
We must therefore view this proposal from the Commission as a challenge that has both economic and environmental advantages.
I think that the Commission proposal shows a realistic attitude to the problems of world market prices.
All things considered, we must ensure sustainable agriculture with quality products in the EU.
But having said that I must immediately add - and I am speaking mostly to Members, but also to the Council and the Commission - that in my opinion we would be mistaken if, at the end of the debate this evening and in the voting tomorrow and the next day, we were to abandon the very important discussion that has been opened here this evening.
I hope the lesson of sorts that we are learning in this debate will help Parliament find the right road in its relations with the Commission and the Council.
Farming is about producing food but also about managing the rural environment of which farmers are the main custodians.
While it is true that the CAP and accompanying measures have made a significant contribution to market stability and to managing production to market requirements, direct payments have been of immense benefit in ensuring the economic survival of many farming families, in particular those with small and medium-sized farms.
In his report Mr Sturdy understandably highlights the need for budget management, in particular in the context of EMU.
While acknowledging that the agricultural budget represents a significant proportion of the overall EU budget, it seems wrong that proposed restrictions are based more on what remains after we provide for the agreed 8 % annual increase in structural funds rather than the actual needs of European agriculture.
It should also be noted that the roll-over in farm prices represents in fact a reduction in farm prices when inflation is taken into account, not to mention the problems associated with currency revaluation.
If the industry is to expand it can only do so in the context of competitiveness in the world market.
I understand the rapporteur's view on farm price support at this time, in particular as we enter negotiations on a new world trade agreement, CAP reform and further enlargement to the east.
I think they have conveyed the seriousness of the situation and recognized that the reform of the agricultural policy must continue.
That is the future for agriculture in Europe.
Mr President, according to the preliminary draft 1998 budget agricultural expenditure can only increase by up to 0.5 %.
Furthermore the 1.3 billion extra ECU earmarked for the BSE crisis also have to be financed from this tight framework.
It is not fair to reduce overall subsidies by targeting cereals because, in certain Member States, growers have been overcompensated.
Like Mr Funk, the rapporteur, I think that as an alternative to reducing income subsidies the 1998 budget should be discharged using expenditure which was not used in 1997 for payments targeting oil-seed growers.
I recall that promises were made during the 1992 reforms and I should point out that the agricultural directive allows for a supplementary increase of 2 billion ECU.
As far as the Sturdy report is concerned, I agree with the freeze on agricultural prices.
Given the inflation rate, that possibly means a decrease in real terms but market prices and farmers' incomes depend more on management of the European market than the rate of intervention prices.
But this cannot lead to a reduction in promotional activities.
I should like the Commissioner to tell us whether he wants to use the millions of ECU which have been saved to promote sales.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the issue today is not to do with documents, nor is it to do with disagreements about the structure that is to take us into the next millennium - the issue is the very important one of farm prices and compensation rules, though these things are not as controversial as they were in the past.
This change is also welcome.
The cultivation of durum wheat has a long tradition in Germany.
Mr President, this debate on farm prices has been very much eclipsed by the financial effects of BSE in which the repercussions of a disaster in one sector being imposed on another is only part of the scourge.
In my view, Europe is facing a fresh financial debacle, namely that of swine fever, a disease which regularly crops up here and there and has currently hit my country where costs, in the Netherlands alone, have already reached 150 million ECU.
Although it is true that in some cases such reductions even pose a threat to what was envisaged in the 1992 reform, it certain that for over 80 % of farmers - for instance those in Portugal - and it should be remembered that Portugal is the only one of the four cohesion countries facing a net loss in agricultural terms - such proposals will surely annoy Portuguese farmers whose income has already been reduced so much.
In some cases the European Parliament, through the Sturdy report, made no changes.
In other cases it made proposals aimed at keeping prices at the levels for the previous year - which was moreover the method we used for this current marketing year.
Mr President, today's debate gives us the opportunity to discuss farm prices for 1997/1998 and, at the same time, matters relating to the level and distribution of the agricultural expenditure appropriations.
The parameters of this joint debate extend far beyond the 1997/1998 prices package, the set-aside changes and the support system for certain arable products.
The new priorities of the Union, the stringent financial programmes and the proposed enlargement, for which the timetable remains unclear and the cost undetermined, are, essentially, at the heart of the problem.
The ECU 1.4 billion saving on arable crop support and the linear distribution of the support to all producers will have its worst effect on the small producers.
Apart from the fact that this proposal is required to balance the budget, it is also a small step towards adjusting to the conditions of the world market, an adjustment which I welcome.
Mr President, the Funk reports are about actions to limit the production of beef and ways to pay for those actions.
The drop in consumption Europe-wide has been between 10 % and 15 %, so we have to cut production or we have to promote the eating of beef.
For every ECU 50m we invest in this way we will make a saving of ECU 100m.
I therefore particularly welcome the fact that the Committee on Agriculture has reassessed the situation and voted in favour of granting the durum wheat growing subsidy for 9, 600 hectares of land in Austria.
The care and maintenance of natural resources, greater attention to environmental issues and the adaptation and continuing development of agriculture are important aspects of an integrated policy, in my view.
The confidence of the farmers can be gained only by a policy planned on a relatively long-term basis.
I should mention in this connection that it is important that farmers are able to earn an income from their own original production, and that compensatory payments are only compensation.
Seven years ago I was in the Parliament in Papua New Guinea having a far better time than I am here.
Mr President, the question about set-aside prompts me to mention two or three things.
First, the debate regarding the set-aside rate for the end of 1998 is still merely speculative, although farmers are supposed to know where they stand as soon as possible.
As you know, we can offset 85 % of any voluntary set-aside against overcultivation of the major crop.
That brings me to my second point.
In the autumn of 1995, Commissioner, you told the Council of Agriculture Ministers that a national offsetting option for the basic land area would be in existence by as early as the end of 1996.
Then you'll find we're on your side!
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, Mr President of the Council, the current CAP is severely out of line with the different political, economic and social realities of the European Community and lacks integrity in its thinking.
It allocates 47 % of the whole Community budget to a highly privileged minority of 20 % of European farmers who receive approximately 80 % of all aid.
The implementation of this rigorous control should become a commercial emblem which is highly prized by the Community's internal and external markets.
The collapse of the market and the collapse of consumer confidence due to BSE has caused a huge income drop for farmers.
In Ireland this drop is somewhere around 19 % with livestock farmers suffering even greater reductions in income.
I fully acknowledge the work of Commissioner Fischler in softening the market blow and I thank him for the help he has provided.
Turning briefly to the reports, the proposal from the Commission to allocate an extra ECU 1.4 billion to the beef sector is very welcome but I cannot accept the method of funding proposed, namely to reduce aid to cereal farmers by the same amount.
I believe the necessary funding can be found elsewhere, perhaps from savings and some delay in payments.
I support the proposal that set-aside be fixed at 5 % for the 1998 harvest but without reducing payments for land taken out of production.
As rapporteur on an earlier set-aside report I asked that the rates be set each year in July at the latest to enable farmers to plan properly.
I am now asking the Council and the Commission to make an immediate decision at 5 % set-aside with the current level of area aid maintained.
If possible I should like to ask you, Mr President, and the European Parliament through you, to issue an opinion on the prices package.
I think that it is obviously necessary for the decision-making process in the Council for it to receive an opinion from the European Parliament because, without it, the Council cannot do its work and I think that it would be in the interest of farmers and farms throughout Europe for a decision to be taken at the end of June on next year's prices package.
I think the price package has been discussed in a very constructive spirit.
The reason the price package actually exists is in order to define the appropriate production conditions for the next financial year, to the extent that those conditions are within the jurisdiction of the Council and Parliament.
I admit that our proposals, in the form presented, may have overemphasized the budgetary argument on the basis of the budget situation at that time.
Regarding the argument advanced by the hard-currency countries, our calculations have certainly shown that cases of over-compensation have occurred in hard-currency countries, too, not just in countries that have seen devaluations in recent years.
Mr Fantuzzi, I freely acknowledge that your idea whereby the first step should be to equate the set-aside premiums with the standard cereal premiums does imply a degree of modulation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Thursday.
The authorities in the Member States do not know how to deal with this regulation which has just entered into force.
Mr Bangemann, we have had many opportunities to fence with each other in the past, and indeed we have assured each other, more or less indirectly, of our mutual esteem.
In the text of the Regulation adopted by the mediation committee - and nothing could be more democratic than that in the European Union nowadays - it says that it is possible for the Commission to issue implementing provisions.
But if it exercised that option, then its duty would be to ensure that this legislation is applied in the Union.
But I shall be satisfied if I hear you say that you feel certain that, in the light of the conclusions of the mediation committee, consumers now have the right to receive comprehensive information on genetically modified foods when they differ from conventional foods, and not just in the accumulation of all the things they will find in the regulation, when nutritional value, nutritive characteristics and many other things are taken together.
I should like to hear you say today, Mr Bangemann, that you are working on implementing provisions.
I know that there are some Member States that want that.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PPE Group I would like to give the reasons for the questions we put.
But an EU regulation becomes directly applicable law in every Member State on the day on which it enters into force - 15 May, in this case.
Every regulation which becomes applicable from a certain date in 15 Member States of the European Union inevitably causes problems of interpretation and implementation in the early stages, especially with such a difficult subject as this.
This view is not only nonsensical but contrary to the wishes of the majority in the European Parliament.
Although a regulation came into force on 15 May of this year, we absolutely do not know how this regulation is to be interpreted by the Member States in certain areas.
The Commission never said that.
The Commission is working on it.
In any decision on approval, the provisions of Article 8 are applied to the specific case and the labelling arrangements and forms are defined.
Those, essentially, were the questions asked in this House.
Parliament celebrated it as a major victory over the Commission.
We would have liked to see you making some effort to make it clear to the 15 Member States of this Union in which direction they were supposed to be heading.
I believe in all seriousness, Mr Bangemann, that the Novel Food Regulation is a good first move in this new direction.
Mr President, I want to put a scenario to Commissioner Bangemann.
The Commissioner knows that and I know that.
Most European Union citizens who take an interest in this matter will have assumed that there is a new law providing protection from 15 May.
The Commissioner dealt well with the argument this evening in terms of Parliament's responsibility and, as a member of the conciliation team, I take part of that burden of responsibility.
The Commission is involved in the proposal when it first comes to us.
We have not had a single case so far, and as far as labelling is concerned we laid down detailed labelling requirements in the regulation that apply immediately and mandatorily in the Member States.
You referred to a directive.
The requirement is that anyone who uses those two substances in the processing chain should indicate that they have been genetically modified, irrespective of whether or not the three criteria apply.
Mrs Schleicher, the reason I have been so involved in this issue of the Novel Food Regulation is that I believe that we shall be doing the consumer a disservice if we abandon these labelling principles.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Thursday.
