Madam President, I refer to page 8 of the Minutes for yesterday where it says: ' The President closed the debate' .
I wish to protest most strongly against the way in which the Council has pressurized us over the financial assistance for Bulgaria and Macedonia.
The Council's disregard for Parliament once again shows up the European institutions in a very bad light, and makes it urgently necessary to have a fundamental revision.
Pack report (A4-197/97) We share the opinion that sport plays an important role in the development of young people and also in public health.
I cannot support Amendment No. 3 from the Socialist group, because the amendment proposal means that giving public aid to professional sporting associations would be forbidden.
In the Union, sport is practised by more than 100 million Europeans, through tens of thousands of sports clubs, and there has been no overview for action to be taken at Community level.
France as a sporting nation has its advantages but also its weaknesses and, according to our friends in the Union, France is often bad at sport because so many schoolchildren do not attend sport at school, as many as 15 %, even though it is compulsory.
The Commission should draw up a green paper on the sports sector and set up a special group to define the outlines of comprehensive development in this area.
Madam President, I do not want to prolong the discussion, but an explanation of vote means, I am explaining why I voted in such and such a way.
This vote must therefore be accepted without any personal explanations.
Two years later, in 1991, the Council adopted a detailed resolution on a human rights clause, democratic principles and development.
A further year later, during the negotiations on and adoption of the Maastricht Treaty, the political will to include a human rights clause was confirmed in Article 130u.
Our partners - in this context, as I have already said, the ACP countries - are entitled to know what the situation is.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs is calling for Parliament to have a right of assent as regards the suspension of cooperation under Lomé.
The human rights clause was a step forward, but one of the main problems with this was that it was never applied consistently, either in terms of procedure or substance.
We also fully support the Commission's proposal that Council decisions on suspension under Article 366a should be decided by qualified majority, and we insist that if Council fails to agree on the principle of qualified majority under the proposed procedure, then Parliament should be reconsulted as a matter of urgency.
We call on the Commission and the Council to ensure an early involvement of the European Parliament in all cases of suspension under Article 366a.
I would just like to reiterate two important points that emerged from our discussion: one was that these decisions should be taken only by qualified majority voting in the Council and, if that is not agreed, then Parliament should be reconsulted immediately; secondly, Parliament should be involved in all cases of suspension at the earliest possible opportunity.
It is not a question of whether a country is an ACP country or not, but of whether a Member States has specific interests.
Following the events of the last two years in Africa, everyone knows that suspending development aid is in many cases an extremely necessary, often unavoidable and sadly not always effective measure.
Generally speaking, however, it is true that countries which take respect for human rights seriously also tend to respect the right to development in the broader sense.
Since the beginning, cooperation between the European Union and the ACP countries has in theory been based on the respect of human rights and freedoms.
The Commission's proposal is concerned only with the decision making procedure in European institutions.
It is important to underline that this does not alter, nor can it alter the procedure which is enshrined in Article 366a of the Lomé Convention.
The Article proposes that appropriate action is taken immediately in urgent situations, or in the case where a country refuses consultation.
The debate is closed.
In fact within that ministry the reference laboratory in Torry had the best record in attracting joint funding from the European Commission.
The Torry Institute is a very good one.
In February this year, Jacques Santer, the President of the Commission, assured the European Parliament, in a reaction to the BSE crisis, which had just been mentioned, that in future all veterinary-law decisions would be taken within the framework of the codecision procedure.
This procedure is now being applied, actually for the first time, in the case of the directive that covers hygiene and health provisions in the fisheries sector, and in this case, in particular, the control of marine biotoxins in the production and marketing of live mussels and fishery products.
In Amsterdam the 15 EU governments will certainly not be able to ignore it any longer.
For this purpose, every Member State has to designate a national reference laboratory which is responsible, in particular, for the control of marine biotoxins.
Mr President, I am glad we are debating Mr Macartney's report today.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Gradin, we all know that biotechnology is potentially of great benefit to mankind.
Extending the mandate of this group is certainly welcome.
The mandate of this body must remain strictly consultative.
The Commission has therefore urged the group to put together a plan for their forthcoming work.
Based on this plan we can give the group a new mandate, which we will do at the end of the year.
This will also enable us to strengthen the role of the group, its structure and its position as an advisory and independent ethical group in the European debate.
There is no dispute about the opportunities that biotechnology offers, and we must take advantage of them, and we must also be aware of our responsibilities as legislators in this field.
The European Parliament was overwhelmingly against any cloning, including at the embryo stage, and we believe that the use of the Dolly process on human beings should be made a criminal offence everywhere in the world, and at least in our Member States.
In its reports and opinions to date, it merely covers the Commission's back as far as ethical issues are concerned, and in its most recent opinion on cloning, even the embryo research that has been prohibited in Germany is declared to be ethically acceptable.
The ethics advisory group operates as a sedative pill for the public.
This is very important in order to create transparency, which is something that we are demanding, and something that is so important, particularly on issues such as these, that we should be able to show the people, the citizens that we represent, exactly how we work and how we reach our decisions, particularly on such ethically difficult issues such as biotechnology in all its aspects - and you know how many of those aspects there are.
I think there is a duty to remove this ambiguity: do we want to create an ethics committee or extend the role and responsibilities of the group of advisers?
In any case it must be clear that there has to be something different and new as compared with what has happened up to now.
Relations between the European Parliament and the group of advisers or the ethics committee must be clearly regulated.
If it is possible to clone a sheep, it will obviously be possible eventually, whether it is this year or in ten years' time, to clone a human being.
I have tabled Amendment No 177 to the Rothley report.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the motion by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, because it was considerably improved by the amendment proposed by Mr Liese.
To that extent, it is also essential that we should reach agreement on this question today.
In addition - and this is also important - not until seven years after the fall of Communism did the turning point come in Bulgaria.
For this to be possible, a package of implementing provisions under Article 64 of the Europe Agreement will have to come into force.
This also has to be done - and I think that this is quite right - before the Association Council takes its decision, and this means that a joint position must be adopted by the European Union.
The European Parliament has to be consulted - and I should just like to mention this here - on the basis of Article 87 in conjunction with Article 228(2) and (3).
We, as the European Parliament, will soon have to ask ourselves what recommendations we might make in order to change this situation as quickly as possible.
Finally, there is also the principle whereby, in a case that does not involve both competition authorities - in other words when only one competition authority is competent, that authority keeps the other competition authority informed about the details of the case in question.
We know that we need a basis for trust, and we need a common basis for all the countries that are linked to the European Union within the framework of the Association Agreements, so as to ensure that there is a common competition policy within this framework.
This is going to become even more important in future.
Once again, may I ask you to vote in favour of its proposal, and to consult it often in future about this common competition policy.
The Group of the European People's Party also emphatically supports the proposal for a joint position by the Council.
I therefore thoroughly support Mrs Mann's report.
We believe that ECU 250 million over a running time of 10 years is an excellent starting aid for the new Bulgarian government, which is making a determined effort to reform the public budgets and to create the legal framework conditions for a social market economy.
However, today, on 13 June, we really cannot see why the Commission did not consult the Committee on External Economic Relations immediately after the adoption of its submission on 22 May.
We should remember that the European Union is not the only body which is contributing to the restructuring of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and thus of Bulgaria, and that the concessions that the European Union has already made in the agreements that have been concluded, even though they accelerate access for those countries to the European Union, to the Community market, in the industrial products sector, constitute only a relative advantage because the overall framework of relations is shaped out in a much more general form by the GATT agreements.
What I think is of much greater importance, Mr President, is the message that must be sent to Bulgaria, and to the Bulgarian people directly, concerning the question of membership of the European Union.
Mr President, let me begin by congratulating Mrs Mann on her report on the rules of competition under Article 64 in the European Agreement with Bulgaria.
It also provides a framework for cooperation between the competition authorities in Bulgaria and the Commission.
Negotiations on state subsidies have proved far more complicated than the proposal which we are discussing here today.
The Commission and the Council working party have thankfully reached an agreement on the implementation of a first round of state subsidy regulations for Czechoslovakia.
But it is present in the current document.
However, as you can see, in some cases it happens like this.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, on 1 June the Commission approved a package of measures, including a price floor, the prospect of standby dumping duties, an indicative export volume ceiling, an increased Norwegian export tax and tight enforcement procedures that will counteract the dumping and subsidization of Norwegian salmon on the European market and eliminate the damage caused to European salmon producers in the process.
The negotiations followed an investigation which showed that Norwegian salmon was being dumped and subsidized between 1995 and 1996, harming the interests of the European, mainly Scottish, salmon farmers.
The Commission is aware of the difficult situation in which salmon farmers in the Community located in rural and often depressed regions find themselves.
Norwegian salmon exporters will undertake to sell into the European Union market above an agreed minimum price per kilo.
As in all anti-dumping cases, each party including the Commission and the complainants retain the right to request or initiate a review.
The salmon market has, in fact, expanded by an average of 18 % a year for the last four years.
This will rise to 6 % if the export ceiling is breached.
Under Article 90 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, the Commission is duty bound to consult with us on international agreements.
Those on the European side were somewhat handicapped in that they did not have before them the evidence which the Commissioner has just read before this House.
The Commissioner, Sir Leon Brittan, has behaved abominably over this issue.
Neither the Rex Committee nor the Committee on Fisheries have had a major exposition on this matter by Sir Leon Brittan whereas some other committees have had some discussion.
The Commission has to learn some lessons from this issue.
We are not happy about what has happened in this event.
I would like to make this point most forcibly, but Sir Leon Brittan is globetrotting somewhere else today and is not here to give us an explanation.
I would like to congratulate Alan Macartney for his dexterity in keeping this matter before you as a Commission and making sure that we got a statement today.
Alan Macartney deserves our thanks too.
The debate is closed.
