Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 21 November 1997.
I extend our official welcome to the delegation and congratulate them on their constructive and valuable work in the context of the first meeting between the European Union and the Russian Parliamentary Cooperation Committee.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of 21 November 1997 have been distributed.
Very well, Mr Bazin.
The Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam has brought many benefits to this Parliament and the Union, but the ministers did not manage to adapt the Union for enlargement to another dozen members.
The Council's position that we do not need to worry about that until the Union has more than twenty members, has led to a proposal for a division of the candidates into an elite group of five against the rest.
We should be glad we have such courageous governments and citizens in central Europe, but we have to protect them carefully.
If an Intergovernmental Conference is held first, then afterwards we will only have to deal with ten very different central and eastern European countries and Cyprus.
Not until the end of the road will our political opinion be given, yes or no, to their accession.
Otherwise this country would, for example, cooperate constructively on the Cyprus issue, or offer its services.
Partly because of many well-meaning friends in Turkey, the European Conference is also a suitable bridge to ensure that, in addition to the Customs Union, the links with Turkey will be enduring ones and will be protected.
But calculating how we can foster accession financially and work out the cost implications is advisable.
The difference between us amounts to approximately a quarter cent on a tax guilder.
I think that the present frugal policy of our Parliament will make it possible to achieve the enlargement within the financial parameters agreed earlier.
The first is that as citizens of the European Union we now have the historic opportunity to transcend Munich - to reverse the events of 1939 when the people of central and eastern Europe were abandoned - and this must be done on the basis of what we have built.
I think the Commission will be sympathetic to this basic approach, and once the European Council has worked out the general framework, the Commission can begin the process of bilateral negotiations with these countries, with openness and a clear sense of its responsibility to Parliament.
Mr President, I am not going to go on much longer.
I believe that is the spirit in which we must confront this unprecedented challenge for the European Union.
Mr President, firstlI would like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Budgets sincerely for their invaluable help with the preparation of this report.
This is a first reaction report on the Agenda 2000 communication and, notwithstanding the importance of enlargement, it considers many other aspects as well.
We must remember that the structural fund regulations expire in 1999, whether enlargement is to take place or not, and therefore we will need to revise our cohesion policy, and everything included in the existing category II of the financial perspectives.
All these questions were waiting to be answered, and the European Commission has tried to answer them by means of Agenda 2000, which includes a financial framework for the period 2000-2006.
In fact, between 1988 and 1997 we have never reached the prevailing own resources ceiling, and there was only one financial year in which the budgetary authority (of which Parliament forms a part) was unable to make significant savings compared with the financial perspectives.
For example, that growth of GNP in the Fifteen should be 2.5 % per year.
However, in the previous period, 1991-1996, the real growth among the Fifteen was 1.5 %, one point less each year.
If it were to continue at 1.5 % during the period 2000-2006, the budget planned by the Commission would exceed the 1.27 % ceiling in five of the seven budgetary years.
If the accession date or the number of new Member States changes, can anybody be sure now, in autumn 1997, what our future members' requirements would be, without even knowing the content of the accession treaties, or what the transitional periods will be - if there are any - for each country and sector?
The Commission's proposal oversimplifies the Council debate, but it is based on what we in the Committee on Budgets have termed "virtual savings' .
We are being asked to exercise austerity and responsibility and, for our edification, the Council rejects a reduction in cereal aid, a sector in which it has been shown that overcompensation was paid, to the tune of ECU 3 thousand million, by the member governments of the Council.
If that is the Council's remedy for CAP reform, the Commission's proposal will experience an annual financial shortfall of about ECU 4 billion just in Category I - that is, agricultural spending.
And that takes no account of the financial engineering they propose for objectives 5a and 5b of the structural funds, which they are trying to include in Category I.
Similarly, the proposal contains a series of interesting points on cohesion policy, including the very maintenance of the cohesion fund, which will provoke more serious objections from Parliament in the future, although we may already hint at them.
I want to make it clear that we fully understand why the Commission is proposing to concentrate funds in the least welloff and least-developed zones of the current Union, taking it for granted that it is neither logical nor fair for enlargement to take place to the detriment of these regions.
All of this leads us to make the following offer to the Council and the Commission.
We accept the financial content of the Commission's communication as the starting point.
But let us be clear about this: Parliament thinks that the challenges facing the European Union mean that it is advisable for us to have budgetary peace, and therefore we call for the formal presentation of the financial perspectives for the Union of the Fifteen, including of course a chapter on enlargement, and preferably an interinstitutional agreement on financial and budgetary discipline.
Therefore, it is no good pretending that we can guarantee at this stage that the whole of Agenda 2000, including enlargement, will involve no cost to anybody.
The theme around which I wish to develop my speech is based on the plan for a stronger and wider Union, which induces us to cherish a high level of political ambition.
The communication from the Commission regarding Agenda 2000 and enlargement, together with the opinions on each of the applicant countries, probably represents one of the most important issues for the European Union.
The Luxembourg Presidency is aware that the fundamental stage which we must pass through in December in Luxembourg has a political impact of the highest importance.
In June, the European Council of Amsterdam, in anticipation of the December deadline, had already traced the general outlines of our work, since it invited the Council to examine in detail the opinions of the Commission, as well as Agenda 2000, and to present a report to the European Council.
Thus the European Council of Luxembourg must take the necessary decisions on the enlargement process as a whole, particularly regarding the practicalities of the initial phase of negotiations, the strengthening of the pre-accession strategy, and other methods which will strengthen cooperation between the European Union and all the applicant countries.
It is also understood that the European Council must, on the basis of the Council's work, draw up general directions with a view to preparing political reforms, particularly agricultural and structural, as well as drawing up the future financial framework.
It is far more than a stage, it is a measure of our political ambition, and it is for this reason essential that the conditions of its achievement should be the best and the most equitable for all.
The General Affairs Council has discussed this issue five times, including at its informal meeting in Mondorf.
On 24 November, the Presidency submitted to the Council, on its own initiative, a first draft of a report on the issue in general.
A second part is dedicated to questions regarding enlargement.
The process of accession will take place in stages, according to the particular pace of each applicant country and according to its degree of preparedness.
The European Parliament furthermore proposes exactly the same thing in its draft resolution.
It is a question of ensuring that all applicant countries are capable of joining the Union, and thus the commencement of negotiations is but one factor in this process.
The European Conference, the strengthening of the pre-accession strategy, the holding of ministerial level meetings between Member States, the Union and applicant countries, as well as the regular examination of progress accomplished by applicants, are other factors in the process.
It is vital, in the coming years, to concentrate our efforts in order both to prepare applicant countries for membership and to prepare the Union itself for enlargement under the best possible conditions.
As you well know, at this stage, none of the applicants from eastern and central Europe fully satisfy all of the criteria.
The Council has also taken a positive view of the Commission's proposal to centre Phare around an accession perspective by setting two priority objectives: the strengthening of administrative and judicial capacity and investment linked to the resumption and implementation of the acquis .
The Council is also discussing defining a particular preaccession strategy for Cyprus, aimed at the individual needs of this island.
An important element in this process is review of the progress accomplished by each applicant country along the path to membership, in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria.
The Commission's reports will serve as a basis on which the European Council will take the necessary decisions on the conducting or extending the accession negotiations.
The moment at which the different candidates accede will depend essentially on their respect for the Copenhagen criteria and the capacity of the Union to assimilate new members.
The decision to initiate negotiations, in accordance with the procedure anticipated in article O of the treaty, does not imply that these negotiations will be concluded at the same time.
May I remind you that negotiations will be conducted between the fifteen Member States and each applicant country on an individual basis.
Although broad consensus exists about the opportunities such a multilateral framework for dialogue between the fifteen Member States and the countries not yet members of the Union provides for debating horizontal questions of common interest, it will be for the European Council to decide on the make-up and mandate of this conference.
Turkey, whose eligibility for membership is unquestionable but which currently does not fulfil the political conditions, should take its place within our global approach to enlargement.
Finally, a third section of the draft report concerns the development of Union policies and the future financial framework.
As I reminded you just now, the European Council must evaluate the possibilities, where it considers necessary, of formulating general directions on the basis of which the Commission will present its proposals during 1998.
The Council will take the necessary decisions when the time comes.
The reflections undertaken by the Council therefore consist of bringing out, on the basis of proposals presented in July, the fundamental factors for the future on which it will be important for the European Council to give an opinion.
It is vital to make sure that the necessary reforms to be undertaken with a view to enlargement in the area of agriculture contribute to consolidating our common project of a stronger and more united Union, taking into account on the one hand, the demands of competitiveness and, on the other, an individual identity based on concepts of balance and quality, of harmonious rural development and respect for the environment.
Concerning economic and social cohesion, it will be necessary to put in place, at community level, overhauled instruments which are more efficient, more rational and more transparent, in order to guarantee the continuity of effort in the cohesion process between the Member States of the Union.
It is at last clear that the prospects for enlargement and policy reform demand that we look from now on into a revision of the financial perspective for the period 2000-2006, bearing in mind the need to find a balance between the new needs, brought about by the process of enlargement and the principle of budgetary austerity, without which there is no good policy.
Yesterday, COREPER analyzed the part of the draft report containing the detailed proposals presented by the delegations at the time when the proposals advanced by the Commission for each one of the policies and for the future financial framework were examined in detail.
From now on, the work of the Council will consist of identifying, on this basis, the factors around which the European Council must formulate general directions.
The European Parliament's contribution to this reflection will be very useful and you will be made a part of our deliberations.
I would like to use this opportunity to touch briefly upon the main points of enlargement and financing proposals in Agenda 2000, and to draw attention to areas on which there might still be some disagreement.
In politics it is sometimes necessary to make clear decisions, however tempting it may be to let a certain ambiguous situation continue to exist, and this serves a justified political aim.
We believe that the Member States asked for clarity when they asked the Commission to give advice on the applications for entry from the ten countries in central and eastern Europe.
The President of the Council also pointed out that this enlargement procedure included both the negotiations and the preparations.
This all depends on the efforts and results of each individual country.
For that matter, for the least advanced candidates it will mean a less effective operation which will hinder the necessary concentration on the implementation of partenariats.
By the above I wanted to explain we adhere to the differentiation between more and less advanced candidate countries, and why we differentiate between negotiations and preparation, and that this differentiation cannot in any way be taken as discrimination, let alone disqualification.
This shows very clearly the all-encompassing nature of the enlargement process.
Secondly, doubling the financial support to help each candidate country with preparations for membership.
And as from 2000 the candidate countries will receive a total of ECU 3 billion a year, of which ECU 1.5 billion will come from Phare, ECU 1 billion from the structural funds, and ECU 500 million out of the Section I Agriculture, assuming that our financial proposals are accepted by the Council.
The fifth core element is to open up the possibility for all candidates to take part in a Community programme so that they are able to get used to our programmes, institutions and working method.
I thought it would be helpful to sum up once more why the Commission made the choices it is currently submitting to the Council, and about which it would like to hear the advice and opinion of this Parliament.
Turkey has been linked to Union for some time already; through the Association Agreement, and the Custom Union, effected in 1995, reflects the special nature of our relations.
Turkey, in particular in the run-up to Luxembourg, has asked a number of times for clarity with regard to its prospects of future membership of the Union, even though Turkey understands that it is a long-term issue.
The Union for its part is asking Turkey for more clarity on its intention to overcome the political problems related to human rights, the situation in Cyprus, and the tense relationship with our Member State, Greece.
The Commission is in favour of clarity on both sides.
We therefore hope that the European Council in Luxembourg will be able to start registering positive steps in Ankara on the one hand, and that on the other hand it will formulate substantive conclusions on how Turkey might achieve EU membership.
This would do no justice to the reasonable expectations of our partners in central and eastern Europe.
In the draft report another important point is touched upon.
I think that in this, the European Parliament has chosen the same approach as the Commission in its Agenda 2000, which advocates that decisions about this should be made before the first new Member States join the Union.
Finally, a few words about financing the enlargement.
The orientation which the Commission proposes in the province of common agricultural policy and in structural measures seem to appear in the report in broad outline.
Strengthening Community policy areas which can contribute the most to employment and growth, are considered a high priority by both the Commission and the report.
The financial framework and Agenda 2000 are reference frameworks.
The proposed framework shows that it is possible to continue implementing Community policy, and gradually absorb new Member States, with the own resources ceiling at 1.27 % of GNP, whilst at the same time allowing for considerable safety margins.
The aim was to work out whether our various proposals displayed a proper general coherence from a financial point of view.
So, in accordance with its obligations, the Commission will submit two kinds of financial proposal before the end of the coming six months: a survey of financial prospects for the period 2002-2006 for a Union of fifteen Member States, taking into consideration sums which will continue to be available to cover the cost of enlargement to a number of new Member States.
The budgetary consequences of the reforms the Fifteen will have started will also be better known.
As far as the financing system is concerned, the Commission acknowledges that the current system in force meets these expectations.
The system succeeds in its most important task, namely to see to it that there are stable and sufficient means.
The distribution of the financial burden, especially after the recent changes, is in line with the fairness principle, bearing in mind the relative prosperity of the Member States.
It is unlikely that the situation will be profoundly modified during the coming period, except in the sense that inevitably, all present Member States will have to share the cost of enlargement.
It goes without saying that, in accordance with the agreement the Commission has entered, it will submit a detailed report on the working of the system of own resources in the course of 1998.
The big question has been: are you in favour of regatta or are you in favour of five plus one?
Of course we should give equal consideration to the fact that many of us are frightened of this enlargement process, because there will be migrations, because there will perhaps be less money for us or for some of us, or because some of us will be asked to pay more money.
Enlargement is not a game in which one wins and the other loses, in which Hungary, Poland and all the other countries win because we lose.
It will take time to carry out these reforms and therefore I would discard any short term prognosis.
The formula we have found, or are in the process of finding together - by this evening we will have to consider it - is in my view a thoroughly practicable formula.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is today holding its second debate on the enlargement of the European Union by ten states from central and eastern Europe and Cyprus.
On 16 July the European Commission introduced its Agenda 2000 and we discussed it on the same day.
Today we are debating on the basis of the reports by our colleagues, Arie Oostlander and Enrique Barón Crespo, and I would like to talk about these two reports.
The Group of the European People's Party passed unanimous resolutions on 1 October and 26 November in Brussels and then at its congress in Toulouse on 11 November 1997.
We, the European Parliament, which today represents 370 million people must be the advocate of the peoples of the whole of Europe.
The European Parliament, where we are now, here in Brussels - we have just moved into the new offices - is certainly much too big to be merely a European Parliament for the European Union of today!
Let us work together to ensure that as soon as possible in the next decade, which will also be a new century and a new millennium, we will be able to welcome freely elected representatives from central and eastern Europe here in the European Parliament.
The Group of the European People's Party sets itself this historic task for our old continent of Europe, which is constantly renewing itself. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to build and achieve a stronger Europe, finally reunified and reconciled with itself, is the great historic pan-European challenge which we must take up at the dawn of the Third Millennium.
It is a question not only of finally turning the page on the division of Europe imposed by Stalin at Yalta but of consolidating peace and security on our continent whilst giving our nations as a whole the possibility of spreading the human values for which they stand.
The very technical approach followed by the Commission in the Agenda 2000 document, which proposes a strategy for the enlargements to come, conceals somewhat the importance of the political, moral and cultural issues with which Europe is today confronted.
As we know, this enlargement will not be like previous ones because of its geographical and historic dimension and the difficulties due to the consequences of collectivism which has deeply affected the social structures, even the mentalities, of the applicant countries.
I doubt that a simple transposition of the "acquis communautaire' to the applicant countries, a sort of leitmotiv of the strategy proposed in Agenda 2000, will be sufficient to create the political momentum necessary to overcome the difficulties of the undertaking.
The European Council of Luxembourg must give this enthusiasm for enlargement the political inspiration that the Agenda 2000 programme lacks.
Parallel to this, accession negotiations could be opened with all the applicant countries, with no exceptions, in order to avoid recreating new divisions of an artificial and dangerous nature within Europe.
But in order to succeed, these negotiations must be undertaken within the framework of the vision of a new European architecture in which Europe is a political entity which respects the wealth of national identities, but which at the same time is clearly decided to affirm itself on the international scene in order to defend its future and the universal values which have fuelled its history.
Let us manage to find once more this spirit of adventure which up until now, unfortunately, has been so cruelly lacking. (Applause) Mr President, the most important foreign political responsibility of the European Union in the coming decades will be contributing to the security and stability of this continent.
The historical responsibility for our generation is to do for the whole of Europe as the generation Adenauer, Beyen, Monnet and Spaak did for France and Germany: to build one communal house, a joint framework within which power is subordinate to the law.
Ten central and eastern European countries, as well as Cyprus, have applied for membership.
My group agrees with the Commission's view that Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Estonia are the best prepared at this moment in time.
This pressure will come about once our citizens discover that with each new Member State the Union not only imports decision-making problems, but also extra crime.
But the Union is not ready for its new responsibilities.
It will only be able to fulfil its role as a cornerstone of stability and security effectively if it intensifies its relations with three important countries: Turkey, Russia and America.
Turkey's membership application must therefore be judged by the same criteria as apply to other countries.
But if Turkey ever wants to join the Union it must behave as a European country.
Yet it is a country that is important to Europe.
As far as Russia is concerned, the Union lacks a framework for relations which reflects the enormous significance of European-Russian relations.
NATO has brought about a permanent joint council with Russia.
Investing in stronger political relations between the Union and the United States is urgently desirable, particularly in view of the political management of enlargement of both the Union and NATO.
History gives us few such opportunities.
In the case of the Colom i Naval report on financial perspectives, our group feels able to give its support.
Our messages are as follows: Yes to enlargement, which is the appropriate response to the challenge of building Europe at this decisive moment in its history.
This needs saying clearly, and the date needs to be specified: as early as possible - the year 2000, to be precise - without waiting until the Union has been enlarged to 20 Member States.
We are very critical of the proposal to freeze the Community budget, with 1.27 % of GNP as the own resources ceiling.
We think Agenda 2000 makes very specific proposals in some sectors of the common agricultural policy, apart from the effects of enlargement -because the enlargement will have effects on the common agricultural policy.
A misplaced focus on enlargement, added to the social consequences of the so-called Stability Pact, and the conditions for nominal convergence, could become a serious obstacle to job creation, both in the Member States and in the candidate countries.
The Europe of the twenty-first century cannot be simply a market, it must be an integrated area of democracy and solidarity.
The Commission's plan is however not exactly an invitation, but rather an obstacle for those who in previous decades, at the cost of great personal privation, supported the idea of a democratic Europe in the east.
The basic decision of Copenhagen to accept the central and eastern European states was the logical political consequence stemming from the historical situation.
On the other hand they could not agree in Amsterdam on reforms which would make the EU democratic and capable of enlargement.
Therefore the Commission's proposal to begin negotiations only with five plus one corresponds to the readiness in the Council to provide in future the 20 Commissioners equivalent to one per EU Member State.
In Agenda 2000 there are no concrete proposals or ideas to solve the problems associated with a possible second wave of applicants.
With this separation of the applicants from central and eastern Europe into welcome rich countries and the poor backyard, the Commission is already causing a political mess.
Great hopes are vested in this parliament.
For a long time a clear majority in the Foreign Policy Committee has spoken out in favour of supporting the democratic forces in central and eastern European countries and not giving them the boot.
Dear Christian Democrats, why are you so laboriously withdrawing from a position which has been achieved, like the one in point 3 of the Oostlander Report?
We in the Green Party are in favour of the common start of negotiations with all applicants who have created the necessary democratic conditions and who recognize human rights and the rights of minorities.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, only a few days away from the European Council of Luxembourg, this is an occasion to state Parliament's position on what will be the great issue in years to come, the enlargement of the Union eastward.
First, as you have said, Mr President-in-Office, this enlargement is an opportunity for Europe and for ourselves.
An opportunity, too, because it is the occasion to open up a market of 500 million inhabitants, to stabilize our continent and to increase its strength in the world.
In fact, the way they are presented is not a neutral act.
Certainly, today, the political climate which dominates this country is not favourable to a strict respect for democracy and human rights, but changes are entirely possible and we must be ready to encourage Slovakia to rejoin her Czech twin sister and all the other central European countries.
In our group we are largely in favour of the text proposed by the rapporteurs in point 28 of their proposal for a resolution.
We must be able to do something other than curse or remain transfixed in immobility.
The European Union will have to support them to a far greater extent.
But the situation in some of our regions and some of our social strata is not buoyant enough for an overall reduction in the aid budgets to our Member States.
On these financial questions, as on the procedure for enlargement itself, the approach must be political, in the widest sense of the term.
Mr President, a bad text based on bad proposals: that is what the ambiguous, confusing and contradictory report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on Agenda 2000 appears to be.
It is certainly difficult to draw up a good report on an unsatisfactory basis.
We all have the feeling that we have missed a great historic rendez-vous and that the two lungs of Europe have not been reunited as they should have been, through our inability to reform Europe in time.
The Commission continues its course unperturbed, as if nothing had happened, and as if there were only one direction possible, forever building a federal Europe.
It could have been initiated within this Parliament.
It says so quite explicitly.
It omits to note that the euro, if it is brought in, will be a new and powerful factor of division between the Member States of the wider Europe.
It endorses the participation of Turkey in the European Conference, which takes any real significance out of it.
Our relations with that great country merit an approach other than this headlong rush into double-speak, unworthy of us all.
The report nowhere protests at the distortion of the CAP surreptitiously carried out in favour of enlargement.
The report raises no objections to Agenda 2000's neglect of Lomé and the ACP countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if today's debate is not the most important of this legislature, it certainly deals with one of the most significant issues, not only in this legislature but in the recent history of the European Union.
The Europe which is being extended towards the east - a great man once spoke of a Europe extending to the Urals - can surely be an essential factor for equilibrium and progress on our planet.
The enlargement must take place, but beyond the institutional reforms it is necessary to rediscover economic growth - and perhaps the single currency may not be a good trampoline - because otherwise we risk seriously disturbing the economic equilibria achieved with difficulty by candidate countries like Poland, which is today achieving success with its own development gamble to create thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Will small and medium-sized European enterprises succeed in withstanding the impact of competition from products using cheaper labour?
Resolving the Cyprus problem in an equitable way means pacifying Turkey and guaranteeing it against the temptation of religious fundamentalism which, if it should prevail in that country, would mean exponential growth in the tragedy currently being experienced by Algeria.
Everyone who has followed the developments in Bulgaria knows that its government and population are extremely motivated about joining the Union.
Enormous efforts have been made in the transition to a market economy.
During the first months of this year inflation was 300 % a month and has now been pushed back to 0.5 %.
All are clear signs of an immense amount of hard work in order to not miss out on accession.
Yet the Committee for Foreign Affairs was of the opinion that the most important political criteria had been met, and that opening negotiations will give a new impulse to the reforms in Bulgaria, and that, in addition, the Bulgarian population will start to feel a sense of belonging.
What is more, the presence of the Union will be strengthened in a region which from a political point of view is very unstable.
I have to say that I am little surprised at the categorical statements by Commissioner van den Broek, as what he is saying today is exactly the same as what he said in July.
That is why we as a Green Group prefer a flexible system with a joint start for all, but obviously individual arrivals related to the progress actually made.
The Bulgarian Government, for instance, has said publicly in its own country that they know very well that it will take at least eight years before it will be able to qualify for membership.
Secondly, I would like say that the entire process will only really have a chance of success if we manage to carry out serious agricultural reform within the Union.
There were very distinct signs of obstructions, and if we do not succeed in implementing agricultural reform in the right sense, this will have disastrous consequences for the already extremely shaky agricultural structure in the eastern European countries, which is very important in terms of employment - an average 20 % of the population still works in agriculture - and therefore accessibility for the population.
Our big question is whether this Parliament in its majority statement should continue to choose the option preferred by the Commission on 19 November, and that there should be a clear signal from this Parliament, with a view to the Luxembourg summit, so that a courageous agricultural reform which truly meets the needs of eastern European countries could really take shape.
All three were occupied by the Soviet Union for more than 50 years, interrupted only by German occupation during the Second World War.
And all three have made tremendous advances since national liberation in 1991.
There should not be a new Yalta Agreement supported by the European Union.
We Finns had to face the challenge of the Soviet Union attacking us and wishing to destroy our country in 1939.
In many part of Europe we have seen the destructive effects of so-called ethno-nationalism.
There are objective reasons why Hungary is today in a favourable position vis-à-vis Europe.
First there is the fact that this country has always been European in outlook, ever since its establishment 1, 100 years ago.
The best proof in our time is Hungary's freedom-struggle in 1956, which, if the cold war is regarded as the Third World War, might really be described as the Stalingrad of the Third World War, for since that Battle of Budapest, relations with the Soviet Union have gone steadily downhill.
All that was due to a great national unity which existed in Hungary and which is a characteristic of this nation.
I would like to refer to a fact which I only came across when I was researching for the drawing up of this report: as early as 1982 - and at that time there was absolute one-party government in the country - the government had already issued orders to the various sectors of the administration to frame all laws and regulations so that Hungary might one day join the European Union.
These are contributions to Europe which somehow remind me of what Spain brought to Europe.
I have been in this Parliament since 1979 and at that time I had the honour of being a member of the joint committee with Spain.
At that time, one of the most encouraging things was seeing how Spaniards across the political spectrum were united on the question of Europe, and therefore they have handled the transition better than any other country.
During the last referendum both fascists and communists joined forces to oppose NATO membership for Hungary, but the Hungarian people voted by a crushing majority of over 80 % in favour of NATO and that result is still significant.
These are things which show that Hungary has really belonged to Europe from the start and therefore has a right to be accepted as soon as possible, quite apart from the fact that the Hungarian economy has a thoroughly western style and has made great progress.
But it is clear that the progress achieved by Latvia up to now cannot be regarded as second rate and therefore, Mr President, we cannot raise new barriers where barriers have never existed.
The task therefore is to screw Europe together again in the political workshop after the Stalin-Hitler pact - also known as the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact - and the division of Europe into spheres of interest.
There were three independent countries which suffered heavily under this division of Europe, and they are the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
For me it is natural to think of these three countries together, since these three countries were erased as independent nations and were under the Soviet Union for 50 years.
The political signal for the democratic movement in central Europe stemmed from the Solidarity Movement of the 1980s.
Poland will have a very important role to play in this and therefore it is good that the new Polish government regards itself as part of the tradition of peaceful revolution of 1989 and seeks to align the future of Poland in the European Union.
Poland is also a big country in terms of its geography, of its population figures and of its economic potential.
Poland is also a country with the typical structural problems of an as yet unmastered modernization.
A process of transformation and structural change is required, particularly in agriculture, in the coal and steel industry and in the removal of environmental destruction.
My report describes the problems and the Commission's analysis in Agenda 2000 is very clear in these matters.
Therefore it is important that as soon as possible - and Foreign Minister Geremek underlined this himself - the Union and the applicant countries work closely together in the sphere of justice and home affairs and start, even today, to develop joint initiatives to solve problems in the fight against international crime.
Keeping entry to the EU as a goal firmly in view, there is a clear indication of the pace of the modernization process.
To tackle enlargement properly will require a substantial increase in the own resources ceiling proposed by the Commission which, at the level of 1.27 %, is clearly inadequate.
We believe that the accession of new members to the European Union should strengthen rather than undermine the European social model, which should aim for job creation and improvements in working conditions and living standards.
In this respect, questions such as strengthening essential public services, promoting equality between men and women, and protecting the environment should be given priority status.
By the same reasoning, we do not think the Union's enlargement process should be artificially speeded up, since this might result in economic shocks with harsh social consequences for the new Member States.
In conclusion, we are in favour of enlargement, but we cannot help being highly critical of the content of the Commission's proposals.
In our view, that is the message this Parliament should give out, but unfortunately this has not been sufficiently stressed in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
Mr President, in my capacity as co-rapporteur on the Czech Republic for that report, I should like to stress that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is fully in favour of starting accession negotiations with that country, notwithstanding our demand that that country should quickly find a satisfactory political solution to current discrimination against the gypsy minority, and to the various other problems related to the administration of justice and the financial system.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the founding fathers laid the bases of the Community, they stated two fundamental conditions for being a part of it: firstly and obviously, to be situated geographically in Europe, and secondly, to have democratic institutions.
I sincerely believe that each time fundamental decisions have to be taken in Europe, it is this concept that must inspire us.
It is clearly this that the European Council meant by asking the Commission to examine the situation of ten applicant countries, with a view to democratic criteria, certainly, but also with regard to economic criteria such as their capacity for competition or mastery of the "acquis communautaire' .
Nevertheless, the study of the different countries, particularly from the point of view of economic criteria, led the Commission to make proposals which have given the impression that it was setting itself up in judgement by distinguishing two categories of countries amongst the applicants.
It is the reason why, based on the Commission's objective analysis, I repeat again that Parliament, playing fully its role, wishes to move on from this analysis by introducing a more political and more cultural judgement into the issue of enlargement, along with a longer term outlook.
Only a few days after its application for membership of NATO was turned down, Romania found out that she was not amongst the countries with which the Commission considered the European Union could open accession negotiations.
For this country of 23 million inhabitants, European by culture, by history, geography and now by democracy, it was a harsh blow.
On a geostrategic level, Romania plays an important role in the stability of the region, particularly in the numerous accords it has entered into recently with several of its neighbours.
Furthermore, a very large consensus exists amongst the Romanian people in favour of accession, and the efforts to reform and transform Romanian society achieved by the current government are worthy of being mentioned, as are also the truly remarkable sacrifices which the Romanian people accept with stoicism in order to introduce the necessary factors of change and modernization into their society.
Nobody knows the date they will join, but we must not today give the impression that the door to accession is closed.
We must offer Romania an outlook worthy of the idea that it is becoming one of us.
What gives the enlargement that significance is not just quantity, the number of countries applying for membership, but the process of democratic stabilization and cohesion it involves.
I hope and believe that the European Parliament will express itself clearly to that effect and will send a clear message to the Council along those lines.
The country is starting from a good basis for negotiations with a view to membership.
The political and democratic situation is solid and the economy is dynamic.
But what I want to emphasize and what I have directly observed in drafting the report on this country is the commitment and awareness of the leaders of Slovenia, the determination of the government and the parliament to pursue these objectives, as is also demonstrated by the preparation - I think it is the only country to have done this - of a strategic document which was presented this week, an important and binding document, setting out deadlines, stages and methods.
Slovenia can play an important political role for the European Union, filling a territorial gap, integrating that part of Europe politically, establishing new relations with neighbouring states, and providing positive stimulus for other entities created from the dissolution of former Yugoslavia.
Mr President, on behalf of this Parliament I have been able to deal intensively with Slovakia, one of the 11 candidate countries, over the past few months.
I would like to say many things about the general aspects of the Union's enlargement, but I will deal with only one issue, Slovakia.
Others have already said enough about all the other issues.
The future of a country and its population are at stake.
In Agenda 2000 the Commission expresses the opinion that Slovakia, or should we say the present government of Slovakia, does not fulfil one of the most important conditions for EU Membership, namely the establishment a stable, political democracy in which human rights and minorities are respected.
The European Parliament did not only pronounce judgment, it also tried directly and indirectly to influence the situation in Slovakia.
In June this year the joint parliamentary delegation even published recommendations on what measures Slovakia should take, in particular on a number of important democratic issues.
Should the Council or this Parliament opt for simultaneous negotiations with all candidates, then we do not think Slovakia should be included at the moment.
It is unacceptable that a government should treat the interests of a country in this way.
Both Parliament and the Council have several times expressed the view that the accession negotiations with Cyprus will start six months after the IGC.
As the Commission stated in Agenda 2000, Cyprus is economically and politically ready for Union membership.
He spoke of an accession fever in this Parliament, but I fear that this fever has not yet touched public opinion in our own countries.
Mr President, the discussions within the Council are currently moving in the same direction.
But the Commission and the Council also hope for positive signals from Ankara.
Whilst waiting, the intention of the Presidency is to propose to the Council that Turkey should have a place in the enlargement process and that a strategy for closer ties should be defined between Turkey and the European Union.
In fact, the incorporation of new members from the east and centre of the European continent should be seen in the same context as our relations with Russia, the United States and Canada.
A strengthening of our relations with Russia has been brought about through the partnership agreement which came into force on 1 December and of which the implementation and execution will be achieved through the high level meetings anticipated in this agreement.
Regarding links with our transatlantic partners, the United States and Canada, I would like to inform you that a summit is taking place tomorrow and the day after in Ottawa and Washington, during the course of which we will deepen our relations and strengthen dialogue on all questions of current concern, including enlargement of the European Union, with our transatlantic partners.
The Community must not become unbalanced through enlargement and we must at the same time strengthen our ties with our southern partners.
Finally, regarding political reforms and the financial framework, I note that these were questioned by no-one.
Solidarity between the fifteen former members, but also solidarity between the old and the new.
I am convinced, Mr President, that the European Parliament and the Council are on the same wavelength on this point.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement of the European Union to the CEECs and Cyprus is certainly one of the most important challenges for the future of the European institutions.
But to have two minutes in which to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on two such important reports, you will agree, I am sure, is very little.
The Committee on Agriculture has declared itself to be in favour of this enlargement, on condition that a European agricultural model which makes use of the space and development of the countryside is respected.
We would like to remind you that it is agriculture which moulded our European civilization, and that it goes back more than 2000 years.
I would like to remind you that, in the agricultural sector, the European Union lost 230, 000 jobs in 1996 and in the same year nearly 800, 000 farms disappeared.
Under the pretext of enlarging Europe eastward, which will need structural and not agricultural funds, and under the pretext of budgetary constraints, guidelines and other convergence criteria with, for good measure, a growth rate of 2.5 % in Member States and 4 % in the CEECs between the years 2000 and 2006.
We must therefore focus our attention on attempting to implement this political decision correctly, that is, on the ways in which enlargement is to take place in the smoothest and most effective way to ensure it achieves its objectives, which we have all outlined on various occasions.
No in-depth analysis is necessary for us to realize that if we accept in our midst a society and an economy which has not advanced to the point which will enable it to fulfil the conditions which accession entails, then there will be enormous problems for both.
We must not reach a point where enlargement takes place with a reallocation of funds in the context of the financial perspectives, as proposed for the year 2006, which would damage efforts to deepen the Union.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy I would like to point out, first, that enlargement is obviously our greatest challenge in the coming period.
We advocate that countries from central and eastern Europe are able to participate in the fifth framework programme.
Rightly, the Commission and Council President Poos pointed out that preparation and negotiations are part of the same process.
And everyone has pointed out that at the moment there is no single country we can admit, as no single country is ready.
But let us not only give an explanation of the rational factors needed to make such a choice, as the Commission did, but also let us look at the psychology.
They have interpreted what is happening at the moment, whether we like it or not, whether we think it is right or not, as dividing Europe for a second time.
But they live closer to Russia, and they have personally experienced it for 45 years.
I would also like to make a forcible and emotional plea to the Commissioner to find a solution which will include everyone, because we want to have an inclusive process; this will have to find expression in our strategy.
To down-value the redistributive aspect and function of the Community budget and underestimate the costs of enlargement for reasons connected with the present internal politics of one Member State or another would be not only a deplorable mistake but a near reductio ad absurdum of this process, which is decisive for the future of the European Union.
If the social dimensions, the social development of our new Europe is not driven forward purposefully or with the necessary sensitivity we are heading ever more certainly for new social conflicts and that is particularly the case in the border regions of the European Union.
On behalf of my group I therefore urge you to support this motion.
I will only say this: a reform of the structural policy, of the structural funds, is indispensable, with or without enlargement.
I would refer to the fact that the applicants for entry together and separately, apart from Cyprus, have had to live under conditions of real socialism, where there was no such thing as regional policy.
The priorities, as set out in the trans-European networks, should also apply to the new Member States.
It is also important for the Committee on Transport to stress that the rules on health and safety should apply in a transport market which does not recognize borders, which is transnational.
Then it might not be until 2020 or 2030 that the first country is able to join.
Finally, we should not underestimate the lack of capacity in these Member States, nor the lack of capacity amongst their citizens.
Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Youth, Culture, Education and the Media on the Oostlander, Barón Crespo and Colom i Naval reports, I welcome the fact that in Agenda 2000 the Commission describes enlargement as a challenge for the Union and as an opportunity vis-à-vis its security, economy, culture and its position in the world.
The cultural diversity of Europe will be a source of creativity and prosperity.
A clear sign of this is that the applicants for membership are already taking part in cultural and educational programmes and have a particular interest in the Community programmes Socrates, Leonardo, and Youth for Europe.
The basic principle, the culture and education are the key to the success of rapprochement strategies, has been recognized, and I therefore ask the EU institutions to accept our motion and also to deal with cultural and educational topics at the European Conference.
The Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs is to be congratulated on its approval of the point in the report which excludes the possibility of shifting economic resources dedicated to the developing world to aid new and future Member States.
The EU with its Member States is the world's largest provider of development aid.
We need a concept, and I cannot yet find one in Agenda 2000, of where and when these external border controls will be deployed.
We need a European Conference, which creates binding common procedures in the spheres of justice and internal security, and a reform of the Union which guarantees greater powers of decision-making in the spheres of justice and internal security.
Mr President, as spokesman for the Committee on Budgetary Control, I support a statement on key problems seen in relation to securing an effective and transparent administration in the countries of central and eastern Europe, both before and after accession to the Union.
The same applies in a lot of other areas, such as environment, infrastructure, safety of nuclear power, etcetera.
This points to a totally unreasonable preferential position and one which could contribute to increasing social and economic inequality.
The figures themselves cry out when it is proposed that ECU 70 per inhabitant per year be given in pre-accession support, while at the same time support per inhabitant in the new Member States will increase from ECU 92 to ECU 248.
There does not appear to be any consistency in the Commission's proposal, either politically, economically or in terms of need.
A simple reference to the report by Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Tsatsos would not have been sufficient.
Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has looked at this from a technical point of view because it is a very technical subject.
That will have a huge political impact eventually on the European Union.
Eventually, as I said, Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey will have a large interest too because the Black Sea is greatly polluted.
Poland and the Baltic states are important because of the overall size of the fleets and the social and economic dependency of the coastal regions.
This is all summed up very nicely in paragraphs 71 and 72 of the report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and I commend those paragraphs to the House.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgetary Control would like to applaud the efforts made by the Commission in putting forward the Agenda 2000 proposal.
Finally, effort in interconnection for it was good, it was necessary, that the greatest expenses which as a whole characterize the European Union - the common agricultural policy, the structural funds, the costs linked to enlargement - should be put into perspective in a single document.
In reality, and this directly concerns enlargement, in the enlargement you will not be spending amounts in the new states...
Ah, I see I have already spoken for five minutes.
Of course one can call the Commission's position realistic in not proposing a change to the budgetary procedure or any modification of the balance of own resources to make it more equitable.
For the Committee on Institutional Affairs, it is very clear that this is a short term view.
There is a problem with regard to resources because a 13 % reduction in structural funds for the 15 Member States has been announced.
If this trend continues for the new Member States, it is doubtful whether it will really be possible to finance the needs.
It will be no worse than the Committee on Budgets voting on this issue before the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Either the non-compulsory expenses thus transferred are requalified as compulsory expenses, or they keep their current qualification and Parliament will have to look into the expenditure which figures in the agricultural guideline, which will lead to difficult arbitration between its position and that of the Council.
It is clearly more difficult than proposing, all goods taken together, a reduction in general prices, and I would not be able to prompt you to refer to a Europe linking agriculture to its land by maintaining Community preference rather than a Europe where agriculture is linked to nothing but world prices.
We are about to engage in a historic process which in my opinion will either make or break the European Union.
However, if we get this process wrong, the European Union will at best become a bloated introverted structure incapable of making effective decisions and it could become one which will be in danger of losing any concept of a common vocation.
Quite simply the challenge which is facing us today is to make quite sure that we get it right and that enlargement benefits the European Union and does not undermine it.
We have to make sure that at the end of the process we have a European Union which is effective and efficient, built on democratic legitimacy, which respects the relationship between small and large states and which respects the principle of subsidiarity.
If the challenge of the 1980s was to complete the single market, the challenge of the 1990s to complete the single currency, the challenge at the turn of the century must be to create and make enlargement work for the benefit of the European Union.
Our political message here today must be simply this: yes, we believe in enlargement, we want it to go ahead and we are not going to renege on our historic commitment to the countries of central and eastern Europe.
Secondly, we believe this process should be an inclusive one, that all countries in central and eastern Europe and Cyprus are in the pipeline to European Union membership, although they may be at different stages of that pipeline.
Finally, our message must be that the European Conference gives us a major opportunity to create a European political space that will allow us, while waiting for these negotiations, to engage in a sensible structured political dialogue with the countries which wish to join the European Union in the shorter or the longer term.
The peaceful revolution in the east has its roots in the peace which it was the European Union's original task to create.
The conditions for this future task are improving to the extent that countries in central and eastern Europe are gaining membership and can thereby be given a role within the Union.
In the same way, the Union's other giant project, enlargement to the east, has already produced important results for us and for the applicant countries.
Several of the countries have a long way to go before they succeed in getting to the stage where they can become full members.
That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy is recommending that Parliament decide that a strengthened enlargement process and negotiations should be opened up with all countries with European Agreements who fulfil the basic democratic and political requirements.
Whatever happens, budget costs must not be allowed to cause us to lose the enormous gains, both economic and political, which enlargement to the east is going to bring.
With the enlargement to the new countries, Europe is entering a historic stage which will mark a turning point in the geopolitical evolution of our continent.
Today we are debating and deciding on an equally historic stage but perhaps the most important of all since the signing of the first treaties, in that it is born of the truest and most intrinsic vocation of the European Union, growth and progress for the peace and prosperity of the peoples of Europe.
The solution to these problems, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, certainly calls for an important effort, but if we want our enlargement process to be a responsible one - and I underline responsible - we have to take account of the fact that the Union's prospects must be shared by all, and by our citizens first and foremost.
In supporting the objectives of the enlargement, my political group will be equally vigilant and seriously committed to achieving all this in a spirit of harmony and prosperity for all.
Madam President, the enlargement of the Union is the best way to strengthen the freedom, security, peace and economic development of Europe.
The enlargement process includes all the applicant countries.
We already know that tomorrow Parliament is going to give its full support to negotiations for EU membership with countries which have been forced for a long time to cower in the shadow of the Iron Curtain and under the pressure of Soviet bayonets.
Madam President, everyone understands the considerable impact of the process of enlargement of the European Union on the countries of east and central Europe.
If, on the other hand, the intention of Europe is to resolutely commit itself to planetary economic war, enlargement risks being translated into draconian constraints for applicant countries, into a growth in the inequality of development between privileged and underprivileged regions, into the revision downwards of the gains of the common agricultural policy and structural funds, into an encouragement of competition between workers, into a blackmail for relocation.
Who could expect any good from an enlargement of the number of workers in the Union, if this enlargement is designed to respond to the expectations of those who, like the chairman of Siemens, now declare that what interests them in the CEECs is the fact that there, for an equally qualified person, one hour's work costs DM 4.5, as opposed to DM 45 in Germany.
Conversely, what benefit to their daily life can the populations of the CEECs expect from the strict application of the current rules of the Union on countries whose gross domestic product per capita is less than half or three quarters that of our states.
The Commission's directions, to be submitted to the European Council of 12 and 13 December next, fall more within the second than the first alternative that I have just summarized.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the impending enlargement presents the European Union with its most important challenge since its foundation.
It thereby fulfils its central goal, to create a united Europe and can simultaneously learn the lessons from both recent history and from the global challenges of our age, that is the danger of warlike disputes, ecological destruction, dealing with poverty and discrimination by means of the ever closer economic and political integration of Europe.
Mistakes in the enlargement process would not only obstruct development in central and eastern Europe but also expose the existing structure to a credibility crisis of considerable proportions, and, what is more, in the matter of financial requirements.
This policy of the German government lodged in the consciousness of the people as painful arrogance towards Germany's economic power, as a missed chance for reforms and consequently as the absence of any visionary consideration.
This policy was made at the expense of future generations, has contributed to considerable new gulfs between the people of West and East Germany and shares responsibility for the barrier to reform in Germany which is bewailed on all sides by our partners in Europe.
Let us be honest in our analysis and more logical in our proposals.
The enormous transformation processes created under difficult conditions by our neighbours in central and eastern Europe since the historic turning point of 1989 should not be answered by a simple call for protection of rights of possession on our part.
A little more conservatism in the calculations would not have gone amiss.
Basically the Commission is not developing any agricultural policy at all for the applicant states, merely relying on the beneficial effects of the world market and thus accepting to some extent a second class membership in the EU, whereas the present recipients of agricultural subsidies remain to a large extent unscathed.
The cohesion fund is to remain untouched, but how can that be justified to the new Member States, who after all also want to become members of the single currency?
It would be logical either to extend the fund to those countries which in the foreseeable future will meet the criteria for monetary union or to cancel it completely as we recommend.
The tortuous efforts towards the necessary concentration of resources remain stuck in the blocks.
What is even worse is the fact that after the first planned wave of entries the actual new Member States are to participate by up to 28 % in the structural funds, whereas the remaining candidates will receive only ECU 3 billion.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in July the Commission presented the substance of two grand scenarios to us: one restricting the number of countries making up the first enlargement train to six, and the other setting the 1.27 % limit, that is to that maximum which must already be in force for the fifteen Member States to ensure that cohesion, the possibility of making the internal market practicable, positive and useful, without accentuating differences which have barely been flagged up, and which by some a miracle should apply to an enlargement to eighteen, twenty or twenty-five countries.
Tomorrow the European Parliament will again debate the scenario as regards the six countries, selecting or proposing another route which, of course, will also be that of the European Council of Luxembourg.
We think it does, and that is why we will vote with conviction for the Colom i Naval report, with some important amendments which need to be passed tomorrow, because this can be the message which accompanies the other report and which will enable you - I fervently hope so - to go to the Luxembourg European Council with a revised blueprint and perhaps - if I may say so - with a little more ambition as regards a noble and important objective: making the enlargement the genuine success we all hope it will be.
I have furthermore set out the reasons in a minority opinion presented pursuant to Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure, a minority opinion of which the principle was questioned before fortunately being accepted as an addendum to the report.
The Committee on Budgets has, in effect, adopted an ideological position on the principal questions raised by the future financing of the European Union, when it should have shown realism and prudence.
An ideological position regarding the duration of the financial perspective, by anticipating three scenarios in which this perspective would have to be automatically revised, while the European Union needs long term financial stability.
This theoretical ceiling, which clearly does not have to be spent, contrary to what is often heard here, is established at 1.15 % in the draft budget for 1998, which from now until the year 2006 leaves a considerable margin of 0.12 % of the European Union's GNP, which itself is increasing every year.
It is for the Member States, in effect, to fund the European Union's budget, as they would for any other international organization, and the Commission furthermore reminded us that the contributions of each state are moving ever closer towards their respective wealth.
An ideological position, finally, in the report regarding sectoral considerations, when it accepts the proposals for reform of the common agricultural policy and structural policy contained in the Agenda 2000 report, without systematically examining the merits of the different Community policies as a whole.
We know very well that the real aim of the Committee on Budgets, now as before, is to change the balance between compulsory expenditure and non-compulsory expenditure.
My group, which is in favour of retaining the ceiling at 1.27 %, therefore considers that in order to make possible the essential enlargement towards the east, the European Union must accept the budget framework as it stands, must call for intergovernmental cooperation and restrict itself to the development of a limited number of those common policies which are the most effective, in accordance with the famous principle of subsidiarity.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the coordinated European Right, of my colleagues in the National Front and the Vlaams block, I will express an opinion on the enlargement project underway in the European Union.
With regard to Turkey, we consider that this great state has a distinguished role to play due to its geographic location, that of a bridge between Europe and Asia, and not one member of the Union amongst others.
In my country, in France, nearly ten million people, supporters of the National Front and their families, are denied parliamentary representation, denied on a daily basis the right to freedom of assembly, harassed, illegally prevented from standing in workplace elections, persecuted in their profession, in their free time, in their most fundamental rights, and their position is a great deal more worrying than that of the minorities you talk about.
Not a Europe of the Maastricht Treaty, bureaucratic, specializing in taxes, ruinous, a new Leviathan, which aims to regulate all aspects of the political, economic, social and cultural life of hundreds of millions of Europeans.
Madam President, thank you very much indeed and I hope that my contribution will be somewhat more constructive than the previous one.
Could I say that I warmly support the broad thrust of the Agenda 2000 document.
I believe that enlargement is an historic opportunity for the European Union and we should not shy away from the challenges which are presented to us.
Could I also say that in particular I warmly support the fact that the Commission, very realistically, says that the own resources ceiling should stay at 1.27 % of Community GNP.
More specifically, with regard to the references to economic and social cohension, I think the maintenance of the 0.46 % of allocations for cohesion policies is something which should command a consensus amongst all Member States.
Similarly, I note what he said about the cohesion fund and its continuation and what he said about the new objective 1 which is outlined in the document.
Firstly, I would like to say with regard to the proposals for the new objective 2 that we need far more clarity from the Commission with regard to this new objective.
I also hope that a constructive dialogue between the Regional Policy Committee and the Commission will continue in the future.
Madam President, basically everything has been said in the debate.
We all wish that at the end of a process eleven eastern European states and Cyprus will be members of the European Union, and we know that not all will enter at the same point in time.
What I found lacking in the debate is a reference to the fact that the European Council will set in motion a process in the course of which we must find the answers to three questions.
The second question is how expensive may Europe become?
All that is true.
But we must also know more clearly than hitherto that there are limits to the loads which can be borne by the Member States and by the population of the Member States.
I say to everyone in advance: if it is a question of making sacrifices in the sphere of agricultural policy, if it is a question of making sacrifices in the sphere of the structural funds then all the Member States and all our colleagues from the corresponding Member States here will speak a completely different language than that being used in many contributions to today's debate!
Our situation is much more difficult.
We must ensure that they can join us and at the same time ensure that what we have achieved in the past 40 years is preserved.
To combine both things is a much more difficult process than just concentrating on entry.
Our generation of politicians will have to develop the courage and foresight to give the whole continent, for the first time in a thousand years, an organization of peace and cooperation.
It is precisely because Slovakia is not by our standards a democratic state that it would be utterly wrong to open negotiations with Slovakia.
We have generated a great deal of energy but I suspect that history may show that the details of the debate are less important than its educational effect.
By their efforts they have inserted themselves into the political reality of the European Union.
On 17 November the Commissioner will recall that my committee voted a triple response, what we have come to know as the Russian dolls approach to enlargement strategy.
I think it would be a mistake if we regarded our discussions here tonight as the end of our discussions of enlargement - they are hardly even the end of the beginning.
In my remaining seconds I would like to warn anyone who is listening against the dangers of seeking to take hostages in this process that will stretch out in the years ahead.
I believe in December 1997 we have made a good start, even if I suspect that the conversation will stretch many years ahead of us.
Madam President, I certainly will be here for the rest of the debate tonight and will also listen very carefully to the other speakers.
The prime approach which we have in common is that we all feel very motivated, both Parliament and Commission, to make absolutely clear to the candidate countries that they are all part and parcel of the same process and that nobody is left out.
The difference between us may be how we want to make that clear.
To be very frank, when I look at the various amendments such as Nos 12 and 101, I am afraid there is a risk of a certain ambiguity towards those countries which we recommend to continue their preparations as if they were fully entitled to start the negotiations while recognizing that they are actually not sufficiently prepared.
Finally on this point, when I read those amendments, what strikes me very much is that there is mention on the one hand of the accession process and on the other hand negotiations.
When you make a recommendation to the Council for an official launch of the enlargement process which implies negotiations for those who are fit for it and preparations for the others, with the whole of the pre-accession strategy attached to it including the partnerships, in which the Council also is going to be involved because it wants to co-decide with us on the priorities to be set, then the signal in the direction of all candidates would be one of being part and parcel, all without exception, of an all-inclusive process.
Whereas now I fear that we are going to have a debate between the Member States in Luxembourg and ambiguity will come out of it as a result.
I obviously respect that the Parliament says that we have to look at this process and at the solutions that we are proposing in a political way.
Again, if we have a difference of opinion there then I hope it is more a difference in wording than substance and certainly not a difference in political approach.
My contribution may appear to be narrowly focused in European terms.
I merely wish to look at enlargement and how it might affect my country and my constituency of Connaught Ulster which is on the periphery of the Union.
I hope this will help to assuage some of the concerns of my own country and my own constituency regarding the future allocation of funding to Ireland.
Regions within Ireland, such as the western seaboard and the border counties will therefore continue to merit the designation of objective 1 status in accordance with the average standard of living in these areas.
In other words, the situation may well arise whereby the region of the north of Ireland and the west will secure greater European monies post-1999 by being granted objective 1 status, while other areas in Ireland will lose objective 1 status due to enhanced prosperity.
I wish to put down a marker at this stage.
It is important that any agreement on concentration - in particular geographical concentration - should have clearly linked to it a firm commitment to adequate transitional arrangements as envisaged by the Commission.
But there are regions that need more than merely transitional arrangements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Commission's proposed financial framework for the period from 2000 to 2006, contained in the document commonly known as Agenda 2000, was submitted in July, it was clear to us that the laissez-faire attitude and general inadequacy of that document was incompatible with the political and socio-economic challenges facing a Union which could be enlarged to embrace an almost indeterminate number of new Member States in the course of that period.
Apart from being a document which in certain respects contains omissions or incorrect data and figures, making it difficult or indeed impossible to make a comparative study, the Commission's proposal on new financial perspectives does not represent an accurate and rigorous estimate of the costs that will inevitably arise from the new needs enlargement will bring with it.
The Commission's proposal keeps the same limit on internal resources, without taking into account the conditionality and the economic and social consequences of economic and monetary union.
In the same way, it makes no allowance for the need to maintain and develop efforts to achieve the minimum acceptable levels for real internal cohesion, whether it be the level that the existing Member States are aiming at or the level that is increasingly imposing enlargement on countries which generally represent a third of the per capita gross domestic product of the fifteen-State European Union.
Contrary to the proposals in Agenda 2000, that conditionality, and those old and new needs, call for the clear and unequivocal strengthening of the resources and instruments designed to bring about economic and social cohesion, for which no provision whatever is made in the Commission's proposal.
The reforms suggested by the Commission in the document do not, therefore, make it their central objective to achieve any kind of cohesion in an enlarged Union.
The inclusion of the alteration concerning the future of the cohesion fund does certainly contribute to clarifying it, while at the same time we hope this House will reject any alterations which would neutralize the significance of the report completely or at any rate render it completely toothless and inconsequential.
Another key question is whether the new Member States will have a say in the EU's future or not.
Mr President, both the Commission and the rapporteurs stress that enlargement of the Union should go hand in hand with a further intensification of the European integration process.
The problems this model presents with regard to manageability, legitimacy of the European Administration and democratic control are being ignored.
The fact, that for the time being, Slovakia is excluded from the entry negotiations, seems right to us.
Mr President, long term financial planning must also take into particular account the border regions along the present-day external EU frontiers.
Another essential point which in connection with the planned reforms must not be allowed to drop is the preservation of the rural Alpine area.
Farmers in the Alpine valleys form the backbone of the economic and cultural life of large areas in some Member States, including above all Austria.
Mr President, I want to speak to the Colom report, not the others.
At one time Mr Spencer referred to us as mere bean counters.
One of the answers we were looking for in the previous debate was what price were we prepared to pay for enlargement.
That seems to give the impression that we are against enlargement when we are not.
The members of the Committee on Budgets are fully supportive of enlargement but at the same time, as I said, we are pragmatic about what will be needed.
However, that cost still has to be borne by the taxpayers and by the Member States.
We should not be trying to implement structural or agricultural policy or any other type of policy through this report.
It will be read in depth by the Council and by the Commission and they will know exactly Parliament's starting point when it comes to getting an agreement on a future financial perspective.
We have to say loud and clear, as it says in the explanatory statement, that there will be no financial perspective without an interinstitutional agreement.
A financial perspective which is adopted unilaterally by the Council would in no way be binding on the European Parliament and that would not be in anyone's interest.
The Colom report shows the necessity for the Council and Parliament to get an interinstitutional agreement and an agreement on a financial perspective.
Therefore, it is easier for us to remember what it means to achieve two aspirations: membership of the European Union, and the consolidation of a system of democratic liberties.
So let us allow each country to determine its own accession timetable, according to its own efforts.
Commissioner van den Broek said that to allow multilateral negotiation could provoke frustration in the candidate countries.
Tomorrow this Parliament is going to make an important statement about the problems which an inadequate financial framework could cause in relation to enlargement, the consolidation of the internal market, economic and monetary union and, above all, cohesion, which is a real keystone in the building of Europe.
However, this consensus should not hide the fact that Agenda 2000 contains underlying problems.
Due to our economic success in recent years, Ireland is set to reach the threshold of 75 % of average per capita GDP.
It is vital therefore that any financial adjustment must be gradual and carefully planned.
Additionally, there are regions within Ireland, including the midland region, that still fall well below the EU average in terms of employment and economic growth.
It is vital that these regions continue to retain objective 1 status if they are to achieve the same level of growth as other regions within the European Union.
The common agricultural policy has served Ireland well over the years and while we accept that it is in our interest that European agriculture becomes more competitive on the world market, there are very legitimate concerns about the effects of future CAP reform.
Reform must take place in such a way that it ensures that the interests of all Member States are taken into account in a balanced manner and above all else, that the interests of farmers and rural communities are fully respected.
Most importantly and in conclusion, we must be ensured guaranteed compensation for any reduction in market support.
By the need to meet the Maastricht criteria with the EMU project, we are offering unprecedented unity for present members, that is true, but we are actually threatening the integration of new members because of the financial stringency that is being introduced across the continent.
So, yes, keeping within 1.27 % must be kept a firm target but at the death it must not become an unyielding barrier that prevents enlargement.
To me there must be no discrimination between Turkey and the other states that are trying to accede to the Union.
Mr President, the proposals before us this evening and for the last number of months will ultimately change dramatically the European Union we have known and it will open up vast opportunities in the years, and indeed the decades, that lie ahead.
I am extremely concerned at the financial implications of enlargement and the effect this will have on the existing regions within the European Union, the future of the common agricultural policy and the very existence of our family farm structure.
I understand these proposals will change and develop over the next two or three years but I certainly believe that we require firmer proposals from the Commission on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
There must be wider consultation before we go further down this unknown route.
Could I make it very clear, Mr President, while I am totally in favour of enlargement in principle, that I feel there are those who want to achieve this goal without giving the real recognition that is required to the major problems that enlargement will create for the existing Member States.
That is a challenge that beholds us all.
Mr President, in this Parliament I represent the Northern League for the independence of Padania, a nation and people steeped in authentic history, today engaged in a struggle for freedom against the Roman centralism of the Italian Government.
We are convinced that the Union has to fight two important battles simultaneously: the first task is to create a Europe with democratic instruments, that is, with a Parliament able to legislate freely, a Parliament based on the peoples, the lifeblood of democracy, before the leaders of the nation states succeed in their project of cancelling out the people and consigning Europe to American globalization.
The second battle is to enlarge western Europe to the countries of eastern Europe, so as to have a state reality not only democratic, that is, based on the peoples, but in a position to block the bi-polar world reality project which would contrast with the spirit of peace and development, the development of the whole world.
Padania and its constituent parliament therefore welcome the new member countries today and hope that together we will build the real Europe of the peoples and not the Europe of the merchants.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to give an opinion today on Agenda 2000 is to give an opinion on the future geography of our Union, for we today have the opportunity of reuniting our continent.
After the fall of the Berlin wall we must define our political project, and know where our border lies.
In fact, this enlargement is not really an enlargement, it is more a conclusion, with one or two exceptions, which requires us to consider it as a global package.
For that, two conditions are necessary.
Firstly, that we give full meaning to the European Conference, that it caters for us as fifteen plus twelve, that is, including Turkey, and that within it we may discuss all subjects, including economic cooperation, projects of common interest, particularly everything regarding infrastructure networks on a European scale and, to give but a few examples, the question of nuclear safety.
The second condition is that the negotiations commence as soon as possible, I would even say the very day it becomes possible, for each of the other applicant countries, beyond the Commission's proposal, without waiting for the first round of negotiations to be concluded.
But to enlarge our Union is also to wonder about the impact of enlargement.
They tell us 1.27 %, fine, but is it reasonable?
Let us recall, for example, the conditions of enlargement to include Spain and Portugal.
And I mean institutional reform and not simply a rearrangement of the sense of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Of course, balance, the composition of the Commission, increase in the qualified majority, in codecision.
But also the question of the way of working out article N, and also the question of democratic control of EMU.
Finally, and I will finish on this point, Mr President, third precondition, we must define our political project: the "acquis communautaire' is also a project in the area of defence.
Another point that is fully supported is the need for adequate institutional reforms, which are already indispensable today and will be even more so in such an enlarged Europe.
In this respect the institutional framework resulting from the Treaty of Amsterdam delivers us a Europe with a paralyzed decision-making capacity, increasingly resembling a huge market and less and less like the Europe our fathers wanted and this Parliament hoped for.
Coming to the financial aspects of the enlargement, it has to be stressed that the restrictive policy of budgetary improvement, pursued by member countries with a view to monetary union, makes the financially painless achievement of a political operation as extensive as the enlargement an absurd idea.
So to guarantee solidarity between regions of Europe and genuine balance in their development, we need to be thinking, as of now, from the current design stage for the new structural funds, about policies and instruments which will avert the risk, in the early years of the new millennium, of the great majority of currently disadvantaged regions of the Union ending up excluded from the cohesion policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen survivors of the "nutritional decimation' , along with the achievement of the single currency, the enlargement of the European Union to ten new countries is for Europe the major issue of the end of the 20th Century, that of the advent of a great Europe.
Enlargement, a process which is going to be undertaken in a difficult period of austerity, unemployment and also doubts, is an historic opportunity, but also a true challenge.
Already, they can be heard stating that whatever the cost of enlargement, the ceiling of 1.27 % of GNP cannot be transgressed and must remain as it is.
In other words, it is for us to define the new financial framework within the context and objective of stabilization of Community expenditure, which can be translated as: in line with the balancing of national budgets.
Certain delegations within the Council even theoretically qualify any debate on a possible increase in the GNP ceiling.
An enlargement of the unbearable conditions of agriculture would be unacceptable.
Whoever says enlargement says financial framework appropriate to enlargement, and this financial framework, as the rapporteur Joan Colom i Naval clearly highlighted, remains to be built.
Not all of the uncertainties have been raised on the conditions for the future financing of the European Union, far from it, and this is the true keystone of the envisaged reforms.
Yes, enlargement must be a factor in the development of the European Union.
Yes, enlargement must be a factor in institutional progress, but enlargement must be just as much about avoiding the dismantling of existing policies, and even be about consolidating them.
Enlargement of the European Union must mean the deepening of the policies of the European Union.
And the GNP own resources ceiling will need to be considered according to the financial needs of the Union, in accordance with its objectives.
But in no case can our group accept that the enlargement should serve as a pretext for an automatic revision of the financial perspective or of an uncontrolled explosion of the Community's own resources.
And I think that this should be an excellent occasion for us to reflect on how we must participate in the development, but also in the balancing, of the budget.
The path towards a successful enlargement is a difficult one and the achievement of the financial aspect is an essential factor.
Mr President, the eastward enlargement project is without doubt of historic significance.
With Agenda 2000 the Commission presented a paper designed to show the way to an enlarged Union.
Austria is like no other country in the Union, surrounded by potential candidates for entry.
So it will probably feel the effects of the eastward enlargement of the EU more directly and more sensitively than many other Member States.
Let us give Europe the time to grow together!
Because today we are still discussing the fairly abstract structures we can also quite quickly come to agreements and understandings on matters.
There are moreover some others - I come from this country too - who say that they want to pay less for the cake in future.
Not because the potatoes in Poland were of poorer quality but because we subsidize them with 50 pfennigs per mark or with half an ECU per ECU, which the Poles, however, are actually in a position to subsidize 15 %.
When I hear that the Irish need money, when I hear that the objective 1 areas need money, when I look at my own Federal States in the Federal Republic of Germany, which on Friday in the Federal Parliament made the decision that everything in our structural policy must remain unchanged, then I tell you that that is impossible!
But we need them even more for enlargement, for it is absolutely unrealistic to accept Member States which have a current per capita GNP on average 31 % of the Community GNP!
I once said in a discussion in the House of Lords in Great Britain that if we try to bring the two curves of 2.5 % growth in the Community and 4 % growth in the central European countries to a single point - and there we see moreover how far apart these countries are - then Slovenia needs fourteen years to reach the average GNP of the Community, Poland well over thirty and Romania even over fifty.
The countries are so very different and therefore to create the impression that one can pack up large parcels here and accept everybody quickly has something to do with heresy and absolutely nothing to do with politics!
Here I entirely agree with what Klaus Hänsch said today.
The enlargement of the European Union is part of the basic idea of integration, it is a building principle of the Community and a historic necessity.
Austria, which will take over the EU Presidency in the second half of 1998, has, by virtue of its geopolitical situation and its historical ties with central Europe, an interest in seeing that its neighbour countries do not languish in a political noman's-land and lock into the economic standards of the west.
For Austria in particular, which has the longest borders with applicant countries, support for the border regions is important in order to absorb the effects of structural adaptation problems and transition periods for freedom of movement in personal traffic, transition periods in agriculture, as was the case in Portugal and Spain.
I am very much in favour of a limit of 1.27 % of the gross national product, for the eastward enlargement must be conceived as an all-European project.
This should not lead to the situation where we block out problem cases like Slovakia but offer an incentive so that these countries develop in the direction of democracy, human rights and the protection of minorities.
No country should feel that it is excluded from the enlargement process.
The enlargement process must lead to the export of security and not the import of insecurity!
It is unfortunate that objective 6, which was meant for the cold and sparsely-inhabited regions, should be just a component of objective 1, because the objective 1 criteria do not take into account the special problems of the objective 6 regions.
I nevertheless support the Agenda 2000 approach, that is to say, that membership costs do not increase and that negotiations will start in the way prescribed by the Commission.
Mr President, Mr Oostlander's report is clear on one point: all countries applying for accession to the European Union must be democratic.
Ladies and gentlemen, 150, 000 French-speaking Belgians with less rights than the Hungarians in Slovakia and no more rights than the Russians in Latvia live only a few kilometres away from our Parliament.
The Commission's forecast on spending, and to which it adheres at 1.27 %, is extremely theoretical speculation.
If I look at the present political situation in the Council, I am extremely doubtful that the Commission will be able to stick to this time frame.
The impression I have at the moment - and Mr Samland has in fact already said this - is that we seem to be more engaged in distributing money among the fifteen existing Member States than in an enlargement process.
When the discussion goes the way it does in this debate, with the Irish wanting their money, the Portuguese wanting their money, and the Spaniards wanting their money, then at some point the moment will have to come when we find ourselves in a political crisis in this Community, with the risk that the candidates for enlargement, which should be able to benefit from the relationship with the European Union on time, will end up being the victims.
Hence my warning.
I have already said that I think that the discussion on net contribution is a mistaken one, but I have to acknowledge that it has become a political problem in a number of our Member States, and I think it is therefore necessary to arrive at a balanced distribution of the budget, whereby criteria other than the typical net contribution discussion are applied, whereas other criteria are needed.
It is very interesting that we are now faced with a more or less concealed fight over distribution within the European Union which very much reminds me of what we have already discussed at the beginning of the 1980s.
We must set in motion a process which offers them objective chances of becoming members of the European Union.
This is of extraordinary significance, for when the first country comes in much later than it would have been possible then this means falling hopes for those countries which would come in later in any case.
Enlargement must have opportunities for transition so that it does not end up in a conflict between the applicant countries and the present day Member States of the European Union.
Also the new border of the European Union means that we must build bridges to those countries who in the long term or in the foreseeable future will not get into the European Union and if in building bridges we lose sight of the Ukraine and Russia then we shall also be making a mistake.
First, as Elmar Brok has just said, it would really be a scandal if a country which already meets the criteria and a Member State of the European Union imposes a veto until its candidate for entry is ready.
Important historical processes like the enlargement to the countries of central and eastern Europe and the achievement of economic and monetary union, which are now being initiated, will reach their culmination, in terms of results and consequences, actually within the timespan covered by the financial perspectives and paradoxically, for the first time, notwithstanding the importance of such changes, we are faced with a political context which is not open to the prospect of increasing the financial resources of the Union.
This faces us with the need to be realistic and effective with regard to the range of the objectives set by Agenda 2000, objectives which involve not only the enlargement but all the policies the Union will pursue.
Left out of consideration from the ceiling is the actual system of own resources which ought to be the subject of serious rethinking and reform to bring them more into line with the wealth and prosperity of the citizens and more transparent in their eyes.
The European Parliament must make it clear that we will not give our assent to any accession unless and until there is fundamental institutional reform.
While we maintain this pressure on governments, we should in parallel open negotiations simultaneously with all applicant states with the exception of Slovakia.
We would indicate that we want them to join as soon as possible and as soon as they fulfil the necessary conditions.
The Commission's strategy is connected with the fact that its watchwords are something other than peace and stability.
Only through an equal cooperation with the applicant countries will we be able to secure popular backing for the EU, and without that the project will collapse.
All aspects of this historic undertaking have been analysed from every angle in a process which is, by definition, in parallel with, and bound up with, the deepening, strengthening and reinforcing of the European Union in its present form.
With the Copenhagen decisions and criteria, in accordance with the specific demands of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and following the lengthy pre-accession processes of the structured dialogue in the context of European association agreements, we are now on the threshold of the final decision concerning the implementation of this policy with the onset of accession negotiations.
The ten applicant countries have thrown themselves with determination into the long and difficult fight for rapprochement.
Cyprus is surely a completely separate case.
Unfortunately, within this overall picture, Turkey has no place.
Mr President, I would like to make three remarks on this debate which essentially revolves around enlargement.
Today we are discussing the implications of this response which, we have decided, and the others are waiting for our answers and above all for us to display our will to give this answer.
Poland has always been crushed between its powerful neighbours.
Mr President, I would like to support the critical comments contained in Mr Colom i Naval's report.
It tries to show us that enlargement can take place without much expense, or more precisely, without Member States having to pay more.
The Commission wanted to pre-empt the desire, or more precisely the lack of desire, of the Council, instead of making proposals based on consideration of the realities.
And it is galling to note that, whilst after Amsterdam we were requesting institutional strengthening as a precondition of enlargement, the thinking on enlargement today shows us the current insufficiencies of one of the institutions of our Union, the Commission, which is abandoning its previously dynamic role in order to become a planning committee of the Council.
Mr President, the end of communism and the division of Europe have opened the way to a change in the very nature of the European Union, which can now include all European peoples and states.
This is the historic change enlargement represents.
The Union and its Member States must therefore be capable of adopting enlargement as a political objective which is essential to the future of peace and democracy in Europe.
It is a case of supporting the consolidation of democracy and human rights and also a sustainable transition to the market economy, making allowance for the noble aim of resolving as quickly as possible the serious social crisis into which undisciplined liberalism has plunged nearly all the countries which have emerged from Communism.
For a country like Portugal, whose democratic consolidation and economic development has benefitted so greatly from joining the Community, there can be no doubting our support for the central and eastern European countries' applications for membership, in addition to those of the other candidates.
So I reject any internal institutional, financial or other strategy of the present Member States which involves taking applicant countries hostage.
This great historic design of enlargement therefore renders politically and morally illegitimate any attempt to rank the candidate countries, as the Commission has tried to do in the famous five plus one proposal.
I also reject any attempt to exclude Turkey for cultural or religious reasons, overlooking Turkey's European history and the decisive contribution her membership would make to peace and unity in Europe, provided the democratic requirements are fulfilled.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from an economic point of view Slovakia is not one of the strongest applicant countries.
The high economic per capita growth, the fall in the unemployment rate, the inflation rate and the foreign debt, which compared to other countries is low, are impressive elements in this.
On the other hand the Slovakian administration and the Parliament are in the process of adapting the relevant legislative areas quickly to the Community law of possession.
All in all, however, we find that the Slovakian government does not meet all the political criteria of Copenhagen and great efforts on the part of the Government and in particular of the Prime Minister are still needed to achieve more democratic practice and constitutionality in order to be given a place in the group of candidates to be taken seriously.
Mr President, I welcome the great role that Parliament has in the process of Agenda 2000.
With regard to Agenda 2000, it has been said over and over this afternoon that the Commission is proposing a whole new financial perspective for the period under review.
It covers the entire broad range of EU policies and assumes that expansion towards the east will take place over the next ten years.
We all know that the European Union will face its greatest challenges over this period.
We have to incorporate anything up to ten additional Member States.
As you probably know, I was the rapporteur for Parliament on Malta's accession and I hope that at some stage it comes on board.
Another challenge we shall have to take into account is another round of international trade negotiations.
With regard to the financial perspective, the present one which runs from 1993 to 1999 was accompanied by an increase in the EU budget ceiling to 1.27 % of EU GNP.
The structural funds have been very effective in poorer areas and peripheral regions in helping Ireland to reach the average standard of living of the richer regions of the Union.
Ireland has benefited enormously over the past ten years and we have made very good use of our structural funds.
Our standard of living has now reached the EU average for the first time ever.
Even though structural funding represents an everdecreasing factor in our economic prosperity in Ireland, no country could go through a drastic cutting away of investment without undergoing enormous internal disruption.
Mr President, first of I all I should like to say that I agree completely with the sentiments and the concerns expressed by my colleague John Cushnahan.
I too am concerned about diluting and weakening the European Union through too quick enlargement, although I am encouraged by progress towards monetary union..
I want to address the Colom i Naval report and say that ever since the Berlin Wall came down there has been a remarkable consensus in favour of admitting the countries of eastern Europe.
This consensus applied not only in the institutions and the national governments but with the EU public as well.
It is extremely difficult to project how the economies of the 15 members will go, how the cost of the CAP will go, how the applicant countries will go over the next five to eight years.
But, within that limit of 1.27 % it is very difficult to see adequate resources being provided to ensure that this enlargement will satisfy the applicants and their citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first a brief word about Mr Schwaiger who spoke just before about Slovakia.
I also hope that the Member States ultimately come to similar conclusions in Luxembourg.
Once again we are shirking a very sensitive question, which is in this case not so much budgetary as political.
In the context of Agenda 2000 we did not ask ourselves this question.
To reduce it to a common denominator: anyone who does not want to reform the agricultural and structural policy, anyone who does not then at the same time want to pay more, that person cannot or will not enlarge.
It would be a dangerous mistake, for the sake of economic interests or even strategic considerations, to devalue respect for human rights or to underestimate the coercive, aggressive policy of certain states towards Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, the European Union is embarking upon one of its most historically important projects since its inception; enlargement to eastern and central Europe, taking in the island of Cyprus.
EU membership will help underpin democracy, peace and prosperity in central and eastern Europe.
Much needs to be done, as has been said this evening, by both the applicant countries to prepare for membership and the EU itself so that its policies and institutions are reformed in order to meet the challenges of enlargement.
The Commission is also right in its report, Agenda 2000, to point out that some countries are further down the road to accession than others.
Finally, I welcome the proposal to call a European Conference in London next February, where all applicant countries can come and discuss matters of concern to all Europeans, including the common foreign and security policy, justice and home affairs.
Mr President and Mr Commissioner, enlargement must succeed for all our sakes.
Mr President, drafting this report has proved to be a difficult job.
The report is Parliament's message to the Luxembourg summit on how to proceed in this historical enlargement process.
The report approves, albeit in unclear terms, the marching order proposed by the Commission, making sure it includes all applicant countries in the process.
Parliament desired responsibility for, and a clear role in, the enlargement process, but now it appears that it cannot take a position on the form of negotiations nor on questions of funding.
The Commission is seeking, through its own proposal, a dynamic enlargement process, which will not be achieved through the so-called regatta formula.
Estonia's inclusion on the Commission's five plus one list will not only be a step in the direction for Latvia and Lithuania, but for the Union's whole northern aspect.
The criteria for economic and monetary union have caused such phenomena already amongst ourselves.
You could say that NATO's spread eastward is seen in Russia as a gift to the Communists.
Mr President, I would like towards the end of our debate, which has quantitatively certainly been extensive but also qualitatively appropriate to the subject, to try, both for the relationship of the European Union with Latvia and also for its neighbour states Estonia and Lithuania, in other words for the relationship of the European Union with the Baltic states at least to indicate a greater connection in time and space.
One of the topical and more particularly future basic questions of European policy will be the form of relationship between the European Union and the Russian Federation.
It is clearly in the interests of the European Union that this relationship should be constructive and stability - orientated.
The next and most important condition for this is the possibility of being able to join the European Union.
Accession strategy should not be characterized only by the current framework conditions but also by future factors which are deliberately influenced and formed by us.
Mr President, the enlargement of the EU will be an historic decision.
It is important to encourage this will, not least among the applicant countries.
What we gain by such a solution is that we do not rule out certain countries in advance, but encourage them to continue their ambitious efforts to be ready for membership.
My first concern - and I come from a blacksmith's forge in Austria - about the opening up of the east was, what does the future hold for us?
I went over to these countries and saw for myself the opportunities which exist there.
I believe we must place these opportunities which this eastward enlargement gives us at the centre of our policy, although we must also not forget the risks.
In particular, security considerations such as Schengen, nuclear safety, are also absolutely central issues for us and I believe that in future we shall also in this sphere still have a great deal to do.
Mr President, I found this a lengthy and interesting debate, and I have already trespassed on your generosity to intervene twice, so I will be brief, and thank the speakers for the important interventions which we have been able to hear today, which covered a large part of what the Commission together with the proposals on EMU regards as one of its most important proposals during this term of office.
Now, I believe that we do not have to or are able to draw any conclusions from this in view of the fact that the European Commission will also have to make further proposals.
But it is in any case good to be able to ascertain that today the uncertainty which still exists about certain sections of the internal policy reforms, and their financial consequences, as well as about the financing of enlargement in its totality, evidently give no cause for the overwhelming majority of this House to exercise restraint with regard to starting the further enlargement process.
The debate is closed.
