Mr Falconer quite properly asked for the opportunity to state his intention before every vote in which he did not participate.
If this system is to work, it has to be seen to be working properly and with the agreement of all the Vice-Presidents.
I refer to the first paragraph of page 12.
Lastly, on page 17 - which is a little more complicated - I am wrongly described in the last paragraph as requesting 'that the matter be referred to the Rules Committee' .
Everybody in this House, yesterday and this morning, has been desperately trying to shuffle off responsibility for what happened here yesterday.
We have been driving the process of reform in this House.
Every group in this House was represented on that working group.
The Conference of Presidents does not establish these proposals or the way in which they are carried out.
And I have to say that in my group we do not agree with this system of control, which does not guarantee transparency or that Parliament will work well.
But I would like to say to the colleagues: the implementation of the reform must be reviewed, but not the principle of the reform measure.
We should have the courage to review matters that damage this House.
Mr President, the details of the regulation should be reviewed.
I remind the President that I did participate in certain votes, particularly human rights.
The Bureau's ruling was that, prior to each roll-call vote, the Members would indicate whether they wished to participate or not.
Mr Falconer, I understand that the President in the Chair yesterday did not give you the floor every time you asked for it.
But it has been noted in the Minutes that you did not participate in the vote every time.
So, in practice, the result was exactly the same.
My name is not included in the list of Members in the Minutes.
If Members had attended the debate last night on the final report, which was my report on landfill, they would have heard the Commissioner say that she was reluctant to give in full her speech with all the opinions of the Commission on the amendments tabled by Members of this House because it was late and she was rather tired.
Mr President, I would like you, if you could, to communicate with the Commissioner this morning to say that before we vote at 12.00 noon, it is essential that the Commission makes known to me, as rapporteur, to the committee chairmen and to all Members of this House exactly what its view was on the amendments tabled by Parliament.
Secondly, I would like to say that I am 100 % behind what Mr de Vries said.
In my office in recent weeks, three colleagues have been attacked.
I have spoken with a large number of Members who have also been attacked and I believe we must discuss this subject.
For this we need to have a discussion in this House and I believe that the President's decision not to permit this discussion here is no guarantee of the safety of our colleagues.
Mr Rübig, I must tell you, since you are one of our more recent Members, that this is not the first time an objection has been declared unacceptable.
The Presidency has ensured that Iraq has been covered frequently during European Union meetings.
Most recently the Foreign Secretary briefed partners during an informal session held in Panama in the margins of the European Union real group meeting on the 12 February.
On the same day the issue was discussed by European Union political directors at a meeting of the political committee.
The Presidency has also had contacts at a high level with many European Union partners.
I have been in contact with my counterparts in other European Union states in recent days.
European Union Member States are united in believing that Iraq must allow the United Nations Special Commission to continue its vital work as laid down in Security Council Resolution 687 which was the resolution that provided a ceasefire for the end of the Gulf War.
Through a process of inspection and verified destruction, UNSCOM has demolished more weapons capability than was ever destroyed by allied forces during the Gulf War.
However, there are other areas of Saddam's weapons of mass destruction on which further work is required: namely, chemical and biological weapons.
Saddam's chemical weapons include the VX nerve agent.
He has not accounted to UNSCOM for 600 tonnes of chemical precursors for that nerve agent.
All of these weapons represent a serious threat to international peace and security.
They brought with them evidence of a coordinated and sustained programme of concealment by Saddam of his chemical and biological weapons.
In the last 20 months UNSCOM has sought access to 63 sites where it believed concealment was taking place.
It was obstructed and delayed from carrying out inspections at 38 sites and was flatly refused access to a further 14 sites.
Despite Security Council Resolution 687, Iraq only permitted prompt access at 20 % of sites under suspicion.
We must remember that the only reason the UNSCOM regime and the sanctions to enforce it remain in place seven years after the Gulf War is because Saddam will not dismantle weapons of mass destruction, nor will he allow UNSCOM to do the job it has been mandated to do by the United Nations Security Council.
Saddam Hussein has used weapons of mass destruction before.
Ten years ago next month, he dropped chemical weapons on a town in North East Iraq.
This morning, now the United Nations Secretary General has been given the backing of the Security Council for his mission to Baghdad, we all wish him every success.
He persists in his obstruction of the wish of the international community.
European Union Member States believe that any diplomatic solution must allow UNSCOM full and unconditional access to all sites as mandated by United Nations Security Council resolutions.
We believe that Saddam Hussein must comply with the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The present dispute over presidential sites exposes the Iraqi propaganda that it is sanctions that are the cause of the hardship and the suffering of the Iraqi people.
European Union countries on the Security Council in New York have taken the lead in trying to alleviate the worst of this suffering.
The oil-for-food programme under which Iraq is allowed to export limited quantities of oil in return for humanitarian goods was first offered to Iraq in the summer of 1991 as United Nations Security Council Resolution 706 indicates.
It was not until five years later that Saddam Hussein was shamed into accepting UN Security Council Resolution 986 which set up the present oil-for-food programme.
Those European Union Member States at present on the Security Council have taken the lead in taking the recent recommendations of the UN Secretary General to more than double the amount of oil that Iraq can sell under this programme and turning them into a Security Council resolution.
I very much hope that this resolution will be adopted this week.
I recommend that Members study the report of Max van der Stoel, the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Iraq.
Mr van der Stoel's most recent report describes human rights in Iraq as 'terrible' .
He concludes: ' The system of military dictatorship effectively requires that human rights violations occur in order to retain the position and privileges of those in power.
The price of criticizing the regime is execution.
Let us hope that Saddam responds and cooperates fully with the United Nations Special Commission.
Mr President, the Commission's view on this conflict is that we all think the international community's first priority at the moment is to be able to reach an agreement with the Iraqi Government within the next few days, in order to avoid military intervention which basically nobody wants.
Therefore, as the President-in-Office of the Council has just said, the Commission also fully supports the activities of the United Nations Security Council, and especially its Secretary General, in their efforts to ensure that the Iraqi authorities comply fully with the Security Council resolutions.
Mr President, my group is very aware of the responsibility it bears in this debate today.
Within this group we have Members of Parliament who represent nine socialist and social democrat-led governments in this Union, and these parties are in government in three more of the 15.
We do not pretend that it is easy to find a common position, given the range of views which are represented not just in those 12 governments but also amongst the people of the European Union whom we represent.
But I want to pay tribute to my colleagues who have striven to find principles which are common to us all and which unite us in this, one of the most difficult life-and-death decisions this present Parliament has had to confront since 1994.
We have made our criticism about the lack of progress of the CFSP quite clear in recent years and, particularly, our dissatisfaction at the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty in this respect.
With all of this in mind, my group has just three main strategic political points which it wants to make in this debate.
Firstly, we insist absolutely that Saddam Hussein must comply fully with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and allow the unrestricted and unconditional access of the UN weapons inspection teams to all locations on Iraqi territory.
These UN resolutions on Iraq represented a real step forward by beginning the process of monitoring and verifying disarmament.
Secondly, my group believes that the only body legitimately responsible for this policy is the United Nations.
We want to give our wholesale support to the UN and, in particular, we thank the Secretary General for the hard work and commitment he has shown in his attempt to solve this crisis through diplomatic and political pressure.
I must tell you that there are some in my group who believe passionately that the United Nations, and only the United Nations, should decide what happens next.
They argue against any military action without the sanction of the United Nations Security Council.
Whilst they do not represent the majority in my group, be in no doubt that they do not argue that case from any weakening resolve to enforce existing UN resolutions; nor because they want to give Saddam Hussein any hope that he will be able to escape our determination to remove from him any potential to damn the region and the world with his weapons of mass destruction.
For the great majority, however, we believe that the United Nations-led drive for a political and diplomatic solution must be the focus for our parliamentary action at this moment.
Thirdly, my group is committed to the food-for-oil programme and the additional programme which Kofi Annan has proposed to support the Iraqi people.
I know that next Monday, 23 February, the General Affairs Council has the situation of Iraq on its agenda.
I hear you saying that the Presidency has kept partners in the European Union informed.
Parliament needs the Council to find a common position for the European Union.
Iraq has biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction, associated with the development of rocket programmes which represent a danger not only to the immediate locality in the Middle East but in the medium and long term can be a great danger to ourselves and our peoples.
But in my opinion, to do nothing and to let Saddam Hussein carry on ducking and diving as he has done for seven years with the world community, would lead to the spread of weapons of mass destruction and we sit there like paper tigers, who have lost any claim to authority in this world.
If this should lead to military conflict it will not be the responsibility of those who want compliance with the will of the international community but of those who do not comply with decisions of the United Nations, that is Saddam Hussein.
We can reflect all the difficulties experienced by our continent, but we can also provide a significant, definitive example of what dialectics and, above all, peace and political and social cohesion mean.
Mr President, the Liberal group attaches great importance to respect for international rule of law, and to the opinions and resolutions of the Security Council.
It would be better if military intervention were avoided, but effective pressure on people or dictators such as the one in Iraq is not possible without a credible military threat, and it is this military threat which can make a diplomatic success possible.
Europe must play its part in this successful international approach.
In the meantime, Iraq and Saddam are laughing up their sleeve.
That is why the Union as a whole must support the US explicitly, exert credible pressure on Iraq and provide a clear strategy and contingency planning in case of military intervention.
A longer term strategy therefore also requires that attention be focused on other countries in the region.
Firstly, it will kill many Iraqi citizens who are wholly innocent of any offence against the United States or its real or imagined interests.
Secondly, if it is claimed that the dictatorial nature of the regime is the reason for military action, then there are significant numbers of other dictatorships against which action is not envisaged.
Thirdly, unilateral action will undermine and discredit the United Nations organization because only a Security Council decision can legitimate action against any Member State.
In this case, the Presidency has unilaterally chosen what to do regardless of any other opinions which might exist in other Member States.
The GUE group has proposed a joint resolution with the Greens and why we are launching an appeal to members of other political groups in this Parliament and to political parties, civil associations, churches and cultural bodies throughout Europe to oppose this military escalation and to urge all EC Member States to refuse to support it.
That did not dislodge Saddam Hussein's despotic totalitarian regime.
Over the following seven years, Iraq has been subject to a massive international blockade.
The infant mortality rate has increased from 24 to 98 per 1000 births.
Now the USA wants to hide its President's domestic problems through a new bombing war against Iraq, a war which is going to increase the suffering of the civilian population without solving the problem of weapons of mass destruction, and without paying any regard to the UN, which the USA systematically sabotages.
Of course the Green group supports Kofi Annan.
Of course we think that Iraq should comply with the UN's resolutions, but the same also applies to other states which are the subject of UN resolutions.
That means that the EU is now helping the war of the civilizations: the West against the Arab-Muslim world, because that is what it is going to be.
That also means that the EU's good name - it has actually had a good name in the Arab world - will disappear.
Secondly, we believe that the European Union is not neutral in this conflict which has its beginnings in 1990, and that the question of our basic conception of liberty is at issue.
We know all this and we also deplore the British Presidency for believing it could express, without even a formal meeting of the General Affairs Council, its national prejudices and thereby stress the vacuity of the diplomacy of the Union.
We know all this, but we take responsibility by voting for the resolution and insisting on the following points.
Secondly, any military intervention would only be legitimate if preceded by a decision by the Security Council.
Thirdly, the Union should wholeheartedly support the mission of the UN Secretary General and reaffirm the absolute priority which it accords to diplomatic efforts.
It is on the condition of these three points that our group will approve a text which explicitly includes the military solution as the only one capable of lending credibility to diplomatic pressure.
Beyond the person of Saddam Hussein, the international community must take into consideration above all Iraq and its integrity, the Iraqi people and its sovereignty.
It would provoke very hostile reactions towards the West from the Arab world and would risk stirring up the occupied territories.
If, in fact, the real objective is the full application by the Iraqi authorities of the United Nations resolutions which call for the complete disarmament of the country, we must first note that Iraq today no longer represents a threat to the security of its neighbours.
It no longer has any nuclear capability and its ballistic potential is under control.
If the Security Council thinks it necessary to reinforce the inspections and controls to detect as far as possible any chemical and biological weapons which Iraq has in its possession, it should be possible to settle this residual question by political dialogue.
Of course, these diplomatic efforts do not all speak with one voice, but they speak loudly, and this is how Europe in all its diversity comes to be an important player in this crisis.
Thirdly, the UN should have an ever more significant and important duty, particularly at diplomatic level, to ensure that its prerogative remains intact and that its resolutions are accepted without any hesitation or delay by all those who have signed the accession.
This is particularly so to avoid the catastrophic effects of a conflict that would force the civilian population into great discomfort, particularly the weaker sections - the children and the elderly - who are still paying harshly for the effects of the previous war.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President Marín, I believe that each and every one of us in this House feels revulsion for Saddam Hussein and his regime.
In my view, Europe must insist on three things, in solidarity with but certainly not in subordination to the policy of America.
A few years ago it was still possible to organize as many Arab countries as possible in a coalition against Saddam Hussein, which is impossible today.
But we must all be clear about one thing: the weaker the consensus in the Security Council and the United Nations, the more negative any effects will be, particularly on the relationship between the West and the Arab world.
We had already read this in the papers.
The British Presidency - from which we had expected a fresh, new approach - could have made an attempt to avoid this being part of the problem.
Unfortunately, the British Presidency has only acted nationally, and has actually forgotten its duty as leader of foreign policy of the Union.
There is no European Union, or Council position regarding Iraq or regarding Algeria.
Parliament's resolution must now add something to this unusual situation in order to fill the vacuum a little.
At the same time, the European Union should not leave the United States and the United Kingdom the monopoly on handling the crisis on the Western side.
Mr President, we are all quite clear that Iraq must comply with international resolutions.
The role of the European Union in this matter is quite frankly regrettable.
We should support the democratic opposition in Iraq, of course.
Mr President, let me first make it clear on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament that we hold no brief for Saddam Hussein.
Let us inspect all sites around the world including those in the USA and in Britain which still exist.
The Financial Times this morning reports that Foreign Office officials brief that Britain is prepared to use nuclear weapons against Iraq if Saddam responds.
Let this Parliament speak clearly against this unnecessary war.
The joint resolution of the EPP and the PSE does not go far enough.
The Green amendments to the joint resolution will say all these things.
No prima facie evidence on this subject has even begun to be provided.
This country with 20 million inhabitants has been methodically starved for seven years.
To get to the capital, you have to cross 900 kilometres of desert in terrible conditions.
If you wish to go to war with your American friends, go ahead, but go without us!
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am sorry that the British Government has unilaterally and immediately declared that it is prepared to take part in a military action, without consulting the European governments and seeking a common position.
The joint resolution of several political groups calls us to this responsibility today; it calls us to define a common position, to support all diplomatic means, particularly the missions of the UN and its Secretary General, and its proposal of oil in return for food directed at the population.
Another example is that UN sources indicate that Saddam has hidden chemical missiles and arms in Algeria, Libya and Sudan.
The situation is also different in terms of politics.
As Clinton said yesterday, war is never the first option, even if it may be the only option in certain situations.
Unfortunately, we cannot thank Europe for this because, once again, Europe, which is preparing to become a monetary power, is not managing to become a political power, not even when faced with a crisis that could provide it with more than we believe today.
For this reason, I am joining all those who have criticized the inexplicable and unacceptable behaviour of the British Presidency in these circumstances.
We also know the role his government has played, first to block, then to hinder the mission in Iraq of the Secretary General, Kofi Annan.
We learn that the use of incredible force to produce a diplomatic solution has long ceased to be a threat to achieve anything at all, as the juggernaut of American military power moves inexorably and with devastating force against the Iraqi people: there are one and a half million victims of the embargo, an embargo that somebody in this House wants to prolong forever.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is totally disgraceful to claim that Iraq would really threaten its neighbours with what remains of an arsenal which has been voluntarily overestimated by Israeli-American disinformation.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution I would like to say something about the role of the European Union and our House in this conflict.
In our resolution we demand a common position on a common foreign and security policy, but we also say in this resolution how we view this.
In any case, it involves a resolution put forward by a majority in our House and, as already mentioned, adopted before the Council and the Commission are in a position to put forward some kind of common text for discussion.
In our House, and this has been said, there are some who dispute this.
It is to be hoped that further measures against the dictator will be supported by the whole international community.
Mr President-in-Office, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the refusal of Iraq to comply with the decisions of the UN can only be condemned firmly and without ambiguity by any country or parliament.
Respect for international law is the condition for peace, all the more so because in this case we are dealing with highly dangerous weapons.
But who could refuse or regret exhausting all possible diplomatic and political efforts before using force to put these weapons out of action to prevent them causing harm in case negotiations failed?
Firstly, was Iraq capable of manufacturing these terrible arms on its own, or was it aided by other members of the UN?
In terms of international politics, Europe does not exist, and this shortcoming can only be compensated for by the Member States.
Your attitude, Mr President-in-Office, that of your government, was of particular significance in this respect, and I would like to know what you have done in your role as President of the European Council, and not as the British government, with regard to the Arab countries, with regard to the Soviet Union, with regard to China, with regard to the UN and in general within the European Union.
Thirdly, must we go to war with Iraq every ten years, or will we learn from the first Gulf War and from the present situation to reflect on the issues of the balance of forces in the region, the law of each country and its security, the role of oil in this crisis, the influence of blocking the peace process on the general situation in the Middle East, the use of an embargo on Iraq, and the situation of the Iraqi population which is hostage both to its dictator and to the West?
If Europe existed, it would certainly have been able to do something to direct the situation during the past ten years in order to avoid the current tragic deadlock.
Madam President, I think that notwithstanding the above, this Parliament could pass a resolution which firstly categorically opposes any military intervention in Iraq - regardless of the situation, whether reprehensible, etcetera - and secondly, defends in the same integrated way a political and diplomatic solution.
Instead of that, however, the four groups have a resolution which in one way or another very cunningly creates the prerequisites for its use as a fig-leaf for military intervention by the Americans.
From this House, I warn the Italian government not to use bases in the Po Valley for attacks which we cannot accept.
The Security Council should play a part, but there is a difference of opinion about the interpretation of the UN resolutions on Iraq.
The compromise resolution before us is a perfect expression of this notion.
Our aim is not war, but there are limits to the international community's patience.
On the other hand, I am of course very happy that the discussion is being held here today, since it is simply high time that we in Europe speak with one voice - I am very happy, Commissioner Marín, that you are again with us -, that we speak with one voice on a subject that has already been described by CNN as the "showdown in the Gulf' .
We must be clear on one point: the journey of this Secretary General must undoubtedly not turn into a flop like the one made by the Secretary General in 1991, which was practically the introduction to the Gulf War.
Anyone who has observed in our own continent the effects of anthrax over 50 years ago in Scotland on Anthrax Island, understands that it is really necessary for us to speak with one voice here, because we cannot foresee these effects, nor do we want to foresee them.
Madam President, coming from Northern Ireland as I do, I have to say that there is hypocrisy in both President Clinton and Prime Minister Blair.
They tell the IRA terrorists in my country that they can hold on to their weapons which have murdered my constituents, both Roman Catholic and Protestant, and be welcomed at the White House and Downing Street.
Madam President, after "Desert Storm' here we are again on the brink of a new intervention in Iraq led by the United States of America.
The Iraqi dictator is flouting the international community once more.
In 1990, the UN authorized force to be used under Chapter 7.
And Europe as such was present, active notably through the voice of the Presidency and of the troika which did not carefully handle its efforts and turned up in Baghdad in spite of certain reservations shown particularly in this Parliament.
Prime Minister Blair is doubtless very active and omnipresent, however President Blair has disappeared.
Under these conditions, an intervention would indicate a serious weakening of the authority of the United Nations and of the presence of the European Union, which has become a negligible quantity in world terms.
But it reflects the lack of certainty in foreign policy, both in Washington and London, and, I regret, elsewhere in Europe.
I regret, therefore, that Robin Cook has not found it possible to come here, although he spent the whole of yesterday afternoon in the House of Commons.
We know that in that part of the world there is little to choose between two despotic regimes, one in Iran and one in Iraq.
Therefore, we feel that the present diplomatic mission by Kofi Annan needs every support.
But we cannot allow Saddam Hussein to continue to have the ability to threaten not only his own people but those neighbouring his country and even much further afield with the technology he has been trying to develop.
Madam President, in my nine years in this Parliament I have never before heard a speech of such distorted, selfindulgent drivel as that which Mr Kerr gave a short while ago.
The conflagration in the Middle East resulting from that Scud missile is beyond imagination.
We must be clear in this Chamber that international law must be adhered to.
The common text we have before us is united in making sure that Saddam Hussein is clearly identified as being in the wrong; that there has to be implementation of UN resolutions.
We must have a diplomatic solution to this problem.
Madam President, Saddam Hussein has inflicted vast suffering on huge numbers of people.
No military action should be taken anyway without the explicit and full agreement of the United Nations Security Council, which must meet again on this issue.
The European Union must formulate its own foreign policy, not supinely follow the United States, particularly when the United States is wrong.
Madam President, I welcome the mandate of the Secretary General of the UN to seek a peaceful solution to this dangerous conflict.
The task and the obligation of the European Union, and specifically of its British Presidency, will be to strengthen the Secretary General's hand and to show confidence in his negotiating skills.
This strengthens me in my hope and desire that the other 14 members of the European Union will soon be able to count on this same solidarity and loyalty.
I very much regret that this morning I did not have the opportunity to speak on the roll-call vote and its financial implications.
Then I would have also had one and a half minutes speaking time like my 15 colleagues who this morning took away half an hour from this important debate on Iraq in order to talk about the new regulation and the roll-call vote.
Madam President, I welcome the joint resolution supported by my group which is before the House today.
It gives a clear signal to Saddam Hussein that Europe is united in its condemnation of Iraq's failure to comply with UN Security Council resolutions.
This House seeks a diplomatic solution to the Iraqi crisis and welcomes the work Kofi Annan is undertaking to resolve it.
But Iraq should know that if it does not allow UNSCOM to continue its vital work, the real threat of military action will remain.
Saddam must destroy all remaining stocks of chemical and biological weapons and the potential to develop other weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons.
Saddam has used these weapons before, as we have heard, both against his own people and Iran.
He must never be allowed to use weapons of mass destruction again.
Madam President, countries should be founded on law.
I have the impression that the Council, under its worthy Presidency, has not taken the necessary steps to achieve a certain common position, far less a joint action.
I think the Council - its President - should take advantage of this opportunity to analyse why, when faced with such dramatic and urgent circumstances, it was really not possible to formulate a rough outline which a truly united Europe - that united Europe you have mentioned so often, Mr President-in-Office - could have used to respond to the crisis situation we are all so worried and upset about.
Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to reply to this very important debate.
I would firstly confirm that our Presidency has fulfilled its obligations under Article J.5(4) in the Treaty of Maastricht in that we have kept other members of the Union fully informed of positions on which we have expressed a view and, where it has been possible to identify European Union positions, we have defended those positions in our representations.
If one had listened to this debate from outside Parliament, one might have the impression that there were huge divisions among European Union states on how to deal with Iraq.
That resolution covers the same ground which has been identified as important common ground by European Union members of the Council, such as the need for international law to be upheld.
That is a very large area of common ground that will be shared not only by the European Union members of the Council and the Members of this Parliament but will be seen outside by the peoples of Europe as a very important, reasonable position in trying to face up to the dangers in Iraq.
I want to conclude by mentioning the other important common position, namely that we all recognize the crucially important role that Kofi Annan will play on behalf of us all in taking the backing of the Security Council to Baghdad to identify all those common positions and to say to Saddam Hussein that we want to negotiate a diplomatic solution.
Madam President, if the President-in-Office has a strong standpoint as the representative of the Council, why does he not publish it?
I am very happy to try to deal with the four questions which have been raised.
UNSCOM have been trying to do their work.
There is all this evidence that I referred to in my opening address, and other evidence, that there is a great danger that those large stockpiles of very serious weapons could ignite a problem.
I hope that a diplomatic solution can be found to it.
As I said in my winding up, I believe that we have honoured our obligations under the Maastricht Treaty in that regard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
So, in order to organize the situation as well as possible, I would like to take up the proposal again which I made this morning and which has been amended very timely by the considerations which some Members have forwarded to me.
This would allow us to vote in a dignified way on this morning's very important reports.
So again, the aim of my proposal is to allow us to work as effectively as possible this morning.
Madam President, I can understand your desire to speed up the agenda, but my problem is that if we accept what you are proposing then it will be a set precedent for the future.
Secondly, we would like an assurance that the Bureau will not wait three months to review these matters but will review them within the next three days.
The proposal which I made to you, whilst I am aware that it is not perfect - although no system is perfect - applies only to this morning, and also, taking into account the exceptional situation this morning, requires us to interrupt our votes for half an hour for the reasons everyone is aware of.
You can remind Members who feel that they cannot vote in favour of or against a particular proposal that we do have in fact a third button on our voting machine that they can press, namely the abstention button.
No, Mr Corbett, abstention and the fact of not participating in the vote do not have the same significance.
Madam President, I wish to speak about the events of this morning, during which our emergency resolution on crime in Brussels was rejected.
About 50 Members have signed for this motion to be dealt with in Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Rübig.
I am happy to formally record your motion. (The President noted that there were no objections to her proposal) Votes Madam President, we submitted a request yesterday to vote on the Hautala report first.
The Parliament is sovereign. (Parliament gave its assent to changing the order of the votes) Madam President, I wanted to inquire if the fact of having listened to the excellent speech by the President of Portugal can be taken into account when calculating allowances and how the Presidency intends to deal with this.
Mr Dell'Alba, I am sorry, but we have exactly twenty minutes to hold some very important votes.
Madam President, during the speech by the Portuguese President, telephones rang within the Hemicycle on at least two occasions.
Madam President, you will not have expected otherwise than for me at this point to make the sharpest possible protest, not against you, dear Madame President, but against our President, because I regard this procedure as absolutely unacceptable.
Without going into the substance of the matter, the problem lies in Rules 72 and 62.
The relevant part of Rule 62 states: ' where, through the passage of time or changes in circumstances, the nature of the problem with which the proposal is concerned substantially changes' , then we take a particular course of action.
It was my judgement in committee that the nature of the problem had not changed between the first reading and now: we still have problems with radiation, we know what these problems potentially are, and we need a directive in order to control this.
So the nature of the problem did not change.
Then we come to Rule 72, which concerns amendments to the Council's common position.
Madam President, I do not wish to delay proceedings but having heard both speakers before me with regard to the problems associated with the amendments and so on, I propose to the House that we refer this report back to the committee until such time as they come up with a proper text that we can all accept.
Mr Crowley, I have not received any request of this nature. (The President declared the two common positions approved (as amended) ) We support the initiative to increase checks on foodstuffs in production and at the place of destination.
The outcome is of the utmost importance both for human health and for the environment.
In addition, we think that the very strict proposals on aromatics, which are unchanged in spite of the compromise on sulphur content, are very misleading.
I have studied in detail the report by Mrs Heidi Hautala.
I am convinced that there are other solutions.
We must take into account the impact of these measures on the oil industry, which, although likely to adapt to the initial requirements, could run into difficulties if Parliament toughened the provisions of the programme.
It is not a question, as far as I am concerned, of accepting the use of employment as blackmail, but only of confirming a desire to preserve industrial competitiveness in a sector which experiences fierce global competition.
With this in mind, the Commission presented two directives which aim to reduce car emissions and to improve the quality of fuels.
At first reading, the European Parliament adopted a large number of amendments which aim to strengthen the standards proposed by the Commission.
At the moment we are at second reading and trying to work out an agreement on the common position of the Council.
Today's vote clearly showed that the compromise has a lot of support in the European Parliament.
Hopefully the outcome will also encourage the Council and the Commission to abandon their opposition to the European Parliament's proposals.
But one thing is certain: the large companies have made substantial profits which enable them to make investments to modernize refineries, which at times were left to become more or less obsolete, in response to environmental needs.
They also know well that, from now on, the global petrol market will not be able to escape these developments - they are already underway in the United States.
All too often our fellow citizens see Europe as being too distant or too restrictive.
Today, in dealing with a subject of the future which affects all our daily lives, Europe can bear the hope of the people, the well-being and the progress of the majority.
We must vote for the Lange and Hautala reports.
In this way the European Parliament will mark its place in history.
French and European public opinion is very sensitive to the effects on health of pollutant emissions from cars.
Putting vehicles into service which meet the new technical standards will only have staggered effects in the medium term, and means the progressive renewal of all vehicles on the road in the Member States of the European Union.
The introduction of oxygen from fossils or plants should also be encouraged, given its positive and immediate effect on air quality.
My reason for voting against the Hautala report is not because I do not agree with the objectives it seeks to achieve, but because I consider that its proposals are untenable.
This means that the southern countries, which are poorer, would be obliged to assume at least 60 % of the total investments.
In the specific case of Portugal, we have an oil company which is one of the largest in the country, in terms of turnover, number of employees, value added and exports.
In addition, this company - PETROGAL - uses the most modern and sophisticated production processes, and will have no difficulty in meeting, by the year 2003, the requirements stipulated in the agreement reached with the Council after first reading.
Finally, it should be emphasized that this company is one of the largest employers in most Portuguese-speaking countries, and its activities constitute an essential component of their respective economies, a fact the European Union must recognize.
The report by Mr Lange is interesting from more than one point of view.
These developments have undeniably had an impact on the reduction of harmful emissions, both for diesel and internal combustion engines.
Our desire to legislate in this area is legitimate.
There is the risk of eventually heading towards a reduction in air quality by wishing to impose standards for emissions which are too severe.
These two reports set out the European Parliament's view of the Auto-Oil programme drawn up by industry and the Commission.
In the EU at this time, there are about 200 million cars of all different varieties.
Here the Commission represents the old world which supports the vehicle and oil industries, while Parliament is making environmental and sustainable demands of the companies and industrial products of the future.
Earlier requirements on industry, such as in the introduction of catalytic converters, clearly showed that if the requirements are clear, industry adapts to the reality and converts its production to meet the requirements.
I have recently been involved in assisting a Northern Ireland organization, which is trying to develop a European market for an emission-reducing additive, in finding its way around the maze of Commission bureaucracy.
We are well aware that the Commission cannot approve or endorse any individual products but I believe that means should be sought whereby it can be made easier for those working in this field to have their products assessed with a minimum of bureaucracy.
Recommendation for second reading (A4-0038/98) Hautala and (A4-0043/98) Lange These two reports are absolutely inextricable since there is a close technical connection between engines and fuel and this explains my joint explanation of vote.
The European Parliament must be consistent and strengthen its vote from first reading.
We must go further than the Council's common position and demand mandatory, not indicative limits for emissions in 2005.
At first reading, Parliament rightly indicated its intention to toughen standards by the year 2000, both for petrol and for exhaust gas emissions, along with its commitment to establishing a restrictive framework for 2005.
This position of our House enabled the Council to improve the Commission's initial text.
But the technical situation and social and environmental urgency enable us to go further; it is up the European Parliament to go one step further within the framework of codecision.
They know that environmental quality will be a decisive stake, as much in terms of world competition as in terms of the expectations of buyers.
The car industry in Europe is faced with the relative saturation of the European market.
The demanding and restrictive standards for new vehicles proposed for 2005 in the Lange report provide a definite form for this movement and allow research measures to be implemented straight away - essential developments given full knowledge of the facts.
The clarity of the framework and of the objectives acts as a guarantee for manufacturers.
The new procedures we have retained will also help create jobs in sectors such as chemistry, catalysis, etcetera.
Both reports seek to address two aspects of this complex problem: fuel quality and the reduction of exhaust gases.
Atmospheric pollution has become a political issue quite simply because cities and the large European metropolises have experienced or are currently experiencing this type of problem.
But they must also understand that in responding to the expectations of public opinion on pollution, they will benefit from a better image and this could lead to them gaining new sectors of the market.
Taking the example of diesel, it is clear that its commercial success in certain countries in the Union condemns it to reducing its pollution levels simply in order to preserve its image and its sales.
For example, the injection technique ought to resolve this type of problem.
But this difficult situation is not at all due to environmental standards.
Estimates indicate that 20 % of the cars on the road cause around 80 % of the pollution.
But my difficulty is when Parliament's Committee on the Environment goes further, much further than the common position of the Council.
Of course I, too, am convinced that the critical thing for Europe is to find a balance between the various proposals for cleaning up the air and their real impact on the environment, and with this in mind, I have to say that the European oil industry has done a great deal to improve air quality up to now.
But we must recognize that in order to reach the fixed objectives for cleaning up the air, the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment is proposing standards which are certainly amongst the most ambitious in the world.
But if we consider the costs of the different proposals, ECU 11.5 billion for the Commission, ECU 20 billion for the Council and ECU 60 billion for the European Parliament, I think that in the current state of affairs, it would be unreasonable to go beyond the measures in the Council's common position.
All we can do is hope that the Council is on the right track on this occasion and that it will look on this common position as a temporary stage on the way towards stricter measures.
Recommendation for second reading (A4-0042/98) Bloch von Blottnitz Madam President, I must say that today we have done a great disservice to the cause of consumer protection.
I am extremely sorry that not all colleagues have followed this path and that the required majority has not been achieved.
I am in favour of the very restrictive conclusions of this report, which will allow the irradiation of foods exclusively as a method of preservation for spices.
I share this view, which I already put forward in this House in October 1989 and in December 1993.
I am deeply concerned about the plan contained in the common position of the Council and the Commission to issue both a framework directive and an implementing directive containing a positive list which is gradually being extended - it currently includes only the aforementioned aromatic herbs and spices.
First of all, I would congratulate the President of the European Parliament for his responsible attitude in refusing to incorporate at second reading new amendments to the proposal for a Council directive, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure.
Now it is important that this debate on ionization of foodstuffs takes place with transparency and with serenity.
We have suffered enough from the problem of BSE not to be particularly attentive to these critical issues in connection with any malfunctioning of the Commission.
As a result, the procedure proposed, which gives the Council the final decision, seems entirely satisfactory, because the governments of the different Member States are best placed to protect their own consumers.
The adoption procedure for the current directive has been exceptionally long - eight years have elapsed between first and second reading - and this shows that the Council wished to adopt a cautious approach.
The environment has gradually taken on an increasing importance in the construction of the European Union.
Regulation (EEC) 1210/90, which is to be amended through this report, had allowed us, in this respect, to comply with the initiative taken in 1989 by Jacques Delors to create a European Environment Agency.
Established in 1995, the EEA has until now undertaken valuable work concerning the environmental situation in the countries of the Union in terms of the collection and distribution of objective data and perfecting techniques to aid forecasting and prevention.
Moreover, in future, the Commission should systematically ask the Agency for reports before implementing even minor new Community policies.
In this sense, I agree with my colleague, Mr Collins, who, wondering why there is no mention in the Commission's report of the importance of Parliament's role in the legislative process, asks that the obligation to report its results to Parliament be included in the draft revision.
The European Environment Agency must also, within the framework of its duties, take into account other aspects such as forests, waste products and chemical products on the one hand, and on the other, the Union's future time scales, particularly its enlargement and the environmental problems that this will undoubtedly entail.
I welcome discussion on this report.
It is also important that greater cooperation is achieved between the Agency and Member States and of course applicant states.
Finally it is important that the Agency's multi-annual work programme should be complemented by a multi-annual budget in order to enable the Agency to plan its work more effectively.
On the subject of Nigeria, the elected President has been overthrown and put into prison during a military coup.
The average life expectancy has fallen from 54 to 47.
Mr President, we believe that Nigeria needs a firm approach, and in spite of all earlier statements we are asking that we should steer towards an economic boycott.
This is the wish of our group - and we are no radical left wingers - and is the wish of a large section of this Parliament.
There, the opposition was also imprisoned and killed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has far too often been accused, not entirely wrongly, of being strong with the weak and weak with the strong, in other words, of energetically pointing out the violations of human rights in countries of little geopolitical significance and of closing its eyes to the violations of the stronger countries.
This is certainly not the case with Nigeria.
We should not forget that Nigeria is constantly seeking to assert its political weight on the other countries in the region, and on the developing countries in general, to oppose the constant appeals of the international Community to restore democracy, an independent legal system, the lawful state and respect for human rights.
It is therefore impossible to remain silent in view of the arrests of those opposed to the current regime, the most authoritative members of the civilian society of that country, nor can we tolerate lightheartedly the fact that several international oil companies are still working in the Ogoni region, despite the violations of human rights and environmental pollution.
As I said this morning, politics, particularly international politics, abhors a vacuum.
The European Union and its individual states cannot fail to exert strong pressure on the Abacha regime to make it perform a serious about-turn, not hesitating, in the extreme, to deprive the current military junta of its principal financial means, by applying a total embargo on the oil trade of that country.
Sanni Abacha overthrew the elected government.
In the meantime, we have set out in this resolution a series of practical steps which the European Union could take and I hope that the Council of Ministers will respond to this and see whether they will go along with each of these.
This is a very carefully calibrated practical series of proposals from this Parliament and I think that they are a very fitting response to the challenge.
It is the one thing which could bring down the regime so we have to keep that up our sleeve as the last resort and in the meantime put the pressure on the regime to transfer to democratic government which is what the Nigerian people deserve.
No less than 11 resolutions have been adopted by this House since 1993, when the democratic process in Nigeria was brutally interrupted by the cancellation of the presidential elections and the establishment of a military regime under General Abacha.
The Union and the international community should take them at their word.
General Abacha gave an undertaking to transfer his powers to a democratically-elected civilian president by the end of this year.
Let us take him at his word and, as the present resolution rightly states, we must clearly set out a number of prerequisites that we consider essential to guarantee the credibility and the viability of the promised transition to civilian government.
However, the people in those two countries both endure the most tyrannical military juntas and suffer systematic abuses of human rights.
Similarly, on Nigeria, will the Council give us a commitment that it will implement the measures already agreed in the common position, particularly on visas, which have been regularly flouted by generals?
Mr President, the regime in Burma may have changed its name, but the policy has stayed exactly the same.
The State Peace Development Council, as it is called now, continues its policy of suppression.
The case of Burma is certainly today one of the most serious in the world.
The "list' of problems is, unfortunately, sadly known and runs from generalized political and social repression to the exploitation of forced and child labour, from drugs trafficking to violation of human rights.
In the Burmese State's budget for 1997-98, defence costs officially amount to 43 % of the total.
The Burmese civilian society has shown its desire for democracy on numerous occasions that have always received our firm support, as shown when the Sakharov Prize was awarded to Aung San Suu Kyi several years ago.
For this reason, while supporting the measures already adopted by the Commission and Council, we ask for pressure to be increased on the Burmese government, accentuating its political and economic isolation.
The attitude of the large private companies, with numerous direct or indirect interests in Burma, is decisive.
A pressure policy should be applied to these companies to freeze their business in the country, business that is only beneficial to the Government.
The opinion the citizens of Europe and those of the rest of the world will have on the European structure also depends on the firm and responsible way in which we manage to deal with the Burmese question and the other democratic emergencies throughout the world.
Thank you, Mr Vecchi.
We have presented and discussed various resolutions on Burma and we were usually in agreement with the Commission and the Council that we must do everything to push forward the democratization process.
My question is therefore how the British Presidency intends to present a common foreign policy position on Burma and perhaps to get this process in motion.
Mr President, I only want to point out that the country's President elected by 80 % of the population asked for economic measures.
The Council promised better, and why not in fact?
The Union, acting jointly at UN level in this area, might achieve something.
That seems to be the Council's view, since it is now going to dispense entirely with proposing a resolution in Geneva.
Mr President, this Parliament resolution is important.
I also have some doubts as regards the Commission.
Some projects have been blocked for two years.
There is one point as regards the United Nations resolution on which I absolutely do not agree: that of "Algeria' .
This morning, Parliament succeeded in adopting a dignified stance on Iraq although this is not the case for other institutions.
Now we must try to influence the Council and the Commission.
Mr President, sadly, I could fill the minutes allocated to me listing countries which flagrantly violate human rights, but I will mention a few which are not often highlighted.
The government rules over the largest part of the country now and, sadly, murders of the opposition leaders are increasing, including in the Cabinda region.
The international community is doing nothing, tempted by oil and the generous sale of arms to the country.
Seven prisoners have been released, who incidently were forced to leave the country immediately, but that still leaves 500 political prisoners.
The objective is to ensure that Parliament can exert its influence in a manner that enables the Council to adopt common positions which will strengthen the values of our European identity and protect the autonomy of the Union, on the occasion of the 54th Session of the United Nations Commission for Human Rights.
During this year in which we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we should act in harmony in order to render the mechanism of the United Nations itself effective in ensuring that human rights are respected throughout the world.
In addition, the serious and cruel situation in Algeria is particularly topical, and particularly complex in the sense that it is not the sole responsibility of one state, except in so far as that state is unable to guarantee public order and respect for the fundamental rights that are being jeopardized by fundamentalist terrorists.
We request the submission of written reports to Parliament by the Council and the Commission on the dialogue that has recently been reopened on the subject of human rights.
We urge the Council to pursue its own common position and follow up on the countless resolutions passed by Parliament.
Firstly, on Nigeria, the Council has been following the situation in Nigeria with concern since the annulment of 12 June 1993 presidential elections.
It has had measures in place against the Nigerian regime since then as a mark of its concerns about the lack of respect for human rights and democratic rule.
The two common positions adopted on 20 November 1995 and 4 December 1995 strengthened the European Union measures to include, among others, visa restrictions on members of the Nigerian regime and their families, including those in possession of long-term visas, a full scale arms embargo and a sports ban.
As the honourable Members have noted, on 28 November 1997 the Council of the European Union extended the common position on Nigeria of 4 December 1995 until 1 November 1998.
At the same time the Council reiterated its concern about the abuse of human rights in Nigeria, including the detention of political prisoners as well as the slow pace of democratization.
It also underlined its willingness to support the transition process.
Since then the Council has followed with considerable concern developments in Nigeria, including the tragic death of Shehu Yar'Adua in detention, the further arrest and detention without charge of journalists and pro-democracy activists, plus the arrest on 21 December 1997 of General Diya and a number of others in connection with an alleged coup attempt.
On 26 December 1997, the Luxembourg Presidency issued a declaration on behalf of the European Union appealing urgently to the Nigerian authorities to treat those arrested in accordance with the legal principles corresponding to international standards.
The Council has noted that a seven-man military tribunal has been constituted under the chairmanship of Major General Malu to try 26 people held under suspicion of coup plotting.
On 14 February the press were allowed to witness the inauguration and see the accused but we understand that the proceedings will be held in camera .
The UNCHR resolution led to the appointment on 16 October of a special rapporteur on Nigeria with a mandate to make contact with the Nigerian authorities and people and report on the human rights situation in that country.
His first report will be submitted to this year's Commission.
I applaud the sustained interest which Members of the European Parliament continue to take in the appalling human rights situation in Burma.
The Council strongly shares Members' concerns.
The Council's message on Burma is simple.
The common position on Burma first adopted in October 1996 includes a full-scale arms embargo, a ban on the issuing of visas for members of the regime and their families, a ban on defence links and aid except for humanitarian aid and a ban on high-level official visits.
Some Member States have introduced additional measures on a national basis.
The Council regularly reviews whether there is a consensus for them to be adopted by all Member States.
To help relieve the suffering which Burmese government policies cause to ordinary Burmese people, the European Union partners are considering a package of positive measures to strengthen civil society in Burma and to reinforce the excellent humanitarian work which is already being done there.
European Union ambassadors in Bangkok are in touch with the government of Thailand about the need to provide shelter and protection for refugees.
The Council keeps Burma high on its agenda for intergovernmental discussions.
We firmly believe that governments in Asia have a particularly important role to play in using their influence with the regime to press for reform in Burma and we continue to urge them to do so.
For example, the United Nations General Assembly in December adopted by consensus a tough resolution on human rights in Burma.
Several European Union Member States were co-sponsors, and the text is stronger than last year's resolution in key areas.
The Union will also introduce a resolution on Burma at the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva next month.
The Council has taken concrete measures to address human rights abuses in Burma.
But the Commission is certainly the most important single opportunity in the international calendar to demonstrate our commitment to human rights and to work towards a realization around the world.
There will be those present who will seek to hamstring the work of the international community to promote human rights.
The Declaration established universal standards of human rights.
Children's rights must be a cross-cutting element in all the work of the Commission.
We will ensure that women's rights are given their due place in the work of the Commission, not just in the resolutions which specifically cover women's rights, but in other Commission action.
In particular there is already agreement within the Union that the Presidency, on behalf of the Union, will table resolutions on Nigeria, Burma, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Israeli settlements, Iran, East Timor and Iraq.
The Union will, in addition, make an intervention setting out our position on other countries where we have major human rights concerns.
But it will depend on developments and progress made in the bilateral and European Union human rights dialogues.
China has demonstrated a willingness to discuss human rights with us and the European Union as a whole.
China has also entered into a dialogue with others.
These discussions have produced results, information on individual cases and agreement on technical cooperation programmes.
The Presidency will also make interventions in debates on racism, democracy and development, detention and rule of law issues, women's rights, advisory services, the rights of the child, human rights' defenders, as well as on Israeli settlements.
They play a crucial role in monitoring violations and advising governments on human rights improvements.
But we know what we want to achieve: real progress towards the realization of all human rights for all people, and we will be working hard to make sure that we achieve it.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has received a number of requests for the floor from Members who have already taken part in the debate.
Given that some ten more speakers are already down for this joint debate, the Bureau's criteria will be to avoid disturbing the normal course of the debate.
Mr President, in general terms the Commission completely accepts the position expressed by the British Presidency with respect to Nigeria and Burma.
It is true that Nigeria is at a critical juncture because presidential elections are due to be held in the next six months, and we hope they will lead to the installation of a civilian government in that country, under a civilian president.
If, for whatever reason, the process of democratic transition were to founder, it could result in a reappearance of the spectre of violence and bloodshed, which could perhaps spread to other countries, with very serious human and economic consequences.
On the other hand, the many questions which Members have raised about the Nigeria issue show the concern within the European Union to see the democratic process firmly established in that country, and the economic benefits of its resources finally distributed fairly amongst the population, which is increasing all the time and becoming poorer and poorer.
Finally, I want to say that the Commission intends to continue its efforts towards dialogue with the Nigerian government, giving special priority to measures designed precisely to combat human rights violations, strengthen the independence and training of the courts and the legal professions, improve governability and assist the process of supporting democracy.
At the moment there is no significant contact between the Commission and the military junta.
It is true that the common position calls on us to initiate that political dialogue but, I repeat, with the military junta this has not been possible.
The Commission has set in motion a programme of support for the opposition, for the Burmese dissident movement which has been established in Europe, and in that sense we have launched a project with the aim of strengthening the democratic movements and training members of the opposition and future leaders.
In other words, we have made contact with the opposition and with the dissidents within that opposition living in Europe, and we are helping them.
Finally, the European Union's position on the ASEAN question is very clear.
Firstly, the fact that Burma has been accepted into ASEAN's regional framework is a matter for ASEAN itself.
As far as the Commission is concerned, I first want to point out once again in Parliament that Burma is not included in the 1980 cooperation agreement which was extended to Brunei and Vietnam.
Furthermore, Burma is also excluded from all the cooperation programmes being implemented with ASEAN.
So there is no need to worry, because as things stand and until such time as the common position changed, we are strictly complying both with what the Council called for in its common position and with what this Parliament has so often called for.
Mr President, over two years since the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa, when his son, Ken, came to Brussels three days later and generated total and absolute support from every part of this House for a return to democracy and human rights in Nigeria, we are forced once again to ask the European Parliament to condemn the Abacha regime's continuing disregard for these principles.
The arrests of alleged coup plotters last December, threats against journalists who report them, and the arrest of 30 perceived activists preceding the Ogoni Day celebrations last month are all testimony to the abandonment of even token efforts by the Nigerian government towards democratic transition.
We say again, today, that oil sanctions remain the only instrument available to the international community which will guarantee change; oil earnings, which account for 96 % of all Nigeria's export earnings, with 40 % of all federal government revenue provided by one European company: Shell.
The European Parliament should condemn the Nigerian government for its announcement this month that it is seeking to resume oil operations in Ogoniland by force.
They see Shell.
A report about the struggle against Shell was found on the back seat.
Let us, let Shell, let every Member State who trades in oil act now to save the life of Batom Mitee, of the thirty others arrested with him, and of all oppressed Nigerian people who they represent.
Mr President, as one of the co-authors of the resolutions on Nigeria and Burma, I am particularly pleased that we are having this debate this afternoon using the oral question with debate rather than the normal urgency procedure.
This has to be considered somewhat ironic in view of the fact that Nigeria has been given the go-ahead to take part in the World Cup.
It tears a hole in the whole system and allows a number of Nigerians to come to Paris and other places to take part in the World Cup.
I have made my two points concerning the World Cup and the extent of investment in Burma.
The military power of this bloodthirsty junta - for it was called a junta by Commissioner Marín, rather than a dictatorship - with a president who had been elected and of whom we know nothing, with Ken Saro-Wiwa and other Ogoni representatives who have been executed, is now extending to other African countries.
I would like to know whether, in this critical dialogue the Commission intended to hold with Nigeria, the possibility that Nigeria may become the peacemaker with the arms of Africa and the African region is also implied.
The second question relates to Burma.
I call on the Council and the Member States to list Algeria amongst the priorities for debate at the next session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and remain convinced that sending a special rapporteur does not represent a punishment or a condemnation of this country.
Democratically elected presidents are deposed and political opponents imprisoned or hanged.
Under the ECOMOG flag, Nigerian soldiers are fighting against the military junta in Sierra Leone, supposedly to reinstate the democratically elected president, but Sierra Leone's diamond fields must be the primary reason.
In November 1995, the Council suspended military cooperation and development aid.
This would hit the regime hard, because oil exports account for 90 % of its income.
I do believe that the existing sanctions the Council introduced against Nigeria should be closely observed.
Mr President, the people of Burma deserve a vote in favour of the statement being debated here today.
The Burmese regime is one of the most unpleasant dictatorships in the world.
The people are being brutally suppressed, and the military dictatorship has not the slightest respect for human rights.
I heard Mr Marín say that critical dialogue has failed, so I am expecting a statement from the Commission saying that, now that we have totally failed in this area, economic sanctions will be applied.
But allow me to say something about the 54th session of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva.
Of course, no country is prevented from improving the situation of human rights in their own territory.
Given, in particular, the enlargement towards the east of the European Union, we should take these questions very seriously and measure our own attitude against the criteria which we apply to other countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have so often taken up the question of crimes against human rights perpetrated by the military junta in Burma, but we must return once again to the subject.
Both the United Nations and the USA along with many other countries have recently made renewed protests in this respect.
Aung San Suu Kyi was democratically elected by an overwhelming majority of more than 80 %, but is being prevented from taking over responsibility and is still under house arrest.
Political meetings are banned and there are continued attacks on ethnic minorities.
But multinational oil companies, including European ones such as Total, continue to support the military regime.
Therefore, it is important that Parliament again strongly condemns the dictatorship in Burma and demands that human rights are guaranteed so that Aung San Suu Kyi is released from house arrest and the UN's inspectors can unconditionally carry out their assignment.
It is appropriate that the Council has decided not to accept Burma's participation in the meeting between the EU and ASEAN until the human rights situation has improved in Burma.
But, within our bounds, the European Union and, more particularly, the European Parliament have contributed a great deal to the policy of defending human rights.
This is not the example that has been given by the European Union.
This attitude is exemplified by the current situation in Iraq and Portugal's own historical case of East Timor.
The maintenance of democracy and human rights is one of our highest principles.
Thank you, Mr Thomas Mann.
Mr President, I would just like to ask the President-in-Office if he would please be so kind as to answer my question regarding the importance of benchmarks by which we will judge the transition process in Nigeria.
I would also like to ask the Commission whether it understands what it means to say we are going to have a great deal of new NGO activity in Burma.
Mr President, the President-in-Office has attractive surveys, facts, figures on the countries we have discussed, but he has not given any answers.
My additional question is also about Burma.
Mr President, I must repeat a part of my question because the Council has not answered it.
I had asked whether the British oil company, Premier Oil, announced in September 1997 its intention to buy shares in a natural gas firm in Yetagun from the US firm Texaco after the latter decided to pull out of Burma.
I am referring in particular to paragraph 9 of the resolution which I am sure the President-in-Office has in front of him.
I answered the written questions but then, supplementary questions were raised by the original questioners.
I am not complaining about it, but I suggest I take the questions as we do in Question Time and answer them like that, as I do not propose to give any written answers in future, for the rest of the Presidency.
I am either going to answer the questions as they are asked or I am going to answer the written questions because what I am being asked to do is to go over the same ground again.
If Parliament wants Question Time to be longer and have less time for debate, that is fine with me.
The Treaty of Amsterdam takes the whole question of human rights further in the preamble and reinforces the need for upholding the highest standards of human rights for all EU countries.
When I visited some of those countries that wish to accede, in preparation for the UK Presidency, I raised those issues with them.
I did, in my initial introduction, refer to the suspension of preferential trading for Burmese agricultural and industrial exports into the European Union.
If other colleagues wish to join us in the Council on that, then it could be carried further.
We would certainly want to push that agenda at the Council and hope to achieve in the future support from our other colleagues.
The outcome of that meeting will be a basis for the Council to take decisions in this matter at a later Council meeting.
Mrs Maij-Weggen raised the question of the US link.
Indeed the Commission may be able to provide further information on that.
Mr President, in relation to the explanations which some Members were requesting from the Commission as regards Burma, there is no problem with NGOs.
So the absence of critical dialogue with the Burmese military junta is not going to prevent the Commission from continuing to develop its programmes within the country, of course, unless the military junta simply decides to stop them, but that would be a problem of a different nature.
On the subject of human rights, I was also asked whether the Commission could study the possibility of economic sanctions or embargos.
Also, as we have said, the Commission will not take the initiative in extending the 1980 agreement in Burma's favour.
There is a need to greatly improve the human rights policy, because it is clear that a situation arose last year which was very difficult to explain to public opinion - you all know what I am talking about.
Forgive me for that comment, but I think it is something which needed to be pointed out by the Commission, because we cannot of course implement active policies to sanction one particular company or another because in the end, as I am sure you will understand, that becomes unmanageable in political terms.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Situation in Albania The next item is the Council and the Commission statements relating to the situation in Albania and the results of the visit by the tripartite delegation.
Mr President, the European Union is committed to helping Albania achieve reconciliation and a return to normality.
The agreement with the IMF is an important step forward.
The Union encourages the continuing process of democratic reform including the judicial system.
It is important that a new constitution is adopted after a wide-ranging discussion and the Union welcomes the constructive approach Albania is playing in regional issues and, in particular, in Kosovo.
But the European Union is concerned at the continued refusal of important groups within the Albanian opposition to engage in the democratic process and to contribute to a common approach to rebuilding their country.
The Union calls on the Democratic Party and its allies to participate fully in Parliament including the adoption of a new Albanian Constitution.
The Union welcomes the visit of the troika parliamentarians to Tirana last month and urges the government and the opposition to live up to its recommendations.
It is important that the cooperation offered by Berisha is fulfilled.
Last December it announced projects of more than ECU 10 million to help vulnerable sections of the population.
Mr President, the Commission is of the exact same opinion as the UK Presidency with respect to the situation in Albania.
However, in questions of security the situation is still worrying, and the collecting up of weapons has not been very effective so far.
Most important of all, there are still major political tensions between the main parties, and it must be realized that, for the moment, Albania is still a long way from being a genuinely democratic culture.
As a result of the mission, the Democratic Party is finally considering returning to parliament, and the government seems to be firmly committed to helping with political normalization, but the pressure will certainly have to be kept up on all the parties in order to further political and parliamentary cooperation.
The Commission completely agrees with the proposals made by the tri-parliamentary mission.
And in the context of the third joint European Community-/Council of Europe programme for Albania, with a value of ECU 1.5 million, there is a desire to support the work of the Venice Commission towards the preparation of the constitution.
This programme also includes aid for training judges, developing the legislative framework, maintaining law, progress in human rights law, and reforming the judicial system and local administration.
As regards the agreed measures, an encouraging first result is the government's approval of a law to transform the state service into a superior auditing institution.
If implemented, all this legislation - which I am describing in detail because it is a condition for budgetary aid through the PHARE programme - would release a first sum of ECU 9 million.
Just last week there was a Commission identification mission to see how the country's political normalization is progressing.
This issue, which is very sensitive and has a huge social impact, will be thoroughly dealt with during the next coordination meeting, to be held on 23 February and due to be chaired by the World Bank in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund.
The cooperation of all the political powers is required to draw up a constitution.
Nevertheless, there was no specific or material follow-up to the declarations made immediately after our visit and, since our return, there has still been no follow-up within parliament and the Committee on Institutional Affairs as regards working together on the new constitution.
Simple declarations must be made: we need to insist that the Council and the Commission follow our tri-parliamentary mission with further measures.
I have heard talk of initiatives the Commission would support financially.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can subscribe fully to 98 % of your statement.
That does not happen very often, that our two sides are in such agreement, but on what you said about Albania I am almost completely in agreement with you.
We all listened and our conclusions took into consideration all points of view on the internal politics.
Mr President, the situation and lot of Albania has often been debated in this House, and frequently with some intensity.
Despite its various religious persuasions, however, the people of Albania have lived for centuries as a single entity.
Those people deserve better luck and wholehearted and devoted support from Europe's peoples and governments.
I would like to tell the President-in-Office of Council that we can also help a return to normality with a more complex, more fundamental policy.
The Albanian question cannot be separated from the other questions in a particularly delicate area.
One opposition party is currently saying that the agreement is a partial agreement, an agreement that can only be observed provided the Fatos Nano government nullifies all the measures it has taken since it came to power.
In view of all this, the EU should commit itself much further to offering economic aid and aid aimed at restoring democracy and control in the region.
Thank you very much, Mr Tamino.
The debate is closed.
In accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union, specifically Article N, the Treaty of Amsterdam shall come into force after being ratified by all the Member States, in accordance with the respective constitutional requirements.
There should be no undue influence using European taxpayers' money to promote propaganda forcing people to vote in favour of the Treaty.
It is up to the Irish people themselves to decide whether they want to vote in favour or against.
If Mr Henderson thinks the Presidency should have no opinion on this, then I would like know what the other ministers in the Council think about it.
It is not a matter for the Council to speculate whether there is any new alliance between the United Kingdom or the United States.
Question No 4 by Angela Kokkola (H-0008/98) Subject: Human cloning Public opinion is disturbed at the decision taken by the American scientist, Richard Seed, to undertake experiments aimed at creating human clones, which is morally and scientifically unacceptable.
I am pleased, in relation to Question No 3, to acknowledge the important influence and responsibility of the Council on this matter.
The question of bioethics, and in particular protection of human dignity and of the individual, is a key consideration in Community research policy.
The Community's Fourth Framework Programme on research contains an explicit provision that no support will be provided to projects which may contravene the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of the United Nations or the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine.
The provisions on biomedical ethics provide that no research into modification of the genetic constitution of human beings, or into human cloning, may be carried out.
The Commission's proposal for the fifth research Framework Programme would extend the scope of this exclusion.
The proposal is still under consideration in the Council but the honourable Member may rest assured that the rights and dignity of human beings will continue to be the guiding principle behind all decisions.
I am aware of the concerns of the honourable Member on this matter and, indeed, of many others in this House and elsewhere.
The Council shares the honourable Members' concern about the effect on the situation in Burundi of the flow of arms from third countries and has noted the resolution on Burundi adopted by the European Parliament at its 15-19 December 1997 part-session.
The Council has issued similar statements and declarations about the situation in Burundi, most recently on 7 January 1998.
The Council has also noted the resolution on a code of conduct on arms exports adopted by the European Parliament at its 12-16 January 1998 part-session.
The European Council in Amsterdam on 16-17 June 1997 underlined the vital role of concerted international efforts towards proper regulation of arms exports and called for the development of a coherent arms export control policy throughout the Union on the basis of the common criteria identified in the conclusions of the European Councils of 29 June 1991 and 26-27 June 1992.
The text is in two parts.
Firstly, an elaboration of the eight common criteria agreed in 1991 and 1992 in line with the United Kingdom's national criteria which were then announced by the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom on 28 July 1997.
Initial reactions have been strongly supportive and the aim is for the code to be adopted by a Council declaration during this Presidency.
I should like to return to the issue of Burundi, which my question addressed.
In my view - and I hope it would be the Council's view as well - it would assist us in our efforts to stop arms trafficking into Burundi and, indeed, within the Great Lakes area.
I thank the honourable Member for her kind tribute.
It is always particularly pleasurable to attempt to answer her questions.
On the specific question that she raised, I am not aware of any European Union country that knowingly exports arms to Burundi and would block any measure taken to prevent such sales.
I know there are other questions on the agenda today about the overall question of arms control and I may be straying into that territory, but the reason why the Presidency believes that the conclusion of a European Union agreement on arms is particularly important is, among other things, to attempt to deal with the situation which has been suggested by the honourable Member.
Question No 11 by Elisabeth Schroedter (H-0116/98) Subject: Introduction of an EU code of conduct on the arms trade by the British Presidency Britain and France have been developing a common text for the code which has now been agreed.
The need for further harmonization of national arms export policies has been raised at various levels within the Council.
The European Council in Amsterdam on 16-17 June 1997 underlined the vital role of concerted international efforts towards proper regulation of arms exports.
It therefore called for renewed and sustained attention in the framework of the common foreign and security policy to developing responsible and coherent arms export control policies throughout the Union on the basis of the common criteria identified in the conclusions of the European Councils of 29 June 1991 and 26-27 June 1992.
These criteria include, notably, respect for human rights in the country of destination.
In this context, as I have previously indicated, the United Kingdom, in conjunction with France, has put forward a draft text for a European Union code of conduct setting high common standards for arms exports by Member States.
The text is in two parts: an elaboration of the eight common criteria agreed in 1991 and 1992 in line with the United Kingdom's national criteria announced by the United Kingdom Foreign Secretary on 28 July 1997.
Initial reactions have been strongly supportive and the aim is for the code to be adopted by Council declaration during the United Kingdom's Presidency.
The honourable Members may also be aware that the Italian delegation submitted to the Council at its 10 November 1997 session a suggestion on the implementation of the eight common criteria.
As regards this proposed code of conduct, there are quite a number of deficiencies in it, for example the fact that only arms exporting countries will be able to call the shots on who buys their arms if this code of conduct is adopted.
There are many oppressive regimes, such as Turkey and Indonesia, which could take advantage of this.
I should like the President-in-Office to say that the Council is going to address these issues and will bring these points of concern into a code of conduct, otherwise it is just window-dressing.
There are a lot of points raised in the honourable lady's questions.
This code is a major step forward which concentrates the minds of European Union countries on what their responsibilities are in relation to the sale of arms.
It provides for a transparency so that those countries know what is happening in relation to the arm sales of other European Union countries.
It also provides a mechanism for preventing one country selling arms to a third country when that third country has already been denied an importation facility by another European Union country.
There is now a huge moral pressure on all the European Union Members, assuming that a satisfactory code is concluded, to deal with this matter in a completely new fashion.
The question of the criteria which decides whether or not an arms sale takes place is essentially a separate matter.
Where the arms are likely to be used, for example, for internal repression or external aggression, then those arms sales should not take place.
It is an opportunity for any Member State, or any lobby within a Member State, to look at ways in which the code can be more effective and make their views known.
The aim of having a policy at European Union level is to try to have a consistency across the Union with a view to eventually having a wider consistency outside the European Union which is equally as important.
As mentioned earlier, the aim of the code is to try to bring about a consistency across the European level.
The important thing about the code is that it establishes a common criteria and a way of ensuring that those common criteria are applied, although it must always include an element of judgement.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
I can say to the honourable gentlemen that I agree with him that it is important to have a multilateral approach which is why this code has been proposed by the Presidency in the first place.
Thank you very much, Mr von Habsburg.
In any case, I am grateful for your cooperation, as always, in improving Question Time.
The criterion should be the purpose of the arms, not the state of the domestic arms industry and that is a very important criterion which is built into the code.
The problem of the current situation where there is no code which is effective arises when one country says 'we do not believe that arms should be sold to a third country because of the likelihood of internal repression or external aggression, but if we do not sell them somebody else will and it will be trading our jobs for somebody else's jobs and therefore we should not make the decision initially to block the sale' .
The purpose of the code is to get over that very important issue because the arms industry is a big industry in a number of European Union countries.
There need to be other industrial policies which Member States adopt, or which might be part of an employment strategy for the Union itself, which would also address the needs of those workers who are no longer able to get employment in handling those export orders and who have to look for redeployment conversion and so on.
Can I say to the President-in-Office that I welcome as a good first step the code of conduct for the arms trade which is designed to prevent arms being used for either internal repression or external aggression.
Judgments have to be made not only on the likelihood of those arms being used for internal repression or external aggression but the likelihood of where that will happen.
In other words, will the arms be resold to some other party and, when they are resold, would there be a high likelihood of internal repression or external aggression?
It may be that an obligation should be written into the code that where a Member State believes there is a further follow-through trade in arms, that information should be made available to European Union Member States.
I too welcome the UK Presidency's proposal for establishing an EU Code of Conduct on the arms trade.
It is the logical development and follow-on from the United Kingdom's new ethical foreign policy and, although nothing is ever good enough for the Greens, I wanted the UK President-in-Office to know that the majority of Members in this House think this is a very serious and historic first step.
I want to know if the Presidency will take back to the troika the eagerness this House has for consultation, for being able to follow the guidelines, for being able to see where best practice is developing as the code is progressed throughout the year.
I am very aware of them myself, as there is a large tank factory on the edge of my old constituency back in Newcastle-upon-Tyne in northern England.
The people working in that factory and the sub-contractors are very aware of this difficult problem.
I wish that those in this House who have doubts would recognize the importance of that point.
The Council has no knowledge of the events referred to in the honourable Member's question.
It would, however, take this opportunity to point out that it is primarily for the Member State concerned to ensure compliance with Community legislation in its territory and, where appropriate, for the Commission, pursuant to Article 155 of the Treaty, to take the necessary measures to ensure that any infringements of that legislation are duly punished.
I thank the President-in-Office for his most helpful answer.
I know that the Presidency shares my concern about animal welfare but I recognize its dilemma which is that it operates as the Council while the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties.
We fear that it will occur again on 7 April, although the Commissioner himself informed this House that the infringements that took place last year were in breach of regulations and promised to act.
Mr President, after your kind remarks and further kind remarks from the honourable Member I am going to have to have a rather large dining-table the next time I am in Strasbourg.
I believe there is an awareness already of the issue he raised with me this afternoon and, on the basis of that information, it should be possible for action to follow.
I am not so sure that Mr Watts is going to want to have dinner with me after my supplementary.
The Minister is well aware that much of the public outrage in the United Kingdom over these kinds of issues is synthetic indignation manufactured by groups on the extreme right.
Last year in France there were problems around this festival but they were much exaggerated by people like Jean-Marie Le Pen's Front national , a man who has more concern about animal welfare than the death of 6 000 000 Jews in the Second World War.
The Commission has an important role to play in relation to European law in that regard.
Question No 15 by Jaime Valdivielso de Cué (H-0026/98) Subject: Consumer protection In view of the announcement that one of the priorities of the British Presidency will be consumer protection, can the Council state what measures will be proposed and what their orientation will be?
Progress in these areas will help consumers in all countries.
The remedies in the directive - repair, replacement, reduction in price, refund - are easy to understand.
We want the April Consumer Council to examine this on the basis of a Commission report.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think it is interesting the way a framework has been developed for possible consumer rights or measures, as regards guarantees, basic rights, legislation, improvements to the system and consumer advice.
But could you please state what specific measures the British Presidency plans to take in favour of consumers?
This is a very important principle and I believe it is one that will receive a large area of support from consumers and citizens throughout the whole of the European Union.
Question No 17 by Jan Andersson (H-0062/98) Subject: Tax-free sales The Council has decided that tax-free sales should end in 1999.
As the honourable Members will know, when the Council adopted directives abolishing fiscal frontiers from 1 January 1993, it decided to put an end to tax and duty-free sales for intra-European Community passengers because retaining such sales would be inconsistent with an internal market without frontiers.
Knowing this decision would require major changes in the sectors concerned, Council provided for a lengthy adjustment period from 1 January 1993 to 30 June 1999 during which tax and duty-free sales for intra-EC travellers could be retained.
The Council currently has no plans to revisit its decision.
These matters were discussed thoroughly in the early 1990s when the debate took place.
Regarding the question of taxation, yes, there are, as the honourable Member will know, different levels of consumption taxes in different countries within the European Union.
The Presidency has no intention to revisit this issue.
It would be open to any of those new governments to raise the issue at the Council of Ministers.
I can say to the honourable Member that it would be a matter for the operators to decide whether or not they felt that a subsidy was necessary.
It would then be a matter for the Finnish and Swedish governments to decide if a subsidy should be given to them, and it would then be for the Commission to decide whether or not the subsidy was in accordance with the rules of the European Union.
I wish to congratulate the President-in-Office on the brevity with which he answers questions.
The British Presidency's position is determined by the British government through its relationship with other European partners at all levels.
We are always happy to discuss any issue that any responsible Member wishes to raise.
The President-in-Office mentioned that the decision was taken some years ago leaving operators six or seven years to phase out duty-free.
I have to say to the honourable Member that, like colleagues who raised matters at the beginning of this discussion - albeit from a different viewpoint - he is revisiting issues which were discussed in the early 1990s.
The Council has no further comments to make at this time.
I will try to be helpful to the President-in-Office by providing him with some arguments as to why this matter should be revisited.
Thirdly, unemployment is now our top priority; it was not back in 1991.
Although I accept that he cannot change the Council's position tonight, but could he not tonight agree to find space on a Council agenda to allow an opportunity for our Irish friends to put this issue to the Council with that fresh information so that it can be reviewed in the light of that information?
As far as I am aware, there was no link in the decision between the change in the regulations on duty-free and any consideration of taxation.
They are two separate issues with no link.
Different Member States within the European Union will have different views on those taxation questions.
It would be open to any government within the European Union to raise the issue in Ecofin or at the General Affairs Council if they were so minded.
The Presidency considers that environmental protection is an integral part of the development process.
In particular we will support their efforts to prepare plans and policies for sound management of their natural resources and national strategies for sustainable development.
The intermediate targets for sustainable development, based on United Nations conventions and resolutions, anticipate the implementation of these national strategies in all countries by the year 2005 so as to ensure that current trends in the loss of environmental resources are effectively reversed at both global and national levels by the year 2015.
Relevant action planned under the Presidency of the European Union will include endeavouring to secure commitments from the Commission and Member States to promote national strategies for sustainable development in developing countries and to adopt measurable targets, especially in sustainable development and poverty reduction, and to help increase the effectiveness of these funds.
A Council regulation was recently adopted on environmental measures in developing countries in the context of sustainable development, along with a resolution on environmental assessment in development cooperation.
The Commission has an important role in identifying how they can monitor schemes where there is an environmental aspect to them, and how they can ensure that the best environmental practice is involved.
All of us have an opportunity, when we begin to renegotiate the Lomé mandate, to include a consideration of the important matters which she raises.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Council has now expired, Questions Nos 20 to 59 will be dealt with in writing.
The Commission promised to publish results of a study they commissioned last October.
So I ask the House to review the results of this report, to review the apparent results of liberalization, bearing in mind that the social effects of that liberalization have still to be taken into account.
We have some cheaper fares, but we have also some increased fares.
We have some increased competition; we have some new airlines coming forward; but we have a decline in safety and we have some frightening alliances on the horizon.
If we look at cheaper fares, then several no-frills airlines are offering cheaper fares such as Easyjet, Debonair, Virgin Express.
Even British Airways has set up a separate company to offer such no-frills deals.
However, these lower fares must not be at the expense of cutting safety or worsening working conditions.
This was not a good move in terms of safety and it was a disastrous move for them as far as PR is concerned.
But we cannot - and I, as rapporteur, cannot - assess the impact of the third liberalization package until we know the social consequences of this stage of liberalization.
National air transport markets were opened up, competition is allowed, even if it is sometimes a little bit strange that an airline from country A has flown cabotage for years in country B without covering its own costs, without making a profit and survives.
I would also like to say something about competition and about the alliances.
In this respect, we must ask the Commission - and Karel Van Miert will probably take this into account - to regard the alliances not only as a danger but also as an opportunity for the European airlines to join in global competition.
There are in fact still too many problems for the passengers and for the airlines, because air control in Europe is simply organized on a pre-Europe basis.
The report looks at all the main problems involved in deregulation.
This is highlighted in points 1 and 6 of the report.
It is just as important to realize the social and employment effects of deregulation in a new competitive situation.
And so, Commissioner, we come to allocating slots.
The problems of air traffic control and air corridors may well be equally interesting.
The British Presidency of the Transport Council talks of a people's Europe.
I would make a plea to the Commissioner tonight on the question of new entrants.
Perhaps the Commissioner could consider that in the context of his slot-allocation proposals.
As the Member representing Stansted Airport in North Essex and South Suffolk, I particularly welcome the new entrant, the British Airways carrier which is to be called 'Go' , to operate from Stansted Airport.
All of us would like to see a people's Europe and true liberalization in air transport and I hope that both this Commissioner and the British Presidency will complete the single market by June, giving a greater choice of routes and carriers and lower fares for travellers.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the Commissioner and to thank the rapporteur for his report.
The free movement of labour is one of the basic tenets on which the European Union relies and it is therefore up to us, the elected representatives of the European Union, to ensure that all our citizens have assess to affordable and speedy transport between the Member States of the Union.
Through the air transport liberalization programme the European Union has taken steps to create the climate necessary for airlines to offer competitively priced airfares to the citizens of Europe.
The air transport liberalization programme, which culminated in full liberalization of the market in 1997, has undoubtedly brought many benefits to consumers both in terms of access and cost.
However, a commercially successful Irish airline competing in the European market, Ryanair, is currently engaged in a protracted trade dispute with its employees arising from the company's refusal to recognize or negotiate with the trade union chosen by some of the employees to represent them or to cooperate with the national industrial conciliation procedures which have been established to resolve such disputes.
Ryanair, whose owners and senior managers had been very substantial financial beneficiaries of air transport liberalization, must immediately enter into dialogue with these employees who seek to be represented by a trade union of their choice and to utilize the resources of the national procedures that exist.
Could I call on the Commission to conclude and publish as a matter of urgency its promised assessment of the social impact of liberalization of the air transport sector, including the right to free negotiation, free association and collective bargaining.
Mr President, I would like to draw the Commissioner's attention to a few things which to my mind require some improvements in this sector.
I believe that if in Europe we are going to have competition in the aviation sector under the kind of circumstances we have at the moment, and in particular the environmental circumstances, where there are no common standards on noise levels on and around airports; companies start to compete with each other at the expense of the people because certain airports can take on extra passengers, because they ignore environmental and noise standards, while others do not.
In a context which is subject to strong competitive pressure, notably from the United States, the European Union should aim to give priority to cooperation in joint developments, rather than using the logic of economic warfare.
At a more basic level, I believe that we need a different dynamic in air transport, based on public management of this sector, in order to promote mutually advantageous cooperation, to encourage balanced national and regional development, to develop social rights and employment, to lift the restrictions on unions, in short, to guarantee everyone's right to transport provided in good conditions.
Integrating environmental issues into all policy areas of the European Union will be a major task, but one that we have to face.
We believe we can deliver a more sustainable transport policy, and we are all agreed that it is essential to cut CO2 emissions from transport, which are growing faster than in any other sector.
And let no one claim that air transport liberalization and increase in pollution from aeroplanes are not related.
The resolution predicts an annual increase in air traffic of 6 or 7 %.
Still, the structure of the aviation market in Europe has altered fundamentally over the past ten years.
In the European Union market the large airlines are regrouping.
A number of associations have grown modestly, and the market has become more dynamic.
The Commission's report deals primarily with efficiency and competition in aviation.
In effect, the system has had positive results.
In some ways, competition has been more focused on the ground services and airport services than on the specific system of airline liberalization.
It would be advisable for air space for the civilian system to be increasingly more available.
The aspect of air traffic control has also been pointed out.
It is possible to make marked savings and establish strong coordination in the control sector.
To conclude, Commissioner, I am in favour of the measures and I believe that the next action relating to airport duties will provide us with further capacity to face the market and to support the social mechanisms providing guarantees for workers.
We need to open up to competition and create the conditions for substantially more players than there are today in this sector.
I have proposed a special amendment, Amendment No 3, which is based on the idea that competition must take place through socially acceptable methods.
Mr Seal's report highly recommends many of the positive aspects of the aviation industry in recent years.
Among the blessed, he mentions Ryanair, now the most profitable airline in Europe, more profitable as a percentage of turnover than the giant BA.
Another company much smaller, much bigger are paying considerably higher wages than Ryanair.
This has been a very interesting debate.
It is inevitable that while some of the main effects of liberalization were identified in our 1996 communication, others have only become clearly apparent since, as airlines have increasingly taken advantage of the possibilities offered.
As we acknowledged in 1996, much remained to be done to ensure that the potential created by liberalization was fulfilled and fair competition conditions were achieved.
I noticed Iberia's results in The Financial Times this morning and took some satisfaction from that.
Regrettably, it is also on that basis that we had to conclude that Olympic Airways was not complying with the essential conditions set out at the time of the agreement with the Greek Government in 1994.
In recent weeks we also had to take a very strict attitude towards the Italian Government and Alitalia who were in breach of basic conditions that were included in the Commission's state aid decision of last July.
The recent experience in the case of Alitalia is a further demonstration of that.
If Members believe, therefore, that they have heard of complaints that have not been notified to us, they should say so; not to us, but to those who have voiced concerns to them.
It is obvious that if the Community does not take the opportunity to negotiate a comprehensive air-service agreement with the USA, United States Airlines will, by design or default, be disproportionate beneficiaries of our single market, of our liberalization, when our airlines have no effective comparable rights of access and operation to the United States' single market.
Meanwhile, as the House will know, we opened investigations into three existing transatlantic airline alliances and into one proposed alliance in 1996.
Recognition of that has, for instance, prompted the Commission to take initiatives on air-traffic management - which was mentioned by some honourable Members -, on groundhandling services - mentioned by other honourable Members - and on airport challenges - again referred to by some contributors to the debate.
Mr Seal is right to point out that our communication did not devote much space to the social aspects of liberalization.
Although it would also be true to say that the Commission has in other respects been particularly attentive to the social impact of liberalization measures.
And since we received the results of that study within the last week, I can firmly express the hope that the final report will be available to this Parliament and to the general public in April.
It is already clear, of course, that civil aviation has been the only transport mode in which employment increased between 1990 and 1995, and although the total growth was modest - about 0.4 % per annum over the period - it is worth noting that was achieved despite general economic recession and despite extensive airline restructuring, which has, in some cases, caused what turns out to be a temporary reduction in staff.
The increased effectiveness and competitiveness of airlines has the effect, of course, of again stimulating demand for employment - and that is good news for everybody.
To give practical evidence of that: we have in recent months proposed a directive to establish safety assessment of thirdcountry aircraft operating in the European Union, and we have published our proposal for the establishment of a European civil aviation safety agency.
In addition, outside the Community the Commission makes sustained efforts to secure and to maintain the effective implementation of ICAO standards.
Meanwhile we are also addressing environmental aviation issues, which were referred to by some of the contributors to the debate, through the communication on carbon dioxide emissions and transport which we shall be publishing in the spring and, in addition, more specifically in our study on the implication of the impositions of a kerosene tax for civil aviation and the environment.
These actions, in so far as consumers are concerned, should reinforce the requirements of information and transparency that Mr Seal's report is rightly seeking.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the safety training of cabin crews in civil aviation is almost a component of the subject which we have just discussed, or a consequence of it.
The Commission could in this respect have taken the terms of the JAA changed or unchanged and transferred them into Community law - quite simply in accordance with Regulation No 3922/91.
That is, in our view, an important part of this work.
There is in fact a risk, which has just been discussed, that the airlines in the thick of the competition battle will regard these very training costs as variable costs and correspondingly perhaps try to economize in this area, which in my opinion would be unfortunate.
In short, the proposal is an ideal response to technical and administrative questions, to social challenges in the free market and to safety claims associated with the profession of cabin crew.
I know it is very late but I believe that is the directive we are discussing, otherwise I am in the wrong room.
Around 75 % of aircraft are involved in accidents during approach, landing or take-off.
Research indicates that around 90 % of all aircraft accidents could be survivable.
I am confident that if we had better, faster and more effective evacuation, we could save lives - as many as 300 a year.
Current regulations, for example, specify that an aircraft must be evacuated within 90 seconds with just half the exits open.
In 1994 research was carried out by both the CAA and the FAA which clearly indicated that the difference between getting out of the aircraft or not depended on assertive, highly-trained and highly-effective cabin crew.
That is the reason why we are very pleased to support this proposal for a directive on the training of cabin crew.
That is why we have tabled Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17, to ensure this measure applies to all the cabin crew.
If you speak to the cabin crew themselves, they do not want to create a situation where, possibly, some airline operators could differentiate between cabin crew and create a two-tier system.
In Amendment No 13 we propose annual medical checks for cabin crew.
Again we think this is perfectly reasonable, when your life is effectively in not just the pilot's hands but also in the hands of the cabin crews.
Finally, Amendment No 18 talks about annual training for cabin crews, including things like fire-fighting and the use of life rafts.
In conclusion, as travel demand increases, the number of aircraft increase, the number of risks increase, it is vital that safety standards throughout the Community are harmonized.
This is all of the utmost importance, and the more players operating in an increasingly liberalized air transport market in future, the more important it will become.
Mr President, Commissioner, the completion of the internal market for civil aviation has increased the need for international agreements on safety standards for European Union countries.
The proposal on safety requirements for cabin crews has been prepared and accepted within the Joint Aviation Authority to which eighteen European countries belong.
The Commission believes it should add to the JAA proposal a competence certificate for cabin crews.
Recognition of training in one Member State by aviation authorities in other Union Member States was meant to improve the mobility of cockpit crews.
I believe that it is possible to maintain a proper level of safety on aeroplanes without seeing all members of the crew as safety personnel.
Mr President, firstly we all know national provisions on safety training for cabin crew vary widely across the European Union.
As you have heard earlier, in Ireland we have the situation where Ryanair baggage handlers are on strike simply because they want to be represented by a trade union.
Mr President, this proposal is obviously linked to the measures to support the process of liberalization in the air transport sector with the aim of ensuring high safety standards.
I congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work, and the Commission for its excellent proposal.
Currently, the joint aviation authorities seek to achieve cabin crew safety by placing responsibility for safety throughout an airline clearly on the operator.
The directive waters down this responsibility and, therefore, may just possibly undermine cabin crew safety.
The Commissioner, this evening, referred to a number of proposals, including that to set up the European Civil Aviation Safety Agency and efforts to improve the implementation of ICAO standards throughout the European Union.
I would make a plea to the Commission this evening to reach an early agreement with the Council on the setting-up of this European Civil Aviation Safety Agency to ensure that safety both in Europe and worldwide is secured.
The figures show - and were discussed in a conference in Maastricht today - that over the last ten years 70 % of all accidents have involved carriers accounting for only 16 % of total air traffic.
I am delighted to support this report.
But I hope that the Commissioner can satisfy me that urgent action will be taken by the Council of Ministers and through his good offices.
In a growing and changing environment such as civil aviation, it is obviously essential that the highest possible safety standards are maintained.
I know that honourable Members share that objective, as they have demonstrated again in the course of this debate.
Secondly, just as a point of reassurance, but certainly not in any spirit of complacency, our region of the world sees 30 % of the world's air traffic movements, but only 10 % of air traffic accidents take place in this region.
In practice, cabin crew automatically receive conversion training when changing from one aircraft type to another and the obligations for and the regulation of recurrent training are laid down in Article 5 and in the annexes to this directive.
The Commission cannot support Amendment No 3 either, nor the new Amendment No 13, which specify the regularity of medical checks.
There remains just one amendment, Amendment No 18, which, again, I regret to say I cannot accept.
I would say to Miss McIntosh, when she considers that there is a possibility of reducing the level of requirements below that of the JAA, I would refer her to page 2 of the proposal.
Making a further change would add an unnecessary burden on operators without bringing any greater safety guarantees.
In conclusion, I would like again to thank Parliament for its work.
Surely if it is good enough for us and our institutions, it should be good enough for cabin crew members.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The proposal for a directive and the report which I submitted have as their objective the establishment of technical requirements applicable to motor vehicles and to trailers, guaranteeing transport by road.
Certain requirements were already put in place by the 1994 directive regarding the construction of vehicles which transport hazardous goods by road.
This new directive sets down specific clauses for the construction of vehicles.
This harmonization has the advantage of preventing a Member State from prohibiting the sale, registration or entry into service of motor vehicles which have already been approved in other Member States.
Only one amendment to this proposal has been tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
No other amendment has been tabled and I think that this report does not represent any particular problem and, Mr President I think we have a broad consensus on this subject.
Mr President, it is very clear that this proposal for a directive has been in the process of formulation, basically, to plug the two most blatant loopholes in the legislation referring to the manufacture, transport, commercialization, use and maintenance of all transportable pressure equipment which will fulfil the requirements of the ADR and RID agreements.
Such agreements, as you know ladies and gentlemen, are intended to strengthen safety in the transport of such equipment and ensure free circulation of the same in the common Community market.
Mr President, this second report seeks to recognize two registration plates for vehicles and their trailers.
There is a real legal vacuum in terms of recognition of registration plates by the Member States of the European Union.
This proposal for a regulation from the Commission aims to overcome this.
The sign incorporated in the number plate (Community model) was developed in collaboration with national experts, following a European Parliament resolution of 1988 calling for the incorporation of the European flag in registration plates.
Moreover, some countries which ratified the Convention of Vienna do not recognize this Community sign, and through their police they report drivers of foreign vehicles which display it alone.
Mr President, eight amendments to this report have been tabled.
This is not the case, however, for the amendments from Brian Simpson, because here they seem to me to complicate and weigh down the proposal for a regulation and my report.
Nor can I accept the amendment from Mr Cornelissen and Mr Pronk, because I think its impact goes beyond the framework of this report and the legal framework of the European Union.
However, as the Commission will be aware, motorists throughout Europe are much more European than perhaps we think.
Therefore I would like to draw the attention of the Commissioner and Members to our Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6 and 7 which recognise the reality that many motorists do not like the Vienna Convention symbol, the rather boring black letters on a white background, but prefer the European symbol of the white and yellow letters with the gold stars on a blue background in accordance with their particular national registration.
The Community model for the distinguishing sign of the Member State licensing of vehicles and trailers in internal Community traffic, let us call it the European nationality plate, is long overdue.
In view of this fact, I could even understand if citizens from third countries were doubtful of the ability and/or seriousness of the efforts of EU to build a political union.
For me, too, it is desirable that third countries, above all the countries of the European Economic Area but also the associated countries of central and eastern Europe give legally binding recognition to the Community model.
This is a very important matter, not only from a technical viewpoint - although to me as an engineer it appears thoroughly interesting, - but it also as regards the question of safety of everything which travels on our roads.
This legislation, as the House will know, is an important step towards harmonization of the laws of Member States on typeapproval procedures relating to vehicles carrying dangerous goods.
That would, of course, be permissible, as we see evidenced by the fact that in the Republic of Ireland the name of the region is given on the numberplate in Erse and in Germany the Land badge is also shown conventionally on the numberplates.
Secondly, it does not have any suggestion that all vehicles must show the symbol of the country of registration.
I know that Members of this House understand that and I would like, therefore, to respond to the amendments tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
First, we welcome Amendment No 2 and the first part of Amendment No 3, which extends the coverage of the regulation to trailers.
We can also accept the second part of Amendment No 3, which refers to the position of the distinguishing sign on the left-hand side of the numberplate.
In addition, we can accept in principle the last part of Amendment No 3 that refers to other official signs.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 1, which is intended to introduce a requirement to affix the distinguishing sign of registration on the left-hand side of the plate.
However, I have to tell the House that these amendments do not meet the need to lay down the technical specifications with sufficient detail to achieve mutual recognition.
Our proposal makes mutual recognition possible precisely because the sign is issued under the control of the national authorities as part of an official numberplate, and that would clearly not be the case for the separate sticker.
This must be the first time in history and I am sure there is a very good reason for it.
As the House will know, by adopting Directives 94/55 and 96/49, the Council has already ensured a high level of safety in the movement of transportable equipment by defining common rules on design, materials, filling and periodic testing of such equipment.
The current situation is that transportable pressure equipment, for instance gas cylinders, moved from one Member State to another and then used cannot be refilled in the receiving Member State and then transported back to the first Member State without being retested, inspected and approved in the receiving country.
A further effect of this proposal is to ensure free circulation of transportable pressure equipment in the internal market, a facility which is not possible now because Directive 97/23 on pressure equipment excludes transportable pressure equipment from the scope.
When I conclude my time in the Commission, I can always get a job as the person who announces the lottery results on BBC television on Saturday nights.
Amendment No 9 deletes Type C inspection bodies and there are related editorial changes in Amendments Nos 5, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28.
Amendment No 1 is rejected since that 'whereas' clause is limited to the main objective of the proposal: transport safety.
Amendments Nos 2 and 3 are primarily editorial changes but they are rejected because the original text is more accurate.
Amendment No 14 is rejected because the limitation solely to existing Type B inspection bodies is too restrictive and would prevent new Type B inspection bodies from entering the market.
Amendment Nos 16 and 20 are rejected since the Commission considers that frequency of controls upon relevant bodies and the details rightly fall under the competence of the Member States.
Amendment No 22 is also rejected because it would not allow the same undertaking to be engaged in maintenance and periodic inspection and is therefore, in the view of the Commission, too restrictive.
Naturally I am pleased to note that the large number of amendments manifests the attention to detail that the proposal has received from the Transport Committee rather than any real differences of substance between European Parliament and the Commission on the issue.
I must say that history is being broken for the second time in the course of this debate.
It astonishes me, Commissioner, that you do not have a simple answer for a simple question, for normally you have an answer for everything, prepared or otherwise.
I assume that you will follow up the question asked by Mr Ferber.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
