Mr President, this concerns item 4 of yesterday's Minutes and Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure, on the duties of the Conference of Presidents.
Paragraph 5 says: "The Conference of Presidents shall draw up the draft agenda of Parliament's part-sessions' .
This was the case with my report on the partsession which was discussed this week, and it was especially the case with your own report on the voting system.
Mr President, I would just like to say that my name does not need to be recorded.
Mr Hallam, I totally agree.
Firstly, the committee deleted Amendment No 4 concerning Article 4, paragraph 1(b) of the Council proposal.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today for improved legal cooperation in criminal cases.
Reding report (A4-0121/98) It is good that the question of revoking driving licences is being dealt with in a convention and not through harmonizing legislation.
We are therefore delighted that, at their meeting of 30 January, the EU justice and home affairs ministers invited their counterparts from the candidate countries to sign "pre-membership' pacts on combating organized crime.
If this proposal means that a system of financial aid needs to be set up, at the European level, to support Member States which are experiencing serious difficulties with regard to the control of their external borders, we are in agreement.
The EU cannot demand, amongst other things, that the applicant countries modify their visa policies with third party countries to bring them into line with the EU's before they even join the EU, and before the EU's provisions in this area under the Amsterdam Treaty are accepted.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of Mr Posselt's report.
Our most important consideration is to ensure that the candidate countries of central and eastern Europe should be given financial and political backup in their efforts to develop democratic authorities.
Applicant countries should be assured of their inclusion in the European Union once they have fulfilled the objectives set out in the individual partnership agreements.
It plays an important role in the development of efficient transport networks within the European Union.
The trade unions are aware of the risks and oppose the Commission's proposal to abolish duty-free sales on 30 June 1999.
In any event, a decision should not be made until the study on the economic and social impact of the abolition of duty-free sales is published, and until there has been a debate in the European Parliament, as called for by the compromise resolution adopted by this House.
There are already two systems which operate on a world-wide basis: the American "global positioning system' , known as GPS; and the Russian global satellite navigation system called GLONAS.
In a global situation in which the market for satellite navigation could be dominated by the United States, this agreement will undoubtedly help to ensure that European interests are protected, and that it is easier in practice to realize the full potential of satellite navigation technology.
That is why I referred in my report to an action plan for the financing of such a project.
So in order to ensure the involvement of a large number of collaborators in the development of a global satellite navigation system, a coherent strategy with a financial perspective should be formulated as soon as possible.
So I believe the plan of action which Mrs Langenhagen has included in her report is extraordinarily important.
This letter, dated 6 March, states amongst other things that 'improvements, if any, could be achieved in a much cheaper way' .
Mr Malerba, I think you are more qualified than most people to speak to us about these issues, from the heights from which you have seen these events.
That is the point of Brigitte Langenhagen's report, which proposes an agreement between the European Commission, the European Space Agency and EUROCONTROL for the development of a global navigation satellite system.
We have a clear choice today between an autonomous, independent European system, at an estimated cost ranging from ECU 400 million to ECU 4 billion, or cooperation based on the existing American GPS and Russian GLONAS systems.
In this respect, I agree with Commissioner Kinnock, who is afraid that if we do not reach a decision soon, we will remain in the slow lane as far as progress is concerned.
Mr President, the agreement between the European Community, the European Space Agency and EUROCONTROL aims to make a European contribution towards the development of a global navigation satellite system, or GNSS.
The advantages which the satellite navigation systems provide are sensational.
I believe this decision will have very important implications for competition in Europe, and that competition in this market is urgently needed on a worldwide basis as well.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The global navigation system seeks to organize cooperation between the EU and the European Space Agency and the European Organization for the Safety of Air Navigation.
We are now faced with either developing this new mode of transport control or continuing to stand by all the systems of the past.
The purpose of the report is to set out the provision of the financial contribution from the European Union, which will not exceed the sum of US$ 100 million, for a total estimated cost of US$ 750 million.
Paragraph 55 sets out the information which should be made available to Parliament by the Commission and the EBRD during the implementation of the plan.
But we have also got to note that the Russian connection is not something that can be ignored, because through the SYNERGY and TACIS programmes the links between the Union and the Ukraine in terms of oil, gas and electricity are gathering pace and are linked closely with the adjacent countries.
The recently appointed Minister for Atomic Energy in Russia, Evgeni Adamov, is known to some of us and we know that he places considerable importance on improving the safe operation of nuclear power stations and attaches importance to collaboration between Russian scientists and those in the European Union.
That is why it is important that in implementing the Plan the EBRD should take every opportunity to ensure that the implementation of the project brings as much work as possible to the local people in Slavutich, the nearby town where most of the workers involved at the plant live.
It is also important to recognize that there will be no complete closure of the plant until the second reactor at Khmelnitsky and the fourth reactor at Rovno are completed.
Without that loan finance, K2 and R4 will not be completed to western safety standards, but they will be completed.
Parliament has an important role to make sure that this project goes ahead to time and to budget and I have suggested in the report that it might be expedient that two experts might be appointed to help in our assessment of the work.
That proposal is contained in paragraph 64 and I hope that the Budgets Committee will take this idea up at a later date.
The Commission's proposal is of course primarily about funding, in accordance with the donor conference which was held in New York last year.
However, we still have to decide how much money will be provided from the TACIS funds, as the Commission's proposal merely refers to a maximum of ECU 100 million.
During the 1998 budget procedure, we were confronted with the fact that the sum of ECU 100 million was to be made available for the safety of the sarcophagus as "front loading' , in other words immediately.
That is why we have explicitly recorded that the European Union for its part is ready to make ECU 100 million available, as contractually agreed, and to do so in the next two years, 1998 and 1999.
In so doing, our intention was - as we also informed the Commission - to prevent the Commission from on the one hand redesigning the TACIS programme as basically a nuclear safety programme, and on the other hand reducing the large arrears in the TACIS programme with a cheque for ECU 100 million.
Of course, our ultimate aim must be to close down the Chernobyl reactor, and I would like to remind you all that there was already a shelter, even before 1986 when the accident occurred.
Besides the destroyed reactor at Chernobyl there are three other old reactors all in uncertain condition.
Two new and reasonably up-to-date atomic power stations are nearly ready for use in the Ukraine.
It is absolutely right for the report to urge the Commission to examine TACIS funds in this respect.
That is why the realization of the agreement made in December 1995 to close Chernobyl requires other decisions to be taken on energy production.
The Commission points out that the Community's contribution to the funds for sealing the reactor will ensure that the shelter plan, under the agreement between the G7 nations and the Ukraine on shutting Chernobyl down, will be carried out by the year 2000.
The EU's contribution to the funding of a new sarcophagus should also be independent of the building of the two Ukrainian power stations which are under construction.
Certainly, the Government of Ukraine claims that in order to close down Chernobyl, it is necessary to build new power stations as soon as possible.
The people working on the site and living in the surrounding areas have paid a very heavy price for faulty design, very poor maintenance and a very risky working environment.
The principal purpose of the Shelter Improvement Plan must be to close and decommission the plant completely, as quickly as possible.
Nonetheless I continue to have concerns, about liability, for instance.
Mr President, I would like to devote my remaining time to the political subject of Ukraine's independence.
Mr President, there are undoubtedly a lot of people who, like me, remember 26 April 1986.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has also played an important role by taking on the heavy responsibility of managing the project on the donors' behalf, and it has managed to get the project under way quickly.
Of the US$ 400 million promised to the Chernobyl fund, US$ 178 million of fixed commitments have already been made for 1997-1998.
The cash already in the fund's account amounts to nearly ECU 50 million: this does not include the contribution from the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
EC - USA competition laws Agreement The next item is the report (A4-0104/98) by Mr Malerba, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the proposal for a Council and Commission Decision concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Communities and the Government of the United States of America regarding the application of positive comity principles in the enforcement of their competition laws (COM(97)0233 - C4-0559/97-97/0178(CNS)).
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the global economy society we live in, there is an ever increasing number of multinational companies and mergers.
In 1991, the European Commission and the US Government concluded a bilateral Agreement on the application of competition rules between the two parties.
The central point, therefore, is the extraterritorial application of competition rules.
As a result, child deaths have risen to 12 million a year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to offer sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent report.
The Agreement presented here constitutes a renewed attempt by the two largest markets in the world - the two most important trade partners - to reach an accord where previously there have always been recurrent difficulties.
In international competition law as well, people in Texas or elsewhere believe they can apply their own rules and do not have to take account of international law.
Globalization, as we all know, leads to world-wide competition.
Thank you very much, Mr Seppänen.
It is therefore a very valuable attempt.
This situation arises particularly in the matter of international legislation.
Thank you very much, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
Thank you very much, Mr Manisco.
I am sorry; I did not look towards the left and in my case, ladies and gentlemen, that is even more difficult to understand.
I looked towards the right, towards the centre and towards the left, but not towards the extreme left.
Mr Schulz, that is not a point of order.
In any case, this could open a debate.
But if you insist, Friday mornings are very special mornings so I will give you the floor for one minute.
Mr President, I knew you were an understanding man.
So in future please let us not just mention ourselves, but also the people who live there.
