Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 19 June 1998.
This is a historic day for Northern Ireland and given your interest and support for the peace process, would you, on behalf of all Members of Parliament, send a strong message of support for the implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, wishing all the elected members well in their work of building peace for the communities of Northern Ireland.
Mrs McCarthy, as you have said, this Parliament has always been supportive and this morning I sent a telegram to Mrs Marjorie Mowlam.
Thank you, Mrs Günther.
Mr President, Europe, which is in favour of dialogue, empathy and comprehension, cannot understand why we should want to offer dialogue to anyone who offers nothing but death.
Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for your message this morning to the new assembly in Northern Ireland which I hope is now getting under way.
I would also like to thank you personally for having come to Northern Ireland and thank this Parliament for its support in many ways down the years.
I have no doubt there will be difficult times on the road ahead but I hope and pray that in future when I rise in this Parliament, to speak on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland, it will be about good things and not the dark days we have come through over the last 25 years.
Mr Colino had every right as an individual to seek referral back to committee if he so wished but to do so he would have needed the support of his own political group or 29 Members.
Mr de Vries, you know as well as I do that points of order must be raised at the appropriate time, and none of us has any option but to be extremely disciplined. (The Minutes were approved) Welcome I would like to inform you that a group of Dutch members of parliament invited by one of our Members are now in the official gallery, and at this point I would like to convey our greetings to our colleagues from the Dutch parliament.
Mr President, a recent ruling of the Court of Justice has raised serious questions about the execution of the Community budget, both in 1998 and beyond.
The Commission is aware of the concerns which these difficulties have created, and I welcome the opportunity to inform you of the state of play on this matter.
As agreed at the Budgetary Trialogue of 23 June, the Commission will draw its conclusions on 14 July, in time for the discussions between the European Parliament and the Budget Council of 17 July.
The judgment of the Court of Justice of 12 May 1998 is the result of a legal action brought by the United Kingdom, later supported by Germany, Denmark and the Council.
The action was brought against a decision of the European Commission in 1995, to finance projects to combat poverty and social exclusion, although the proposal for a legal base for the 'Poverty 4' programme had been blocked in Council.
Furthermore, before the specific case at hand, the Court set out a number of principles of which the Commission must take account as regards the implementation of the budget.
In brief, the Court insists that funds for significant Community action can only be executed if there is both an entry in the budget and a prior adoption of secondary legislation, that is a so-called 'legal base' , authorizing the action itself.
The Court accepts, however, that a legal base is not required for non-significant action.
But it insists that a small amount or a short duration are not, per se , sufficient criteria.
Instead the Court points towards the right of the Commission to exercise its power of initiative by initiating, on its own responsibility, the studies or projects required to prepare its proposals.
From that it can be derived that pilot projects, preparatory measures and studies to prepare or update legislation can be executed without a legal base.
In addition, autonomous actions of the institutions have not been disputed.
The total budgetary volume in question was some ECU 870m; for 19 of these budget lines, the Commission has proposed legal bases, some of them already four years ago.
Thus execution has resumed of some ECU 240m; for the rest the examination continues and the Commission should take its decision on 14 July 1998.
In parallel to its internal investigations, the Commission has contacted Parliament and Council to discuss the situation.
The Budgetary Trialogue of 23 June has permitted to agree an action plan with three elements.
Firstly, Council and Parliament will accelerate the adoption of legal bases for which the Commission has already made proposals.
This is very important because it concerns some major budget lines, in particular the 'Community measures for NGOs' (for which a legal base has been proposed in 1995) and the 'Human Rights and Democracy initiative' (proposal one year ago).
The Commission will have an opportunity tonight and tomorrow to draw the attention of the Austrian presidency to the urgent need to adopt these legal bases.
But it is up to the legislative authority to make a special effort in this respect.
Secondly, in the Trialogue the Commission committed itself to conclude its examination in time to provide results for the meeting between the Budget Council and the European Parliament of 17 July 1998.
Thirdly, the institutions will make their best efforts to come to a 'code of conduct' for the question of legal bases already on 17 July.
It has made a number of proposals which, unfortunately, have not been agreed between the Council and Parliament.
The most recent proposal has been made in the framework of the Commission proposals of 18 March 1998 for the next interinstitutional agreement.
Commissioner, you have just said that the Commission had no choice but to suspend over 40 budget lines.
We must remember that the decision of the Court concerned issues which affect the weakest part of our society, namely the budget lines against poverty and social exclusion.
We all think these actions have been extremely important but when the Court announced its decision on the Commission's competence to implement these budget lines, we had no other choice but to seek legal certainty for the implementation of the budget from now on.
I am sure that in two weeks' time the situation will have become clearer.
This issue has been shuffling around Parliament since 1982 and each year all kinds of problems surface which curtail Parliament's possibilities to exercise its powers.
It is very important to try to solve this problem which has been pending since the 1980s.
In the best scenario, by 17 July we could have a clear situation for the 1998 budget and a solution for the long-term which could then be a part of the interinstitutional agreement which must be concluded before the end of this Parliament.
There are two questions here which are very important.
In the final analysis, it will affect a large number of NGOs, that is, organizations which need these funds in order to exist and which cannot wait until the long drawn-out bargaining processes between the Council and the Commission are over.
We must remember that the Commission cannot behave as if the Court ruling had not taken place.
The Court of Justice is an independent institution in the European Union and we are obliged to follow its ruling.
The political adjustment cannot go in a different direction to the clear contents of the Court decision.
The clear message is that according to the Court, significant Community action requires both appropriations in the budget line and a prior legal base.
We must remember the poverty programme was blocked in the Council.
We wanted to continue some actions which were very close to many European citizens which we had implemented, supported by the European Parliament, but then the Court of Justice announced this decision.
Of course, we are working as hard as we can towards clarifying the situation by 17 July.
I am not totally convinced that Commissioners Flynn and Bonino would agree with your very restrictive interpretation of this Court ruling.
As you have quite rightly said, the areas and the budget lines affected are those which are closest to the citizens and which, coincidentally, have been put in by the Members themselves.
If you are trying to keep the link between Parliament, Commission, Council and the people, you must try hard to get a quick solution to this.
The Council did not accept the legal base but when the Commission decided to execute that legal base, Members of Parliament attack the Commission.
Our decisions have been annulled and we must follow the law.
There are many areas in the budget which are very close to what I would like to do but that under the Treaty and financial regulations we need a prior legal base and appropriations in the budget.
We cannot continue as if Court of Justice decisions had no bearing on how the Commission acts.
I agree it is important to be close to the European citizens; it is also important to respect the founding treaties on which the whole Union is based.
Thirdly, this legal interpretation has been prepared in the Commission by our legal service and by our budget department and agreed fully in the Commission.
But the Commissioner has also said there is a margin for interpretation.
The Commission cannot sit silently between the Council and Parliament and say whichever is stronger will win.
As you know, our position has always been to support co-decision within the whole decision-making system as much as possible.
Commissioner Liikanen, the Commission has been in operation since 1 January 1995 and since that time you have been responsible for the budget.
This Parliament has not given a discharge for the 1996 budget and has reserved the right to do so in September.
This Commission has been in office since January 1995 and we must remember that these budget lines were executed in 1995.
As far as our initiatives are concerned, your colleagues in the Committee on Budgets know that we have made proposals all the time to solve the issue of the legal base.
Mr Christodoulou, the rapporteur for the European Parliament, has been very active on this matter.
I am sure that your colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and those who take part in the Trialogue will do everything they can together with us to find a line which could be acceptable for all three institutions.
We have applied this interpretation since 1994.
The problem is that the Court did not accept it.
In many areas there is no disagreement on the political contents.
There is very often disagreement on the different procedural issues or comitologies or the article on which to base the legal base.
We need a strong political will and strong coordination in the Council to get them all through.
The unilateral position of the Commission has not been accepted by the Court.
I hope that those organizations who do not have the opportunity to avail of Structural Funds will be given priority when the decisions are made in the Commission.
If we have the basis for an agreement, the Commission will do all the technical preparations necessary.
That is what we have been proposing since 1995.
If the Council accepts that legal basis it is cleared for external actions.
We must try to find solutions which support the political priorities of Parliament and the Commission but which are legally solid.
The Commissioner will now have heard the anxiety across the political spectrum in this House about what has happened with these legal bases and budget lines.
But also we - like the Commissioner - have been on the end of the lobby from NGOs, organizations and people who have been supported by those budget lines and now find they are not available.
It is important that our actions in the Commission and in Parliament are targeted on the areas where the problems are.
Many problems are solved on the day the Council accepts the legal base.
We must try to find a solution which will attract popular support.
Mrs Green is right that we should bring pressure to bear on the Council.
But the European Commission must also do its duty and give specific answers to the questions placed before it.
And thirdly, ... (The President cut off the speaker since he had exceeded his allotted time) We try to analyse all the budget lines now in the spirit of the Court ruling so that we have a right to execute pilot projects and preparatory actions.
All those actions which fulfil these criteria can be executed without a legal base.
When the Court does not accept our interpretation about a certain amount of money, we cannot insert a new sum because it says clearly that a small sum is not a sufficient condition to execute a budget line as being not significant.
But pilot projects can be small and can be larger.
Preparatory action can be small but can be bigger.
The key thing is that we have to try to make a qualitative analysis of the old actions, not quantitatively as was done in the past.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
Mr President, I think that you should give an answer to this question in your capacity as President.
The point is that we cannot ask - or indeed complain about - the Commission because there has been a shift of power: the Commission and Parliament are now in the same boat with regard to the Council.
It is now time for Parliament to make a statement on this issue.
Mr President, I respect your authority as President to conduct the debates, but perhaps, in a debate of this kind, if the rapporteur asks to speak it ought to be one of the 20 or 30 Members who could put a question.
Mr Colom, this is a debate which is ordered in such a way that all Members can have an opportunity to speak, whether they are rapporteurs, chairmen of groups or anything else.
But if you compare the situation in Jordan with the average situation in all of the other countries in the region, then Jordan is doing relatively well.
Mr President, firstly, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her work, and also for her comments here today.
Democracy and human rights are always issues which we are increasingly stressing in our cooperation with other countries.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation is therefore pleased that this, too, has been laid down in Article 2 of the Agreement.
Jordan is a country with a long-term vision.
And I would like to take this opportunity to say that we are concerned that the necessary ratification by Member States of the European Union will take another four years from now, and the implementation of this Euro-Mediterranean Agreement will, thus, be delayed even further.
Jordan is a country that has opted for peace and a country in a difficult region and a difficult situation.
Jordan is a country that has maintained a constructive attitude in the dialogue process signed in Barcelona and has continued along the same road since.
And the financial and economic cooperation that can come out of this Agreement is important to Jordan's political development.
With regard to agriculture, the sector that has caused the delay in reaching an agreement with Jordan, we have to accept its inclusion in this free trade area and find quicker formulas for achieving cooperation in that respect.
This Agreement also includes a political dialogue and a parliamentary dialogue which we have called for many times.
In October, in this same House, there will be a multilateral dialogue between the parliaments of the region and the European Parliament.
The Agreement also contains provisions for monitoring the observance of human rights and support for democratization.
The situation in that field is not perfect.
We are concerned not so much about the human rights situation - which, as previous speakers here have already said, is comparable to that in other areas of the world - as about a certain tendency for the situation regarding political rights - the right to hold meetings, the right of association, the freedom for elected members to carry out their duties, etcetera - to deteriorate, and we want that situation to improve.
But we want to sign this Agreement precisely in order to be able to do that: to be able to play a proper part in the monitoring of human rights, as has been mentioned, to help in the democratization process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the Agreement with Jordan is a positive step, since this Agreement is an example of how the European Union can conclude treaties with other countries - in this case with the Mediterranean region, in particular - which are below the threshold for accession.
We cannot only intensify cooperation when there is a prospect of accession to the European Union at the end of the process; instead, we must find other ways of proceeding.
On this the first day of the Austrian Presidency, I would call upon Vienna to ask all of the Member States to speed up the agreement with Egypt because we do not want the first country in the Middle East that had the courage to start the peace process with Israel to be one of the last to be able to sign the agreements.
Mr President, the Liberal group welcomes the conclusion of this agreement with Jordan.
The European Union is doing well to pursue this Mediterranean policy under the Barcelona process.
The Liberal group therefore accepts this agreement and joins me in sending compliments to my friend and colleague Magda Aelvoet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we approve the basis of this report and the improvement in relations between the European Union and Jordan.
This report is too critical because what we mean to say here is that human rights are far from perfect in Jordan; but what conditions prevail in the region?
We must, therefore, rekindle interparliamentary dialogue in general, and Euro-Mediterranean dialogue in particular.
The meeting of Foreign Ministers on 3 and 4 June was useful in this sense, and I believe that it can help the third Euro-Mediterranean Conference.
The most important question relates to the peace process.
We must tell everyone that you cannot play with peace, but especially that this region cannot be kept in a situation of marginalization, poverty and non-development.
I understand that this is in the interest of some who today are stronger and more powerful, but this is not in the interest of all the peoples and not in the interest of the European Union; we must therefore remind everyone of their sense of responsibility in concluding this peace process.
This Agreement creates the necessary conditions for establishing the nucleus of a future integrated economic area, as soon as the political situation permits, in the Middle East and North Africa.
By creating this network of agreements based on similar provisions, the Community is attempting to create an economically prosperous EuroMediterranean area and encourage the development of South-South economic relations, which are essential to peace and economic stability in the region.
The Commission is aware that the gradual establishment of free trade with the Community is an enormous challenge to the Jordanian economy and Jordanian society.
In that respect, although the Community can only act as a catalyst for the efforts of Jordanian society, it will not fail to provide technical and financial assistance, through the existing channels, to support the changes Jordan will have to make.
The Commission is especially pleased that Jordan fully accepts the provisions relating to respect for human rights and fundamental democratic principles, as well as the need to prevent illegal immigration.
We hope that the process of ratification by the Jordanian parliament and those of our Member States will soon be completed so that the Agreement can begin to produce its beneficial effects as quickly as possible.
The debate is closed.
The purpose of my new report is to take stock of what has happened since then and to suggest ways in which we can move forward by strengthening the development of European Union environment policy for urban areas.
If we are indeed to develop the role of cities as generators of prosperity and economic growth and combat the under use of human resources, then an integral component of our work must be a tangible improvement in urban environments.
I do not yet see a clear answer from the Commission.
I say play our part, President, because this is not something which the EU can or should tackle on its own.
First, I would like to pay tribute to the work of the expert group on urban environment and to the sustainable cities campaign.
Each has made enormous contributions to the development of urban environment policy, awareness raising and real actions which have taken place over the last few years.
Environmental degradation in our towns and cities is as widespread as the problem of social dislocation.
We also lack any fund whose primary aim is to improve urban environment.
This must go hand-in-hand with the widespread dissemination of better information on the state of Europe's urban environment and an ongoing programme of pilot schemes.
Putting sustainability at the forefront of our efforts in urban areas is the key to successful action in the future and we need continued support for the Agenda 21 organizations.
It is also about the need for quality of life and equity between current generations; an urban model which excludes a substantial environmental component is incapable of achieving this.
I welcome the news that an urban environment action programme will be launched in Vienna in November.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this resolution is a starting point for our Parliament because the European Commission's communication has the merit of initiating a debate and, for the first time, approaching urban problems from a global, comprehensive viewpoint.
I believe that this is important because, to date, we have dealt with cities, but only in the context of sectoral policies.
Therefore, cities are where the greatest number of contradictions exist: in general, cities are where there is the most wealth - the level of the Community's gross domestic product is actually the highest in cities, but it is also where poverty is the most severe and where there is another, perhaps even more serious phenomenon, that of exclusion.
Mr President, this own-initiative report on planning and the European Spatial Development Perspective is part of the work being carried out by the governments of the countries belonging to the Committee on Spatial Development.
On 9 and 10 June 1997 in Noorwijk, during the Dutch presidency, this work produced a first official draft of the European Spatial Development Perspective.
This first draft stated that we have not yet considered, at European or national level, the three principal aspects of regional planning: the spatial aspect, based mainly on the location of people, activities and equipment; the economic, social and cultural aspect, based on employment and the search for work; and the aspect based mainly on the protection of the environment.
The report we are debating today concentrates on the content of the first four sections of this first draft perspective, the spirit of which is specifically summarized in the first part, defining the purpose of regional planning.
That purpose is based on the principle, which we have constantly and frequently defended in this Parliament, that truly balanced competitiveness throughout the whole territory of the European Union can only be achieved on the basis of social and economic cohesion and the nurturing of sustainable development.
I have tried to draw special attention to this aspect in my report.
And on this point I want to remind the House of the continuous calls by the European Parliament to give definitive official status to the Council of Regional Planning Ministers and to make the Committee on Spatial Development a permanent body, seeking, too, ways and means of enabling regional and local authorities to play an active part in the process.
There are, nevertheless, various existing Community instruments that can be used to implement the perspective, such as the Community policies affecting the spatial balance and the structural policies defined in Article 130a of the Treaty, the reform of which will have to take account of the political principles and options defined in the perspective.
With regard to the other 14 amendments tabled, I would like to explain to you, Mr President, the reasons why I am against their inclusion in the document.
Mr President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs agrees with the need for the coordination of Community policies concerning cities and an integrated overall view of them that will lead us to develop an effective urban policy.
We are all agreed that the URBAN, INTEGRA and Interreg initiatives have been successful and that their objectives should be maintained in the future.
Our cities still have problems of unemployment, social integration, immigration and safety which call for joint action by citizens and authorities to find solutions.
Planning must take into account the ageing European population, young people and the difficulty they have in getting their first home, children, whose safety is in doubt in many cities, the disabled, housewives, and the unemployed.
Although all different, they all have one need in common: they want to live with dignity, and there must be a place for them in the city.
Cities can be innovation laboratories for social and employment policy, turning problems into opportunities.
Urban sustainability will require greater awareness in the use of public transport, saving water and energy, and the management of waste and noise, which very seriously affect industrial and tourist-orientated cities.
The environment and public health side of urban issues seems to be submerged in the debate about economic urban regeneration and spatial development.
We accept, of course, that problems of high unemployment and social exclusion are particularly serious in cities.
Nevertheless, several OECD studies have indicated that improving quality of life in the urban environment not only improves life for its citizens but helps attract and create jobs and investment.
The eleven suggestions under the heading of environmental aspects in the report are crucial in developing urban environmental action.
The disappearance, in particular, of the urban community initiative into Objective 2 means that the flexibility needed to be able to develop environmental sustainability in our cities, where it is so desperately needed, is missing.
I think it is a report which helps us to understand the problem and makes important proposals.
I come from Barcelona, a city which is very proud of its status and its local government, and I know how much local government authorities look to Europe and how much the presence of Europe needs to be felt through our cities so that citizens can see and hear how important and how close to them it is.
The first proof that we have adopted such a policy, as the report says, will be the reform of the Structural Funds, and in that respect it seems to me that some interesting suggestions for reform have been put forward, especially the reform of Objective 2.
But I would also like to express my concern that, at the same time, there is talk of abolishing such a beneficial initiative as URBAN.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Mr President, is also looking very carefully at what is going on in the cities.
We must work against phenomena such as racism and xenophobia - and there is provision for this - and we must introduce a series of structural and social measures which involve the citizens and which strengthen the social fabric and civil society in order to do so.
And I believe, for example, that it is very important to establish systems of summary justice and community reparation for petty crimes, and support other, little-publicized, types of action, such as the drug and heroin addiction prevention and control plans which are being implemented in many cities, without much fuss, and which are extremely effective.
I think this series of measures would be important and I hope this report and the Commission's initiative will help to place this subject, too, at the top of our agendas.
It is particularly relevant for Parliament to give its opinion on the future development of these policy areas given that under the British presidency the informal meeting of Ministers in Glasgow chose to devote one whole day to discuss both urban policy and the European spatial planning perspective.
We need to agree on how to plan for the future and making sure the results of such an exercise are accessible.
The real audience are our citizens and the countries of the European Union need to bring governments closer to the citizens.
At the informal Glasgow Council, children from across the European Union fifteen Member States were asked to design and present to ministers their ideal city of the future.
Just as Member States have their territorial policies, which include regional and local policies, we now need a European planning policy which incorporates the different national policies.
Planning is bound to influence future regional policy, because there will be no economic and social cohesion without territorial cohesion.
We cannot go on designing and implementing isolated common policies, because we are doing something bigger than that, we are building a continent, and we need to do so in a spirit of cohesion and solidarity between the 15 existing Member States and those that are knocking at our door, in order to build the great Europe.
I therefore support the ESDP and my compatriot Mr Novo Belenguer's excellent report, and I would only wish to restate here what I added to the report in committee: that the European Spatial Development Perspective should go beyond its obvious terrestrial dimension and include the maritime dimension it lacks at present.
Speaking for this Parliament, I call for support from the Commission and the Council for the Atlantic side of Europe, an area where 50 million Europeans live, where three of the present four cohesion states are situated, two of them fully within Objective 1, and where there are 32 peripheral and ultra-peripheral maritime regions.
Secondly, there is the problem of the cities.
European policy must have a direct effect on cities as a whole, not only their sectoral aspects, in order to deal with the serious problems they have, as the rapporteur has mentioned, especially those of unemployment, social integration and immigration, which is also normally concentrated in these areas, and to develop citizen participation and improve the quality of life.
This may make it difficult to implement the city schemes contained in that great compendium of measures, the proposed new Objective 2.
Finally, I would like to say that this urban policy is not incompatible with regional policy, but rather complementary to it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Spatial Development Perspective (ESDP) is a document which, even though it depends simply on intergovernmental cooperation, aims to give a real political framework to Community, national and regional actions as regards regional planning.
At Community level, this framework will help to give coherence to the various Union policies, and in particular to structural policy and transport policy.
The ESDP, and the proposals for regulations on the Structural Funds appear to want to bypass these provisions and bring no message of hope to the 14 million people living in insular regions who are still waiting to be integrated into a major European regional planning project.
I would not like to appear too pessimistic, and so after congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent piece of work, I would very much like to welcome the promise reiterated on 8 June by the European Ministers for Regional Planning, who met in Glasgow, to think more seriously about the territorial development of the Mediterranean basin.
The European Environment Agency calculates that between 70 % and 80 % of cities with over 500 000 inhabitants have problems of air pollution, noise pollution and deficiencies in the general quality of life.
It is true that the European Union has taken some sectorial measures relating to air quality - with the Auto-Oil programme, which was debated in the Committee on the Environment -, to water quality, and also to waste management.
There is a campaign for sustainable cities, supported by over 320 local authorities.
But, today, there is still no overall statement of the European Union's position on the quality of life in the cities, even though the Green Paper on quality in the cities was debated and published 7 years ago.
I would conclude, Mr President, by saying that we need an overall framework programme for air quality and the urban environment, with sufficient and coordinated funds.
Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks regarding the Pollack, Napoletano and Novo Belenguer reports.
The committee also deserves to be commended for its own amendments which have made a very positive contribution to Mrs Napoletano's work.
It seems to me that the most relevant aspects and most significant requests in the motion for a resolution are: firstly, the definition of a European strategy for urban policy and the coordination of all Community policies concerning urban areas; and secondly, the need for European support of European strategies on sustainable urban development.
I think, therefore, that we must be aware of this risk and avoid a situation where the needs of small and medium-sized cities are totally forgotten.
Secondly, as regards the new Objective 2 which covers both urban and rural areas, guarantee clauses should be included so that when individual Member States make their selection, they cannot entirely overlook rural areas and just select strong areas that are inevitably, in all countries, urban areas.
One of the reasons given was that there were major problems in towns and cities throughout Europe and that over 80 % of the population lived in towns and cities.
Anyone who has spent any time in local or regional politics will know that the problems involved are often very specific and require specific solutions.
The approach adopted by the ESDP is therefore quite a cautious approach.
It merely raises a number of very general assumptions and perspectives.
Mr President, I would like to rise above all the repetitive talk we have heard these past few years on the urban environment.
Moreover, the unevenness of Community interventions leaves us puzzled when we see that over half of the Community budget is aimed at rural areas while 80 % of the population actually lives in urban areas.
So, yes, we support the Pollack report and, yes, we give our unconditional support to a stronger Union policy on the urban environment.
It seems to me that this report highlights two fundamental issues.
The first is that almost 80 % of European citizens live in urban areas.
Both issues should mark a starting point for a Community strategy to achieve the harmonious development of the European geographical area.
The European Charter for Women in Cities, a discussion paper sponsored by the Equal Opportunities Unit of the European Commission in 1995, contains some of the key ideas that can help us in our general thinking: the opportunity of gaining access to employment; the number and quality of neighbourhood services, especially those relating to child care; access to decisiontaking authorities in cities; and the issue of safety in urban areas.
We must not get carried away; we must take account of the principle of subsidiarity not only in speeches but also in our very practical political work.
The excellent reports before us today - especially the reports from our committee by Mrs Napoletano and Mr Novo Belenguer - take account of all these issues to a substantial degree.
I have nothing against URBAN, but we must take ourselves seriously and thus integrate URBAN and its objectives into general Community policy and structural policy, even if we would prefer to have our own programme.
I have nothing against the initiative for cities, but we must not forget the region around the cities either.
I have one final point: I have nothing against a further extension of the right to vote in local elections for all citizens living in our European Union, but first things first, we should be concentrating on EU citizens above all.
The proposal for an urban audit is, therefore, an excellent one and it will be useful for all our towns to think about this.
Finally, I fully subscribe to the importance which the report gives to the participation of citizens in local democracy, and, therefore, to the compulsory and unrestricted application of the Treaty as regards the voting rights of European nationals in municipal elections.
Mr President, the report by our colleague, Mr Novo Belenguer, expresses its agreement with the main aims of the ESDP project and emphasizes the shortcomings of an overly urban and continental vision of Europe.
It ignores the role played by public services and local policies in terms of land use.
The rapporteur proposes putting a fence around European policies to encourage the development of social and economic cohesion and lasting development.
In fact, rural areas represent approximately 80 % of the Community territory, and a balanced regional planning policy depends on their vitality.
Mr President, the Commission must also be well aware of this and take account of this in its proposals for reform of the common agricultural policy.
Diversification can offer new opportunities for the promotion of our cultural and natural heritage, as well as the development of rural tourism affecting small- and medium-sized firms and craft industries.
Extensification and marginalization can create better conditions for the protection of the environment and reafforestation, always provided that we can prevent a haemorrhage of manpower and the abandonment of agricultural holdings by using land in a different way.
Thus, the abandonment of some of our countryside has been aggravated by the implementation of the 1992 common agricultural policy and the reduction in agricultural prices.
The new reform of the common agricultural policy which, amongst other things, involves a marked reduction in prices, can only further unbalance regional planning through a major reduction in the number of farmers.
The purpose is not to develop Europe-wide urban policies in areas that can be better dealt with at local or regional level but rather to facilitate solutions and their application at European level, adopting a more targeted approach based on the instruments that exist in Member States and at Community level, with increased cooperation and coordination at all levels.
So, promoting the development of cultural activities as a factor of social and economic cohesion must be one of the new directions.
Another area where cities can and must play a fundamental role is in the conservation of the environment, because the most serious environmental problems are concentrated in cities.
Therefore, when planning and developing future strategies, greater attention must be given to urban development and rehabilitation of the decaying outlying areas, since this will favour synergy between specific actions at both local and regional level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to express my appreciation of the excellent work undertaken by Mrs Napoletano and Mr Novo Belenguer.
Firstly, the various European Union policies - such as agricultural policy, structural policy, transport policy or even competition policy - directly affect the spatial structures of the European Union, but have hitherto done so, as regards regional planning, in an uncoordinated and incoherent manner.
Mr President, up to now the accent in the regional policies we have been implementing has been on development in the less favoured regions of the Union, as a means of advancing economic and social cohesion.
Yet in recent years more and more people have been calling our attention to the fact that we ought to be placing more emphasis on the citizen as the beneficiary of our environmental and planning policies.
The Commission has already pointed out this trend in its Europe 2000 communications and, more recently, in its Europe 2000+ document on planning, and Parliament voted in favour of the report, of which I myself was the rapporteur, by an overwhelming majority.
But Europe, Mr President, is, first and foremost, an urbanized continent.
The most serious cases of poverty, marginalization, unemployment, social exclusion and crime are now found in the urban areas of the Union.
The same applies to Naples, Amsterdam or Madrid.
That is why I share the Commission's view on Agenda 2000, which does not propose a reduction in urban development funds, as some critics seem to believe regarding the URBAN programme, but does, in fact, seek to restructure those funds to create a greater and more efficient volume of investment to support development in the urban areas of the Union.
Mr President, I have three brief comments to make on these three excellent reports.
Firstly, I am pleased to see that Mr Novo Belenguer, in particular, has recognized how important proper coordination of regional planning policy is to sustainable development - particularly with regard to nature conservation policy - and has included this in one of the points of the resolution.
There is, however, scarcely any coordination between the Member States.
Finally, Mrs Napoletano and Mrs Pollack have pointed out that 80 % of the population live in towns and cities and that the European Commission wants to scrap the URBAN initiative.
We are sorry to learn that the URBAN initiative will also be disappearing from Agenda 2000 because it forms part of Objective 2, although towns and cities in areas not covered by Objective 2 are excluded from the urban system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft European Spatial Development Perspective is an approach to planning matters which I consider limited, inasmuch as it places little importance on the problems of the human dimension of the occupation of land, that is to say, on its cultural and educational aspects and the question of social exclusion.
Similarly, it does not enquire as to the role public services, regional policies and specific economic activities should play in rational planning, particularly through giving the attention that is desirable and necessary to the peripheral and ultra-peripheral regions and the islands.
It also supports the creation of a European Spatial Planning Observatory, but accepts the present informal framework of a Council of Regional Planning Ministers and recognizes the potential for development of urban and territorial planning policies, based on increased cooperation, dialogue, partnership and subsidiarity.
Mr President, the adoption of an integrated European policy and a strategy for the viable development of towns and cities today takes on a certain urgency as, in many towns and cities, the downgrading of the natural environment, the problems of political, cultural and social exclusion, and the problems of crime and traffic chaos have brought about a serious deterioration of the lives of millions of people.
Moreover, the crisis in our towns and cities places the competitiveness of the European Union, the mechanisms of integration, and the policy of economic and social cohesion in great jeopardy.
Fifth, we need the necessary reforms aimed at maintaining a high level of social protection, in view of the projected increase in the number of people over 60 years of age by 37 million over the next 25 years.
Bearing in mind the significant role played in the economic and social life of the European Union by towns and cities and large urban centres, in which a very large part of the population lives and where more than two thirds of the wealth of the European Union is concentrated, I think that the Commission must promote a European urban strategy that will acknowledge the vital role of towns and cities, as well as the special problems they face, one which is also aimed at coordinating the various Community policies which may affect urban regions either directly or indirectly.
Finally, we must encourage the accession of regional towns and cities to Europe-wide networks and, more generally, strengthen coordination and cooperation at all levels between towns and cities and the European Union.
Not simply do the vast majority of European citizens live in towns and cities but such urban areas include pockets of deep poverty and incidences of racism and social exclusion and of environmental degradation which demand action at European level.
But as other speakers have made clear, the abolition of the urban community initiative would dismantle European support in 110 cities benefiting half a million people across Europe.
Retaining a separate urban community initiative would allow innovative and trans-national urban projects to be maintained as well as aid to the majority of people who live in particular in small and medium-sized towns.
Meanwhile, welcome as the newer urban strand in mainstream Objective 2 structural funding would be, the proposed 2 % population to be aided is a feeble figure.
Today, in the Parliament, we have a visitor who is working to increase the recycling of waste in London from less than 10 % to 50 % by the year 2005.
It is essential that we recognize the need to pay more attention to the problems of cities at Community level.
We do, however, need to try to formulate a coordinated and consistent response to tackle the growing number of problems affecting our cities.
As a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, I would like to emphasize, in particular, the need to direct our efforts towards the fight against marginalization, racism, xenophobia and drug addiction.
As far as crime is concerned, we all know that urban areas are the most seriously affected.
The growth of crime is a serious threat to the respect of citizens' rights in the Union, and for that reason we must endeavour to go on creating a Europe of safety and justice, encouraging the competent authorities to maintain progress in the exchange of information that will benefit all the citizens of the Union.
In that context, and from the point of view of the objectives to be achieved at the beginning of the year 2000, we must ensure that local autonomy is protected and municipal authorities are given full responsibility in the partnership.
If we want to make European citizenship really meaningful, citizens must see it at work in the first institutional layer that represents it: the town hall.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mrs Pollack, Mrs Napoletano and Alfonso Novo, for the reports they are presenting today.
Furthermore, they also make it clear that our urban problems need a global approach, as regards both the internal problems of the cities and the relationship of cities to geographical areas.
They then go on to identify the most urgent needs the cities are facing: unemployment, which is a serious problem for social integration; citizens' safety and their participation; and the environment, and specifically the quality of life in our cities.
It deals with the problems of industrial decline, rural development, urban areas, and fishing subsidies within a general instrument comprising a total sum which, let us not forget, is reduced by 13 % in constant ecus during the 1999-2006 period in relation to the amount that is allocated to all these Objectives at present.
And there is regrettably no Community legal framework at European level to extend the significant increase in cross-border cooperation to cover planning matters, so as to improve the quality of life of our citizens.
Mr President, the reports and the debate that has been going on for so long have provided a sampling of the many serious problems that the urban Community territory is suffering from.
We run the risk of being regarded as hypocrites and accomplices in the cover-up of illegal interests, or, of it is not the one or the other, we run the risk of being regarded as political and parliamentary masochists, continually bemoaning the problems, not naming the causes, and consequently not confronting the problems in order to find a solution.
Although 80 % of EU citizens live in urban areas, over half the Union budget still gets spent in rural areas.
Although the details contained in urban policy are ultimately the province of decision-makers in individual countries and regions, as they should be, the European Union has its own important duty to solve in particular problems that are common to all.
We certainly want everyone in the future to enjoy clean drinking water, fresh air and a safe city environment.
Regionally balanced social and economic development, in other words spatial cohesion, can only be achieved if local communities and regions are equally involved in spatial planning and decision-making from the outset.
The rapporteur is, therefore, quite right in calling for the principle of subsidiarity to be strictly observed in implementing the ESDP.
I would also like to take this opportunity of congratulating the House on its efforts to give urban issues a more central position on the Community's political agenda, in accordance with the communication presented by the Commission last year on the initiative of my fellow Commissioners, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, Mrs Bjerregaard, Mr Flynn and Mr Kinnock.
The Commission is engaged in a systematic examination of Community policies on urban planning.
I hope the Commission will shortly be adopting that plan of action, so that it can be discussed at the Vienna Urban Forum on 26 and 27 November this year.
We are sure the European Parliament will also play an active part in that forum.
We fully agree with the view that the creation of local capacity and development at local community level are essential aspects of urban regeneration and should be stimulated by the Structural Funds involved in this type of action.
The Commission shares this House's opinion that we must strengthen the environmental dimension of our policies for urban areas and that greater emphasis should be placed on more general questions related to the quality of life of urban populations.
The challenges identified in the Commission's communication essentially relate to four matters: the need to improve productivity, economic development and employment in urban areas, especially in under-developed regions, the need to support equality of access and reduce social exclusion, which is increasing in urban areas, the need to make cities more sustainable from the environmental point of view, and the need to promote innovative and flexible decision-making processes in which our partners in the public, private and Community sectors can participate, at European and local level, and increase the synergy between institutional processes and existing resources.
In the first place, increasing productivity in cities in under-developed regions, in order to reduce regional disparities, is a major challenge to the Community.
Strategic urban planning must become more explicit where Structural Funds are concerned, and cities in eligible regions most play a more important part in future programming.
We must also think in terms of actions going beyond priority regions.
In that respect, the Commission needs to work out how to make the new Socrates and Leonardo programmes relevant in the urban context, and also the 'City of Tomorrow' scheme in the Fifth Framework Programme.
Cities also need to develop local development methods and local employment, and the Community is working on this topic.
Another aspect is the question of social equality and cohesion in urban areas.
Among many other actions in that connection, the Commission intends to concentrate part of the next package of Structural Funds on deprived urban areas located in Objective 2 regions, as proposed in Agenda 2000.
Housing is an essential factor in the fight against inequality, social exclusion and crime in urban areas, and is also a sector with potential for job creation and the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
I am aware, and the Commission is aware, that Parliament is in favour of continuing the Community initiative, URBAN.
In the light of the success of URBAN as a locally-based initiative, the Commission has decided to include it in the actions covered by Community support frameworks as from 2000.
One aspect of its inclusion is that the definition of partnership in the draft Structural Funds regulation will be extended to include local authorities and social and economic organizations, which some Member States seem to find rather controversial.
From the Commission's point of view, the inclusion of local authorities in partnership arrangements is essential if we are to find a solution to urban deprivation and achieve the successful integration of URBAN into our policy-making.
Another problem that arises, and will be addressed in the Commission's action plan, is that of the quality of the urban environment and urban life, which is also prominent in our reports and Members' speeches.
Environmental legislation is certainly the Community's most important means of improving the quality of the urban environment, particularly the measures we have taken on air quality, water quality, waste management and control of industrial pollution, all of which have had significant effects on urban areas.
The present legislation on assessing environmental effects also provides us with a valuable instrument for ensuring that new development in urban areas is sustainable from the environmental point of view.
But we still need to renew our efforts to create environmentally sustainable cities by means of more structural measures, in which respect the Commission may consider a number of actions and studies.
Finally, I come to the important question of local government and local power.
The Commission can assure local and regional authorities that it will support their efforts to find more integrated solutions to complex urban problems.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Commission and the European Parliament are in agreement that the urban agenda is not merely a local agenda but, on the contrary, requires action at all administrative levels.
Certain urban challenges can only be effectively met if the Community plays its part, which admittedly is modest in some sectors, but a leading one in other areas, such as the environment and social and economic cohesion.
In addition, the report provides a useful excuse for the Commission to state its point of view on recent developments following the Ministerial meeting on planning matters held in Glasgow on 8 June.
Thanks to those indications, we can hope for a joint incentive during the Austrian and German presidencies which will enable the first European Spatial Development Perspective to be approved next spring.
Its contribution to the process will include the following tasks: helping Member States to finalize the 'European Spatial Development Perspective' document and providing secretarial services for the Committee on Spatial Development; -organizing the rest of the fourth transnational seminars on access to knowledge, urban-rural partnerships, the management of environmentally sensitive areas and the territorial impact of enlargement, and a major forum in Brussels next February to bring together the results of the public debate within Member States and at European level; -supporting an experimental two-year research programme to strengthen the European Spatial Development Perspective, with the object of introducing a network of European planning observatories; -preparing a preliminary report on Community policies and planning; -and, finally, supporting transnational cooperation in order to demonstrate the advantages of a 'European Spatial Development Perspective' approach, which at present we are doing through Interreg II-C, and from 2000 will do by means of a new Community initiative based on trans-European cooperation and designed to promote stable and harmonious development.In my judgment, the importance of these matters has quite rightly been underlined, but we should also emphasize our constant and genuine respect for the principle of subsidiarity, while fully shouldering our own responsibilities.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate opens the ad hoc procedure for the 1999 budget, as provided in the Interinstitutional Agreements of 29 October 1993, which stipulate that at the request of the European Parliament the ad hoc procedure may be opened if either of the two arms of the Budgetary Authority wishes to depart from the preliminary draft budget on agricultural spending submitted by the Commission.
The budget procedure has been further improved and the ad hoc procedure now consists of three sections: agriculture, fisheries agreements and the common foreign and security policy.
Although it may appear to be a routine technical exercise, I should like to underline the political content of this ad hoc procedure, because it represents an extension of the European Parliament's influence over the budgetary procedure.
For that reason, the European Parliament's point of view, as we commence our dialogue on the 1999 budget, is contained in Annex I of the resolution.
There are, in fact, thirteen lines which lack a legal basis; these represent a total sum of ECU 150 million.
However, it is worth mentioning that the pressure we have exerted through the ad hoc procedure in recent years has had notable results.
For all these reasons the Committee on Budgets and I, the rapporteur, call on the House to approve this report as a mandate for negotiations between the European Parliament delegation and the Council.
Mr President, at this part-session, Parliament will be deciding on the mandate for negotiations with the Council covering, in particular, compulsory agricultural expenditure for 1999 as part of what is known as the ad hoc procedure.
This means that negotiations between Parliament and the Council should no longer focus on the preparation of a draft budget but on the autumn when the Commission sends the two arms of the Budgetary Authority a Letter of Amendment containing details of the most recent estimates of compulsory expenditure.
It is acting on this assumption by allocating ECU 700 million to a general reserve to cover market uncertainties and related measures.
Any reduction will be temporary assuming that the Commission comes up with proposals for a more selective reduction in a number of substantial budget lines.
Parliament believes that an evaluation of this kind must be carried out very quickly, particularly as these measures will form a substantial part of the new rural policy proposed by the Commission.
Parliament and the Council must be able to make a sensible decision on this.
Parliament will propose increasing the budget item to combat fraud in the agricultural sector.
The way in which Parliament could exercise its authority in a proper manner must form part of an agreement between the various institutions, a new agreement.
One comment on the legal basis.
The fact that 90 budget lines are at present not being executed is shameful for the development of civil society.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ad hoc procedure born of the provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993 on agricultural expenditure has been extended to include fisheries agreements and the common foreign and security policy.
Undoubtedly, this has enabled progress to be made, both as regards improvement of the budgetary procedure and preparation of the European Union's budget.
The concertation which preceded the second reading of the 1998 budget is the best example of this.
Another significant and positive step forward is the agreement concluded between the Council and the Commission, as a result of which the Commission must now submit a Letter of Amendment for agricultural expenditure to its preliminary draft budget, before the first reading of the budget, so that the budget forecasts can be better assessed, this being a difficult exercise as regards agriculture.
These improvements are wholly acceptable for two reasons: firstly, it becomes possible to put an end to a kind of war over budgetary decisions between Parliament and the Council, which has gone on for far too long in the past; and secondly, they give Parliament a more coherent and unified role in exercising its authority.
The situation of the budgetary hemiplegia of our Parliament, which only gave us power over half of the budget, leaving the Council the second part of the budgetary authority, is now seen as out of date and unrealistic.
We are in favour of the ad hoc procedure as a code of good conduct between the two arms of the Budgetary Authority: budgetary etiquette ensures better results when drawing up the budget.
The ad hoc procedure must only be applied within the framework of the Interinstitutional Agreement and must not go beyond this.
But we also consider - and this is a point we would like to emphasize - that this procedure neither can nor should be devalued by making it into a mere mechanism for proposing reductions in expenditure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on Mrs Dührkop-Dührkop's excellent report, I must make a short additional remark on this afternoon's debate on legal bases, as this seems relevant to me and was not mentioned.
At the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, all the groups were in agreement that if the Council dug its heels in, we should make full use of the margins available to us in categories 3 and 4 of the 1999 budget.
However, we wish to stress that everything possible must be done to guarantee that these particular programmes, which call for a high level of commitment by Member States, are made relevant to our citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are studying an important report on budgetary procedure here in Brussels, which is different from the texts which our headquarters manages, confirmed by the Court of Justice.
The report submitted to us is far from being neutral.
In fact, whilst, in theory, the ad hoc concertation procedure consists of formalized discussions between the two arms of the Budgetary Authority as regards the amount and distribution of compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, in practice, this procedure allows the European Parliament to open a dialogue and to politically blackmail the Council, both as regards the amount of compulsory expenditure as well as the nature of some of this expenditure.
As regards agricultural expenditure, the European Parliament justifies its regular recourse to the ad hoc procedure by pointing out the endemic overestimating of the past 10 years.
I had tabled an amendment which proposed that Parliament should regard the ad hoc procedure as an instrument designed to improve the allocation of credits and not a political method for upsetting the current balance of power between the two arms of the Budgetary Authority.
The Interinstitutional Agreement of 16 July changed things, without respecting the procedure, or waiting for ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Contrary to what we are told, the ad hoc procedure is not a way of rationalizing expenditure, but a desire to redefine the classification of this expenditure.
Mr President, the budget for 1999 is the last of the present financial perspectives.
We are well aware that the purpose of the ad hoc procedure is not to cast doubt on the competence of the budgetary authorities but is, on the contrary, to provide an opportunity for debate between the Council and Parliament on the classification of expenditure.
In addition - in the absence of any agreement with the Council on the legal basis in the trialogue, and to be coherent with the ruling by the Court of Justice -, the rapporteur suggests that funds relating to lines for which the legal basis has yet to be approved should be placed in a special reserve.
I should like to look more closely at points 13 and 14.
I believe point 14 places too much faith in administration and bureaucracy, indeed in rules that extend to regional policy.
Up until now the environmental protection of agriculture and associated activities has been dealt with through agreements between the Member State and the European Union, and both sides have contributed to the costs.
Presently, in the event of an outbreak of a contagious disease, 50 % of the costs are borne by the Member State and the remaining 50 % by the European budget.
The rigour of this budget is evident not only in its 'zero-growth' , but also in the efforts which have been made to reduce the over-budgeting seen in the past on certain budget lines.
As for the proposed creation of a reserve inside the EAGGF Guarantee, I have to say that the Commission does not see how the creation of a reserve without making any change to the overall amount of the budget contributes to our common aim, namely a rigorous budget.
The Commission is opposed to a linear reduction of all lines in order to fill a reserve.
However, if this is what the budgetary authority wishes to do, the Commission can accept to treat about 250 million euros as 'provisional appropriations' and place them in the reserve chapter B0-40.
To reduce the appropriations for the actions of control and prevention by 3 million and to inscribe them into the chapter B0-40, seems illogical.
Concerning the transfer of a supplementary 17 million euros to the B0-40, obtained by a linear reduction of the budget lines, the Commission does not see the usefulness of this action.
The rectifying letter will also be the right occasion for an update of the PDB in the light of legislative decisions, including those on the price package, market reforms and, probably, the adaptation of the agri-monetary system following the introduction of the euro.
The first one is the transfer of 0, 5 million euro from the line B7-8000 to the reserve relating to the agreement with the Gambia which will most probably not be signed in 1998 and thus will not be in force at the beginning of 1999.
The second is a reduction of up to 7 million euro of the reserve intended for new agreements, due to the fact that it will most likely not be possible to conclude a new agreement with Russia in the near future, for which such an amount had been foreseen in the reserve.
However, at a later stage the Commission present updated estimates and propose the corresponding changes to the proposals for new agreements.
As agreed during the trialogue of March 1998, the final distribution between the reserve and the budget line should be decided in the Letter of Amendment that the Commission will transmit at the end of October to the budget authority.
Finally, concerning the financing of the common foreign and security policy, with regard to the line for urgent actions (B8-015), appropriations proposed in the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1999 have been increased in the light of the relatively swift execution in the first months of 1998.
However, the Commission could endorse a certain downward revision of the allocated amount, such as the 2 million euro proposed by the European Parliament and reinforce for example the line for prevention of conflicts and support for peace processes (B8-013).
But if no agreement can be found for some budget lines, the Commission proposes to revert either to the nomenclature agreed upon in the 1998 budget discussion, or to the nomenclature agreed upon in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Commissioner, I would like to make it absolutely clear that this resolution does not propose any reserve for support measures.
During all the years of the ad hoc procedure this House has always stated that it is clearly against linear cuts.
As far as fishing agreements are concerned, Commissioner, I would like to say that, as we both know, not only is there little chance of the agreement with Russia being included in the 1999 budget, but this applies to one or two other agreements as well.
The debate is closed.
Starting with the bad news, 30 June 1999 could perhaps be the last day on which people who travel between Member States will be able to purchase duty-free goods such as specialty items, crafts, luxury articles, alcohol, and tobacco in tax free shops.
The Council also authorized duty-free sales during the extension period in the two Channel tunnel terminals and increased the duty-free allowance for third countries to ECU 175 and for Community countries to ECU 90.
This report was not produced until 1996, and today, a little more than one year before the end of the extension, the Parliament is called on to give its opinion on this Commission report and, therefore, indirectly on the future of duty-free.
To give you an idea of how this tax-free airport has developed, from the first flight with thirty passengers in 1945, we have reached a turnover of $10 million in 1977.
The Shannon concept spread rapidly to all of Europe and since then all the major airports have adopted the duty-free system.
In 1991, the Commission said that it was in favour of producing a study on the socio-economic consequences of eliminating duty-free.
Unfortunately, this report was never produced, and the information available today for understanding the current importance of the sector in question is still the information compiled by the sectors and the information contained in a European Parliament study.
The creation of the internal market on 1 January 1993 and the relative absence of Community borders made it necessary to introduce a system to monitor sales and guarantee compliance with the set duty-free allowances.
For their part, the controls set up by tax free shop managers are only the same as those carried out by warehouse managers and only guarantee that the goods have not left the store or the tax-free area without having been registered.
The shortcomings observed are probably due to the fact that Member States have not, between themselves, had the time to organize, coordinate and invest in these systems.
The extension to 30 June 1999 could have been a way of helping the sector make the necessary, gradual adaptations, but since 1991 nothing has been done to convert the duty-free system in preparation for the end of duty-free on 30 June 1999.
For that reason we are placing a lot of trust in the amendment that the Commission is sponsoring to use regional funds.
These problems are as old as duty-free sales themselves.
We did not agree with the way in which the original report tried to table the Ecofin Council resolution dated December 1991, on the subject of ending duty-free sales within the Community, again.
We are, of course, also concerned about jobs in duty-free shops, but firstly, consumer purchases will be moved to other shops where jobs will be created and secondly, governments will be able to lower taxes by raising additional, different tax revenues, or increase their expenditure in order to create new jobs.
The Commissioner has refused to extend the 30 June deadline again, for example until 1 January 2002, as our rapporteur, Mr Garosci, had proposed in a spirit of compromise.
I also hope that Parliament will agree to our amendment, which stipulates that travellers departing from ports and airports in the European Union will be able to make duty-free purchases if their final destination is outside the Union, but they have to change inside the Community.
Nevertheless, Parliament has made a wise decision in my view.
In theory, we are agreed, of course, that these duty-free zones must be abolished, but on the other hand, the European Union and the Council in the vanguard, with the European Commission in the rear, have not been able to resolve a number of tax issues.
I would, therefore, urge the European Commission to reconsider carefully all aspects of this issue and, in particular, to review the inevitable effects, rather than just the recommendations in this report.
Mr President, I recognize that the primary thrust of the Garosci report relates to the general need to tighten up the rules governing the purchase of duty-free products at airports within the territories of the European Union.
However, it is difficult at this time to debate such an issue without referring to the broader need to maintain duty-free operations within Europe post-1999.
I understand that the outgoing President of the Ecofin Council described this debate as the most emotive one on the political agenda and I believe most people would agree with that.
The abolition of duty-free will be a highly regressive step in the light of the fact that it commands such widespread support among the citizens of Europe.
In fact, at a time when many people contend that they feel alienated with the workings of the European Union, they find it virtually incomprehensible that the EU is abolishing what is a very popular mode of social shopping for many people working and travelling to different Member States within the Union.
On 3 April, this House overwhelmingly voted for a resolution calling on the European Commission to carry out a social and economic study.
The Council of Ecofin Ministers met on 19 May and contrary to press speculation there was no decision or reaffirmation by the Council that duty-free would be abolished.
It is a very serious situation and I would hope that the Commission will at last take into consideration the views of the Members of this House and the wishes of the vast majority of the people of this Union.
The price level is still considerable, despite the duty-free regime.
The fact is that there are valid arguments both for and against this measure.
I think the Committee on Transport's conclusions have shown us that it would be fitting for the Commission to prepare a more detailed study, particularly on the effects the abolition of this kind of shop might have on the funding and management of transport infrastructures, and the possible threat to consumers of an increase in terms of transport service costs as a result of increased airport charges.
Mr President, I am not in a position to express such a forthright opinion as some Members have done.
I would like to see a more detailed study of the subject, which is being called for not by the sector but by the representatives of some Member States.
I would also leave out some of the accusations we have heard concerning the sinful attitude of certain Members or Member States.
In any event, Mr President, what the Commission's report does say is that there are serious problems regarding controls in terms of the level of sales, especially for airport and in-flight sales.
And I totally agree that we should support all measures to enforce the observance of the laws of the European Union and its Member States and prevent abuses in that sector.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy decided after voting that it cannot, nor, consequently, can Parliament itself, take a position on the main question under debate.
I would like to make two marginal notes.
We should also remember that the Commission did not think it worth replying to the request from the Transport Council of 17 March 1998 nor to the European Parliament's resolution of 3 April.
Nor does its proposal, of the Ecofin Council of 19 May, correspond any better to its promise of 1991 or to Parliament's request, reiterated in its resolution of 3 April and adopted by a very large majority.
So, ladies and gentlemen, whereas paragraph 19 of the Commission's report on vendor controls recognized that duty-free sales make some contribution to the funding of airport infrastructures, help to minimize the effect of airport taxes and thus favour the tourist industry, it would be quite appropriate to provide for aid and appropriate compensation measures, especially in peripheral regions, which will suffer disproportionately from the consequences of the abolition of duty-free trade.
In this context, particular attention will also have to be paid to transport services in isolated and peripheral regions, and the Commission must look seriously into the possibility of Community funding.
If you travel via Brussels airport, as most Members here do, you go into the main lobby in terminal B and you can buy a bottle of spirits and 200 cigarettes.
You then go down terminal B to get to your gate and there are another two duty-free shops there where you can buy another bottle of spirits and another 200 cigarettes at each one of these shops.
Therefore, you have three litres of spirits and 600 cigarettes.
You can buy another bottle of spirits and another 200 cigarettes.
Then you have 4 litres of spirits and 800 cigarettes.
If we are going to continue to operate properly as a Union, we have to tighten up on the vendor control system.
Therefore, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have put down amendments to the Garosci Report showing ways that we can get around the abuse of the system within airports, ports and airlines.
Mr President, the decision to abolish the duty-free sector on 30 June 1999 was confirmed by the refusal of the Ecofin Council on 18 May 1998 to comply with Commissioner Scrivener's promise made to the Members of the European Parliament to carry out a study on the impact throughout the Union.
Since I only have two minutes, I will simply deal with one single aspect of this problem.
The directive which was passed in 1991 formed part of an overall plan for a harmonized tax system for Europe.
I come from the Cognac region in France and more than 30 % of its production is sold duty-free on the world market.
In some regions, such as the Nord-Pas-de-Calais, which already has 20 % unemployment, 3 500 jobs will be lost.
A fall in capacity will also result in fewer orders for the shipbuilding industry with a crushing effect on dockyard employees and subcontractors everywhere in the EU.
Mr President, in 1991 by a unanimous vote the Council of Ministers decided to abolish duty-free sales for journeys by air and sea within the European Union from 30 January 1999.
It is clear that many air companies and ferries, in particular those operating in peripheral regions such as Ireland, will have difficulty surviving the loss of income the abolition of duty-free will bring.
The Commission must examine in particular the structure of air and ferry companies servicing peripheral regions and bring forward measures to prevent loss of services to those regions concerned and prevent job losses.
Mr President, when the Council decided in 1991 to extend the existence of duty-free shopping until 1999, it could certainly not have known that unemployment in the EU in 1998 would be 18 million and rising.
The new President of the Council, Austria's Federal Chancellor, yesterday appealed to the EU partners to make the fight against unemployment the focus of their attention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the system that applies to duty-free sales up to 30 June 1999 involves the exercise of controls by the seller over his own sales.
Two years ago, in July 1996, the Commission drew up a report on the application of these controls by Member States.
The conclusions were somewhat negative, inasmuch as they highlighted, in particular, the diversity of the measures taken at national level and the gaps in their control systems.
Nevertheless, we would draw your attention to the fact that it is less appropriate to introduce measures of this kind now that we are only a year from the deadline of 30 June 1999.
The fact is that the need to introduce additional control measures would require further investment, which might amount to a misleading signal to operators as regards the deadline of 30 June 1999.
Mr President, I would now like to talk about the proposed changes, most of which are separate from the question of controls and relate to the general problem of duty-free sales.
I can confirm that there has been no change in that position, and indeed it has recently been reaffirmed here at the Ecofin Council on 19 May 1998.
On 19 May, let me say again, the Ecofin Council gave no indication to that effect, not did it even agree that the debate should be re-opened.
Finally, Mr President, Community legislation does not contain any provision allowing passengers travelling to third countries to buy duty-free goods at airports within the Community where they first embark.
There is nothing, however, to prevent contact between strictly Community passengers and passengers travelling to third countries.
This fact could lead to abuses which would be unacceptable to the Commission and Member States.
Mr President, I would very briefly like to thank the interpreters for going beyond the maximum time limit and for bearing with me earlier when I forced them to rush during the reading of my speech.
I would also like to thank the draftsmen and remind them that I have only tabled two amendments for tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we approve the Commission's underlying principle in presenting us with this proposal for a directive on the recognition of qualifications, that is, the consideration of three distinct elements: firstly, to take account of the initial lessons to be drawn from experience and, in this respect, I would like to point out that our European Parliament had very carefully studied the Commission's first report in April 1997; secondly, to take account of the SLIM initiative aimed at rationalization; and, finally and obviously, to take account of the development of the case-law of the Court of Justice.
As we are now dealing with horizontal modifications of sectoral directives, we are delighted that the Commission is tackling the problem of Community nationals who have had training outside the European Union.
This is a very delicate matter, which has been frequently raised and which often continues to be raised by our citizens.
Please allow me, Madam President, to finish with a much broader observation.
Moreover, we are not forgetting that the people of Europe face two very important stages in the months ahead: ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty in those countries where this has not yet happened, and, of course, the elections to the European Parliament next June.
Commissioner, can you give us an assurance that there will be a new directive in 1999, and that this directive will go as far as possible in the right direction?
The European Parliament and the citizens of Europe are waiting for an encouraging reply from you and I would like to thank you in advance.
Madam President, there is no doubt a great need for mutual recognition of professional qualifications throughout the EU Member States.
Experience and qualifications meeting minimum standards gained in one Member State should contribute towards the experience required in another Member State.
To ensure equality throughout the Union, if Member States require professionals to undergo further tests, they should firstly inform the Commission.
As both previous speakers have said, the Committee on Petitions receives more petitions from people who are experiencing discrimination in relation to the recognition of their professional qualifications than for any other single issue affecting our citizens.
To give you a bit of history, you may recall that the first directive on architects came at the end of 18 years of trying to decide what an architect was.
The architects' directive became the first under the Fontainebleau Agreement to say finally: Let us get out of the deep water and recognize certain basic qualifications.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are so used to the thorough and committed approach of the rapporteur, Mrs Fontaine, that I have to say that there is almost nothing left to add.
We were promised this report for this spring, but it is still not available.
The directive brings the whole Community system for recognizing qualifications up to date and gives concrete expression to its undertaking to simplify the up-dating of qualification lists.
To recount the events that support this measure: the Commission has submitted a report on current progress in the implementation of the general system for the recognition of higher-education diplomas; there have been developments in the case-law of the Court of Justice, which has given several preliminary rulings; and the Commission has sent the Council and Parliament its communication on the SLIM initiative.
The result of all this is a proposal to amend at least 14 directives, a number of which have certain problems in common, and it is thus possible to identify them and examine them much more systematically.
Experience shows that this formula guarantees a sufficient degree of legal certainty and fully respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
The contents of this proposal will incorporate the principle of case-law whereby, on receiving an application for the recognition of a qualification, the host Member State must take into consideration the experience acquired by the interested party since that qualification was obtained.
Three explanations should be made regarding the Committee on Legal Affairs' interpretation of these amendments.
The first is the amendment of the 1989 and 1992 directives relating to the general system.
It is an important plank in the free movement of workers which is a basic right in the Treaty of Rome.
I reiterate the points made by Mary Banotti.
As you know, in the original directive of 1985 on the recognition of architects' qualifications, certain Member States did not get derogations for what is known as an established right to practice.
It is up to Member States to recognize these workers' rights to fair treatment and I hope that Member States and the Commission - especially Commissioner Monti, who has been rather intransigent on this whole issue and I hope the message can be taken back to him - can agree that those countries that did not apply for the 1985 derogation should have the right to do so now.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to express my very warm thanks to Mrs Fontaine for paying special attention in her report to the outstanding proposals regarding the directive on architectural qualifications.
This applies in particular to Amendment No 14, which has already been mentioned several times today.
Just as with all the other directives, a reduction in the number of members on this committee and more effective procedures would also help to improve its workings under the architects' directive.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Parliament for the interest which it has shown in this proposal and for the important work carried out by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, as well as the rapporteur.
This new proposal has been seized upon as an opportunity to implement other recommendations which appear either in the Commission's report on the general system for the recognition of professional qualifications, or in the Commission's report on specific training in general medical practice.
Examples of this are Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6 to 9 and 11, which seek to oblige Member States to inform the Commission of their intention to introduce compensation measures for each professional sector involved.
It is also true of Amendments Nos 5 and 10, since they tend to afford a great deal of publicity to the deliberations of the Coordinators Group.
This is a matter which will be studied further, after the publication of the report which the Commission will present in 1999 on the general system for the recognition of professional qualifications.
The Commission therefore believes that the proposal contained in Amendments Nos 3 and 13 is premature.
Amendments Nos 15 to 21, in the field of general medical practice, will also be looked at in the context of the Commission's report on the system of recognition for professional qualifications, to be presented, as I have said, next year.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Pinheiro.
The debate is closed.
Union citizens comprise all those possessing the nationality of one of the Member States.
Fortunately, the Amsterdam Treaty specifies that Union citizenship is complementary to national citizenship.
Allow me to put forward some key points.
As far as the right of persons to move and reside freely in the whole of the European Union is concerned, we are certainly dealing with a right which is possibly the most concrete for citizens.
The main cause lies in the fact that this right is regulated through different clauses, depending on the category of citizens.
This would mean that each citizen would be able to petition their right to free residence and movement in front of any national judge in the Union.
As far as the active and passive right to vote in local elections is concerned, I will be brief and to the point.
This means that the right to vote in local elections should be introduced for all EU citizens by all Member States, including Belgium.
EU citizens often are not aware of how they can exercise this right in the Member State in which they reside.
As far as the right to petition and the right to apply to the ombudsman is concerned, the first annual report by our European ombudsman shows how these rights are useful and necessary, even if their exact scope is still unknown.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of European citizenship underlines that European integration is also a political project.
Free movement, the right to free residence, the right to vote, the right to apply to an ombudsman belong, of course, not just to the European Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, anyone who has ever worked on the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions knows how much trust citizens' petitions express in the institutions of the Union.
For that reason, citizenship of the Union has to be strengthened, developed and made a separate issue if we want to reduce the present democratic deficit in the Union.
The Commission's report formed a good basis for Parliament's opinion, because it openly addressed the evident shortcomings and weaknesses in the current legal position and practice.
The most effective way of doing this would be for a charter of fundamental rights to be included in the EU Treaty, which would define citizens of the Union as those entitled to the rights contained in it.
Access to citizenship of the Union should not depend solely on nationality but should also be open to nationals of third countries after five years' residence in the Union.
That means that school-leaving qualifications, professional qualifications and diplomas should be equally valid in all Member States.
If we adopt this approach in all areas, we can transform citizens' rights from pieces of paper to a living European reality.
Madam President, it really is reassuring to listen to this report here today.
It is reassuring because the conclusions of the Cardiff European Council are still ringing in our ears, and because we can still hear the echoes of recent statements that people want less from Europe, less integration, declarations that even call for certain policies to be placed back in the hands of the national authorities.
And therefore, Madam President, I believe that here today, at the beginning of the Austrian presidency, we must all congratulate ourselves on this European Parliamentary report which, once more, reaffirms its role as the voice of conscience, as a warning, against certain circumstances which today seem to advocate a hard-nosed, short-sighted Europe.
Now, against that hard-nosed, short-sighted Europe, the European Parliament is raising its voice, and that of its citizens, saying that Europe will come into being only through integration, and that, in contrast to the concept of the Europe of the markets, we have to ensure that the reality of the Amsterdam Treaty translates into a genuine citizens' Europe.
Madam President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur, and I am pleased that Parliament is once again advocating the implementation of the rights enshrined in the Treaty, in the framework of citizenship of the Union.
And it is not just legitimized indirectly via national governments and treaties, but also directly, personally and immediately, by giving all citizens a legal status.
Citizenship of the Union was, therefore, quite logically introduced in the Treaty on European Union to strengthen the protection of the rights and interests of the nationals of its Member States.
Consular protection is also virtually non-existent in practice.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his learned and thoughtful report and commend his European vision.
The Commission's second report on citizenship is therefore an important plank in building a corps d'esprit and a sense of European belonging.
I particularly welcome the right to vote and stand as a candidate at municipal elections in the European Parliament, although I would flag up the generous voting rights granted to Commonwealth citizens in the UK and urge there is no reorganization of this and no attempt to water down the rights which exist.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's debate is concerned with citizenship of the Union.
I think it is important that we ourselves should take on board citizenship of the Union, with everything that it implies, and give it serious thought.
This second report on citizenship of the Union covers 1994, 1995 and 1996.
In this report, the Commission has been at pains to describe and analyse the new rights conferred by the Maastricht Treaty, to investigate what progress has been made since the publication of its first report in 1993 and to indicate a series of objectives to be achieved.
Your motion for a resolution is rightly addressed to all interested institutions, and likewise to Member States.
Even today, at the Commissioners' meeting, the first part of the meeting was, in fact, dedicated to European citizenship.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Pinheiro.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, until a few years ago, the Internet was the preserve of specialists.
Fourth, material can be transferred from one computer to another easily and quickly, in just a few seconds.
The Action Plan that the Commission has now proposed to us claims to guarantee safe use of the Internet.
The fact that Members of the House yesterday received an advertisement for pornography in their e-mail - not a very good one, incidentally, and the price was far too high - shows the direction we are heading in.
After the embargo it became available on 53 servers on the Internet, because mirror sites were immediately set up around the globe.
The fact is, we can ultimately only solve the problem of illegal content by global agreements.
Global agreements on such things will face the same problems as we have with GATT: if the Community turns up with 15 different opinions, we will not get anywhere!
For that reason, we need to establish common standards, not only because of law enforcement within the European Union, but also because of the need for international agreements.
Madam President, the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this issue, with the amendments it has tabled, aims to promote the development and the adoption of efficient technical systems, the main aim of which, of course, is the protection of minors and human dignity, but also the strengthening of business and financial activity.
The trust of users, both individuals and businesses, of the Internet will create a favourable environment for the growth of business activity in the information society sector.
The second important issue in the opinion concerns the principles which must govern the actions to get rid of the harmful and illegal material on the Internet.
For this reason, I think that the European Union must aspire to a leading and active role in the process of instituting principles and technical models that are acceptable at global level.
The report complements the Commission's line by wanting to investigate the legal aspects of harmful and illegal material on the Internet.
According to a study by Interpol, the result of just two months' monitoring of the network revealed over 70 000 sights containing images of child pornography.
Because the Internet is a worldwide phenomenon, mere action on the part of Europe will not be sufficient in the struggle against child pornography.
But all this should not cause us to forget the fundamental issue that justifies our existence: our decisions must be rooted in the Treaty, the legal basis of our political acts.
My speech, therefore, will concentrate on the proposal put to us by the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the legal basis of the proposal for a decision be changed and that we use Article 129a relating to consumer protection, instead of Article 130 relating to the competitiveness of industry.
Madam President, there is no doubt that Article 130 tells us that measures will be taken to encourage an environment favourable to initiative and to the development of undertakings, and it is true that a better and safer environment will encourage industry.
But it is no less true, Madam President, that it is very difficult to apply the objectives of Article 130, for example, that of establishing the necessary conditions to make Community industry competitive, to actions intended to warn consumers about the content, be it sex or violence, on the Internet by creating self-regulation systems and setting up filter mechanisms.
Having examined this proposal for a decision, therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided that the appropriate legal basis is Article 129a, which allows us to take this kind of action to encourage and protect a safe environment for consumers in general terms.
Madam President, I would also mention that this change of legal basis gives this Parliament more of a leading role in the whole of this action, because Article 129a provides for the codecision procedure, whereas Article 130(2) merely provides for consultation.
And I think it is essential that on such a socially relevant and indeed burning issue this House should have a loud and strong voice, and not merely a consultative role.
While it might be obvious that there are areas where new codes must be written, for example, electronic signature specifically for use on the Internet, it is not obvious that new crimes will be committed on the Internet that have not already been invented and provided for in law.
I have problems with certain amendments, Amendments Nos 6 and 12, on the authorities responsible for the content of the Internet, and Amendment No 7, on the responsibility of the distributors, but I am sure that we will come back to this debate with other thoughts and experiences.
However, the Internet can be used for illegal activities and distribution of illegal contents.
Over the last year the Commission has worked hard with the Council, the European Parliament, Member States, industry and users to propose solutions.
The present action plan takes a non-regulatory approach, involves industry and proposes concrete measures to deal with the problems.
It implements a political consensus and ensures the follow-up of actions already undertaken at EU level and in Member States.
This approach has received strong support from the Bonn Conference, the Internet working party and the Council and European Parliament.
The action plan is not the only means for achieving these objectives.
It is a financial instrument that stimulates initiatives that must be addressed by Member States, the industry and users.
In fact, 20 of 24 amendments tabled are wholly acceptable to the Commission.
The need to adopt labelling systems is already stated in the recommendations on protection of minors and human dignity.
I again thank Parliament for its work and its response so far.
Parliament has already recognized the importance of dealing with these issues and I hope its decision will confirm the need for action by giving the action plan the full support needed to have a substantial effect.
The debate is closed.
Following the success of the first programme, which expired in 1996, we have been working on PACT II since last year.
Regarding the content of the regulation, we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism welcome the partial agreement of the Commission and the Council, particularly the inclusion of inland waterways and the reference to trans-European networks as a criterion for project selection.
A far higher level of funding for infrastructural measures for the central and eastern European countries was envisaged in Agenda 2000 for this period.
A good programme can always be made better if it both aims at synergies with other programmes and it supports other policy objectives.
However, we finally decided to reject the amendment because we believe that any support programme inevitably implies positive discrimination, in this case away from transporting goods exclusively by road and towards combined transport, and also in favour of regions and competitors who give priority to combined transport.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely for the excellent work he has done and to congratulate him on it.
The Commission's proposal on support for combined transport takes account of the fact that the European Union needs a reliable trans-European transport system to guarantee efficient trade and also mobility.
I would also like to mention that it is essential to integrate trans-European 'rail freight freeways' for the sake of environmentally sound development and to utilize trans-European transport networks.
Regrettable is not a strong enough word for the budget, which the Council has set at just ECU 35 million.
In my opinion, we have here a typical example of how the Council could have shown for once through deeds, rather than just through words, how we, in this Parliament, as a body support the idea of a general shift from road to railways and inland waterways.
It is a clear demonstration of Parliament's continuing commitment to promoting combined transport.
While we appreciate the constructive attitude of Parliament in this dossier, I am sorry to say that the Commission will only be able to accept two of the amendments, although this should not detract from the broad agreement that exists between Parliament, Council and the Commission.
Amendments Nos 1 and 4 seek to introduce, as Parliament proposed in the first reading and the Commission agreed, the notion of the trans-European rail freight freeways into the regulations.
Amendments Nos 2, 3, 5 and 6 seek to reintroduce the possibility of funding actions outside the European Union and of allowing non-EC companies to be beneficiaries of PACT funding.
Member States agree that the Community must help the candidate countries in their endeavours for a sustainable transport system.
In the same vein, the Commission cannot accept the topping up to ECU 43 million because this sum conflicts with the financial perspectives of the Community for PACT.
Let me close by again thanking Parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, for the interest taken in combined transport and for the valuable contribution it has made concerning these regulations.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Pinheiro.
The debate is closed.
