On the second amendment by the Socialist Group, I would like to explain, Madam President, that this paragraph 32 was modified by the Committee on Budgetary Control through an amendment introduced by one of our colleagues.
Ultimately it is the Member States that suffer through their membership contributions, Sweden contributing approximately 21 billion kronor gross and approximately 12 billion net.
The measures proposed must, however, be complemented by the national audit bodies and local and regional authorities also being involved in audits, especially where the Structural Funds are concerned.
That is why, as I said, this interim agreement, which implements the trade and economic policy sections of the Europe agreement at once and provides the legal base for bodies such as the Cooperation Council, which is now being turned into an Association Council, must enter into force on 1 January.
A free-trade area will be set up within six years at the most, and indeed we hope that in six years time this country may already be a member of the European Union and that the process will therefore be rather speedier.
The fact that our House is giving its assent to an agreement twice in the space of two months is a sign that we regard this country with its favourable macro-economic data as an essential component of the community of free Europeans.
The geographical situation of Slovenia shows us that Europe needs this country if it really wants to be united.
The entry into force of the interim agreement with Slovenia will allow that country to participate actively in the pre-accession strategy on an equal footing with other associated countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, since the name of the document is not very clear, permit me to point out that the SEM 2000 programme concerns basic aspects of democracy in the European Union, or at least of the democratic infrastructure of the Union.
Even the Council - une fois n'est pas coutume - cooperated and we were involved in the work of the personal representatives of ECOFIN in this area, and I would like this to be placed on the record.
The SEM 2000 programme is a programme comprising three successive phases - although there may be some overlapping in terms of time - and which has a multi-faceted structure since it attempts to tackle all the aspects relating to financial management.
These are set down under paragraph 5 of our motion for a resolution, therefore I will not linger on these.
The European Parliament believes that this should be extended to the other sectors, for instance by revising Articles 23 and 24 of the coordinating regulation governing the Structural Funds.
This brings us to the question of eligibility which was discussed in detail in the 1995 Court of Auditors' annual report.
Nonetheless I would like to point out that this problem is not peculiar to the Structural Funds; according to the same report, there was a backlog in payments for the PHARE (concerning the countries of Central and Eastern Europe) and TACIS (for the former Soviet Union) programmes amounting to almost three billion ECUs in 1995, in other words a year-and-ahalf's backlog of payments for our cooperation with the East.
This debate is about taking the argument much further than merely the fight against fraud to what needs to be done in order to ensure the sound and efficient use of all our resources.
As we give our support in this procedure to the Commission, we must encourage the Commission to make sure that the accounting procedures at the centre are properly integrated with all the accounting procedures in the Member States so that in future, when sound and efficient management is introduced by the Commission, it is done in such a way that no government of any Member State will be able to use the European Union as its alibi for its own domestic inefficiencies in the management of Union resources.
Madam President, Commissioner; fraud, wastage and poor control, ambiguous divisions of responsibilities, delays in making payments and poor cooperation between the EU and the Member States are some of the key concepts in descriptions of the mismanagement of EU resources.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 370 million citizens of this European Union have a right to know what happens to their taxes.
The initiative has been led, of course, by my colleagues, Commissioner Anita Gradin and Commissioner Erkki Liikanen.
Phase III has dealt with the management of the 80 % of the Community budget which is spent in the Member States.
The Court of Auditors' annual report and statement of assurance has emphasized that more needs to be done within the Commission and in the Member States, and Commissioners have made their active agreement with that view very clear.
On procedures and organization within the Commission, there is complete agreement between Parliament and the Commission on the need to achieve a balance between the management of financial and human resources and of policy and on the conviction that staff working in financial and resource management must be properly trained, properly motivated and appreciated in terms of career planning.
On financial liability of the Member States, clearance of accounts and financial correction, the Commission shares Parliament's view that the management of the structural funds must be closely scrutinized.
We believe, however, that rather than applying a clearance of accounts system on the lines of what is done for the EAGGF guarantee expenditure, it is better urgently to tackle the problem of defining eligible expenditure, in partnership with the Member States, and to take measures within the existing legal framework in order to strengthen financial management and clarify the responsibility of Member States and their designated authorities.
The success of the SEM 2000 will clearly depend, first and foremost, on motivating our staff and it will also depend, obviously, on having the effective cooperation of Member States - as honourable Members have said in the course of this debate - and on those Member States' dedication to handling Community funds with maximum efficiency.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
Mr Tomlinson, as you very well know, this is not a point of order.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to give you an idea of the importance of the sector we are dealing with this morning, and I think I have a duty to do so because when we talk about agriculture, industry and the economy in general, some sectors are considered important and strategic and so on, and in my opinion marginal sectors are left out.
The issue is that producers in the sector feel abandoned.
The proposal is moving in the right direction in that it provides measures to stimulate initiatives promoting European production by agreement with the Member States and producer organizations.
ECU 10 million is envisaged, compared with the ECU 60 million called for in the resolution Parliament passed last June, and corresponding to 4 per cent of the value of the sector, hence far less than what other agricultural sectors receive.
As you know, the Council of Ministers shares our opinion on the need to start in 1997 and envisages an allocation of ECU 15 million.
Thank you, Mr von Habsburg.
It goes without saying that they are producers, but they are also great consumers of flowers.
The GATT rules have reduced the tariff since July 1995, there are privileged relations with certain countries, in particular developing countries or those engaged in the fight against drugs, and there are also the relations with the GSP and Lomé Convention countries.
It is calculated that no duty is currently paid on 80 % of imported flowers.
ECU 15 million have been proposed for the first year, with total expenditure of ECU 60 million over the next few years, whereas the loss of profits due to preferential tariffs is valued at ECU 50 million per year by the producers' organization.
Thank you, Mr Santini.
And I must say again, Mr Mulder, that I am very surprised that you as a Liberal actually want to smear this flourishing market!
Of course that could also be done with third countries and would be a sensible measure.
The commercialisation of European floriculture is not going through a time of prosperity mainly because of the increase in competition which the European Union itself has fostered.
We have to show our support for the Filippi report which considerably improves the proposal for a regulation not only because it suggests a greater European Union contribution as of 1997, to support actions aimed at increasing the consumption of house plants and other Community floriculture products but also because it will make it possible for a single Member State to present and implement measures and activities aimed at developing this consumption and to receive help from the rest of the Community.
The proposal aims at developing national programmes in one or more Member States to promote demand both in the Community and elsewhere for live plants and flowers produced in the Community.
The Community budget would bear 60 % of the total cost of the programmes and the Commission expects these programmes to have a positive effect on farmers' incomes and throughout the marketing chain.
As it is important to use effectively all the available money in 1997 and to start the programmes without delay, a Council decision this year is obviously desirable.
So far as the amendments are concerned, Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 relate to Recital 1 and the Commission feels that its proposal is already sufficiently clear.
Similarly Amendment No 4 is already dealt with in the financial fiche of the proposal and detailed arrangements will figure in the implementing measures.
As for Amendment No 5, the Commission is happy to say that the Council is ready to increase the budget allocation to ECU 15m for 1997 from the ECU 10m originally proposed.
The debate is closed.
We have decided to abstain in the vote on this report since a proposal intended to support the horticultural industry with ECU 60 million seems unreasonable.
Mr Mulder, as you very well know, this is not a point of order.
Our Committee on Women's Rights consider it urgent that the 1976 directive which was used in the Kalanke ruling for the negative opinion be applied in such a way that positive action is specifically allowed.
I am also pleased to be able to announce that the Socialist Group has launched an offensive and even although we already have 20 % women in A grade posts we continue to work towards equality.
Our target, I think, should be 50 %.
Mr President, 44 % of working women, and in some Member States even more than half, are employed in the civil service, but when it comes to senior posts and fairly responsible jobs they remain under-represented, in spite of having excellent vocational qualifications and exam results.
It also points to the effects of the Kalanke ruling, which is often seen as a ruling against the promotion of equal opportunities.
Every third job in the party executive and parliament must be reserved to women in cases where women are not adequately represented.
We need to create a Community structure to ensure these laws are transposed at Member State level.
For instance, widening the scope of Article 119 could safeguard the equal rights of women and men.
I think that paragraphs 17 and 18 of the report are particularly important in our attempt to improve women's lot.
Paragraph 18 is particularly important when it comes to the burden of proof on equal pay and equal treatment for men and women.
Bearing in mind the existence of recommendations, Community action programmes on equality, the promotion of positive action for women, the Convention on the removal of discriminatory terms and resolutions both by Parliament and by the United Nations, it is paradoxical that the real situation for women regarding employment, and in this particular case, even more unacceptably, employment in the public service, is still unequal.
The concept of mainstreaming or the need to take equality into account in every area runs the risk of remaining a mere word if there is not attempt to put it into practice at every level.
In those sections where few women are employed, it is very difficult to implement equality plans, even when this is compulsory in a Member State.
The Member States should adopt legislation to put the departments within the public service on the same level, including promotion schemes, the appointment of delegates responsible for equal opportunities and encouragement for the setting up of selection, promotion and recruitment bodies consisting equally of both sexes, while ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is observed and that these measures are in keeping with the general framework laid down in Community law.
To conclude, Mr President, in my capacity as a man, I would like to underline a premise without which no current or planned measure can ensure equality: from the legal point of view we cannot improve the situation of women at work and in society unless we have already made it possible to reconcile family and professional life and to redistribute responsibilities in a spirit of solidarity.
Mr President, this resolution is almost perfect.
Naturally I am pleased by the convergence of views between Parliament and the Commission on the promotion of positive action for women and on the way in which the public sector can have a catalytic effect on awareness and serve as a model for the development of positive actions in the private sector.
As the House will know, and several speakers have already said, the Kalanke judgment of the Court of Justice in October 1995 generated controversy, to say the least, throughout Europe about the legitimacy of quotas and of other forms of positive action that are aimed at increasing the number of women in particular sectors or levels of employment.
And since the Commission patently must respect the law, the text that we produced clearly reflected our view that positive action measures - short of rigid quotas - are permitted by Community law, and Member States and employers are therefore free to use such measures.
The Commission welcomes the many suggestions for improvement that have been put forward in the report from this House.
The report before the House highlights issues that the Commission has already taken up in the framework of the Fourth Action Programme on equal opportunities.
Naturally, I would like to emphasize that the Commission has already initiated the main-streaming of equality between women and men in all appropriate Community policies and actions.
As far as the Commission's policy for its own personnel is concerned, the House will know that since 1988 the Commission has adopted two positive action programmes.
The current Commission with its group of Commissioners on equal opportunities and women's rights looks upon equal opportunities as a priority both inside and outside the Commission.
Ambitious female recruitment and nomination targets for 1995 and 1996 go further than those established within the present positive action programme and also take account of enlargement priorities.
Indeed, in these last two years, the Commission has recruited 51 % of women from the new Member States and approximately 30 % from the Twelve.
It has improved its information strategies for external competitions in order to make career descriptions more women-friendly and it has ensured as far as possible the presence of women in selection panels.
We know that huge changes are taking place in society and that women rightly want to be much more active in the labour market at all levels.
The issue of equal opportunities between women and men needs to be given a strong impetus for many reasons, not least the need to achieve and implement more active policies in favour of the integration of women into the labour market at every level in their own right and on the basis of completely just assessment of merit and no other consideration.
I am glad that Mrs Van Dijk has raised the question and indeed raised it in this form.
The debate is closed.
I also regret the fact that many men are often not interested in this important question.
Mention was made of the public services, and one of the most important public services men and women can render is public service in the family.
Tomorrow his mother will be receiving a badge in honour of 50 years' membership of a party, my party, the CDU.
Thank you, Mr Schulz.
Otherwise we would end up with a situation where all women were employed in public institutions, and all men of 10 years standing were private employees.
