I am sure the House will join you in expressing sympathy and condolences, Mr Cornelissen.
It is my own fault, but I was hoping that you could perhaps vouch for the fact that I was present, thereby correcting my mistake.
Madam President, could you express to the British Government the outrage of Members of this House at the treatment meted out to protesters in Garvaghy Road, Portadown, last week and the fact that small sections of the community should bring commercial life in Northern Ireland to a standstill. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Decision on urgency Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, I would ask all colleagues to vote in favour of this urgent procedure.
In my report on agricultural prices, I proposed a 10 % reduction in setaside, which seemed at the time to diverge significantly from the Commission's proposal.
Now the Commission is sensibly proposing 5 %, and that is what farmers are now expecting.
But we must vote on the Gillis report this week, because the Council meeting early next week, on 22 and 23 July, will need to ratify our decision.
The old European Community Treaty already included provisions for the creation of a common internal market in Europe.
Parliament has consistently expressed the view that this concept obviously includes the right of free movement without frontier controls between the countries of the European Union, or the European Community as it was then.
The other two proposals concern the elimination of controls on persons, and freedom of movement for thirdcountry nationals who are lawfully in the territory of the European Union.
This follows naturally because it is obvious that, unless they check identity documents, border officials cannot determine whether a person is a third-country national lawfully in the territory of the European Union or a citizen of the European Union.
We are therefore entitled to effective involvement in the decision on workers' freedom to travel and the exercise of their right of establishment and right to provide services.
In my view, this is not legally acceptable, because the legal basis for the Lehne report and the corresponding Commission proposal is Article 48 and subsequent articles of the Treaty, which define citizens' rights.
Madam President, I should like to say that I am pleased on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to participate in this joint debate on the Lehne report, my own report on the Council directive on the elimination of controls on persons crossing internal frontiers and on the Linzer report.
Unfortunately in the European Union, while the first three flow freely, there has been much more resistance to the free movement of people.
It is absolutely vital for the future of the Union that the people of Europe - if you want the prime group constituting the European Union - be allowed to move freely around the Union itself.
But more importantly, in terms of the accompanying measures, the external frontiers directive is linked to the British/Spanish dispute over Gibraltar.
The more the Commission's and Parliament's proposals vary from these clear principles the more difficulty the Socialist Group will have in supporting them.
I also agree with Mr Lehne on the draft joint action proposal that has come forward in the last few days.
This has clearly complicated matters and perhaps we need to take all three reports back to committee to see how the new proposal on the draft joint action programme impinges upon them.
The aim of the report is, at long last, to enable third-country nationals who are lawfully in a Member State, and family members of European Union citizens who do not have citizenship of a Member State, to travel more easily for short stays in the territory of other Member States.
I have already established for my report that the Commission proposal will not, in effect, mean any significant change in the situation on the ground.
Given that virtually no frontier controls are now carried out and, in fact, controls between the Schengen countries have generally been abolished, the real aim of this Commission proposal, which is based on Article 100 of the EC Treaty, is to create an appropriate legal context for a situation that already exists in practice.
My report is based on one of three Commission proposals referred to the committee, which were drawn up with a view to fulfilling the obligations imposed by Article 7a of the EC Treaty.
Article 7a deals with the establishment of the internal market by 31 December 1992.
I would remind you that this is 1996, and it is only now that the House is discussing these three Commission proposals for fulfilling the obligations to which I have referred.
Although it has taken more than three and a half years to bring practical proposals from the Commission before the House, we are grateful that we now have them.
A gap in the overall concept of the internal market will also mean a loss of confidence among the great majority of European citizens.
Clearly, the Commission cannot do without these accompanying measures if it is to have the support of the Member States, but in my view the two sets of issues should be considered separately.
Madam President, the proposals of the Commission in this area are to be welcomed.
Article 48 of the Treaty of Rome laid down a fundamental right for free movement of its citizens.
Many people want to come to Europe to see our cultural heritage and this I believe is an important part of our economy and also our links with the rest of the world.
Madam President, like other Members I welcome the Commission's three proposals to make a reality out of free movement.
I am speaking specifically on the Linzer report on the right of third country nationals to travel.
The object of this proposal is to harmonize national provisions concerning the right of third country nationals to travel and remain within the territory of the Union.
At the present time this type of journey is governed by divergent national provisions, most of which require third country nationals legally present in the territory of another Member State to obtain visas.
This is an insult to third country nationals who are living legally and subject to the proper conditions in the Member State, and some of these nationals can be second or third generation third country nationals.
For example, in my own country Pakistani and Indian citizens often prefer, for reasons of relations at home, to keep their Pakistani or Indian nationality.
They will be living in the UK all their lives, yet they have to apply for visas to travel to some Member States of the European Union.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has two concerns.
The Treaty has a formulation - which has been tried and tested through the European Court - which allows expulsion for threats to public order or public security, but we have never seen this expression 'threat to international relations' before.
I hope the Commission will consider withdrawing that phrase as requested both by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
This would mean that third country nationals, for example, could be expelled simply because a third country complained about their presence in a European Union Member State's territory.
Our committee insisted, above all, that it should be made quite clear in the text of both reports that, whilst the Commission proposals on the abolition of controls on individuals at the European Union's internal frontiers are good schemes - the submission of which, though belated, our committee welcomes, since a happy event never comes too late - this does not mean that their provisions can be made subject to the adoption or implementation of accompanying measures relating to the external frontiers convention, or any other measures.
And our committee welcomes the fact that the relevant amendments have made it quite clear in both the Ford and Linzer reports that the provisions in question constitute a clear obligation on the part of the European Union, which cannot in any way be made subject to such conditions.
Finally, the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment insisted that the implementation of these provisions be accompanied by an extensive information campaign.
There is a need for all citizens to be made aware of these effective measures.
This proves that, in effect, when the political will exists on the part of the Member States, there is indeed free movement of persons, whatever concerns and reservations one might have.
The package presented by the Commission goes in the right direction, but in my opinion the accompanying measures are still being used by the Member States as an excuse for their own serious lack of political will.
With regard to the opinion assigned to me by the Committee on Civil Liberties, concerning the abolition of restrictions on movement and residence within the Community for workers of Member States and their families, I believe that it is necessary to consider whether the proposal for a directive is comprehensive enough as regards the problem of free movement for nationals of non-member countries who are legally resident, whether they are directly or indirectly entitled; to consider the possibility of issuing a single list of residence permits on the basis of the four or five directives which already exist, duly published in the Official Journal and conferring the right of free movement of persons; to consider whether these entitled persons who are not nationals of a Member State will have the same rights as a Community national; and, finally, to consider whether to introduce an amendment to this end.
After the delays which caused the conflict between Parliament and the Council and Commission, we are now debating these reports because of initiatives taken by the Commissioner, who is with us here today: initiatives which, though commendable, are insufficient.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the actual date by which freedom of movement in Europe ought to have been made a reality was 1 January 1993.
There are certain Member States that are not fulfilling their obligations under the Treaty.
It must be clear, in future, that by crossing an external frontier into a Member State of the European Union, a person acquires freedom of movement throughout the Union.
This means that the country which allows a person to enter across its external frontier also becomes responsible for that person's freedom of movement in the Union as a whole.
It should be noted here that we seek this freedom of movement not only for citizens of the European Union, but also for citizens of third countries who are legally resident in the Union.
It seems strange in this situation that, just when the Commission is doing what Parliament asked it to do by submitting appropriate proposals - and Commissioner Monti's proposals have our unqualified support - and just when we are reaching a position on those proposals, some entirely new ideas should be published in Council circles.
We wish everyone in Europe to have freedom of movement as soon as possible, and those whose fault it is that such freedom is not yet in place must now be called to account.
Madam President, the three proposals for directives now before us are the Commission's response to the proceedings brought against it by Parliament in the European Court of Justice for its failure to act in the field of the free movement of persons within the European Union.
Realizing that these proposals touch on important issues in the fields of immigration and internal security, the Commission has written into them accompanying measures which it regards as essential for maintaining a high level of security in an area without internal frontiers.
However, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has not only rejected an amendment by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the aim of which was to provide a list of these accompanying measures, but has also adopted amendments stating that the free movement of persons cannot be made contingent on the implementation of those measures.
And certain Member States, for a variety of reasons, are not prepared to call into question these accompanying measures, which fall under the third pillar.
Furthermore, in its report on the draft directive on the abolition of restrictions on movement and residence within the Community for nationals of Member States with regard to establishment and the provision of services, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights proposes the deletion of Article 3(3), for the reason that it conflicts with Article 6 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
Madam President, this debate concerns one of the fundamental aspects of the European Union: the free movement of persons.
We had freedom of movement for goods, services and capital, but not for people.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party supports the proposal for a directive on the right to travel of nationals of non-member countries who are legally established in the Union.
The Liberal Group finds it entirely understandable that these various measures and the directives before us should be linked in this way, because people want to see border controls abolished, but they also want measures to be taken to prevent any increase in crime.
Madam President, I should like to make a number of comments on the three proposals for directives.
The first is that Parliament's position has always been that, in order to make the free movement of persons a reality, all restrictions on travel and residence must be removed.
In the particular case of workers and their families, the Member States have an obligation to eliminate controls at internal frontiers.
However, the corresponding Commission proposal makes a right enshrined in the Treaties subject to new conditions, on the grounds that accompanying measures must be introduced in order to make possible the abolition of these controls.
This is unacceptable, to the extent that it means, in practice, postponing the elimination of controls at internal frontiers - in other words, maintaining surreptitiously precisely that which we are purporting to abolish.
Implementation of the Schengen Convention has demonstrated that it is quite possible to eliminate controls without introducing accompanying measures; and to promote such measures is to undermine the right to free movement.
Otherwise, there will be an inconsistency between the free movement of capital and goods and that of persons.
As a final comment, the proposals for directives make the right to free movement contingent upon preconditions which do not appear in the Treaty, although the abolition of controls is a clear and unconditional obligation on the part of the Union.
But freedom and security go hand in hand.
Madam President, this debate today is surreal.
The Commission tells us bluntly that, whatever the circumstances, the elimination of controls is 'an unconditional obligation which derives from Article 7a of the Treaty' , and that it must dismantle all controls at internal frontiers, ' whatever their form, and whatever their justification' .
And the fixed controls at internal borders have a part to play in stopping this trafficking, as the recent seizure of 106 kilograms of heroin at Calais, with the help of a French customs scanner - an instrument which is, by definition, fixed - has just made clear.
Thirdly, the Member States must retain control of their territory, in order to be able to exercise the national rights which a number of Treaty articles - for example, Articles 36, 48 and 100a - rightly recognize them to have.
The proposals for directives which the Commission is presenting to us today are therefore totally inappropriate.
Furthermore, the Member States must agree not to eliminate the controls at the Union's internal frontiers, but to improve them, supplementing the concept of fixed controls with that of a territorial filtering strip - as proposed, in France, in the recent report by Senator Paul Masson.
The situation with regard to these directives on the abolition of the Union's internal frontiers is exactly parallel.
Madam President, do you by any chance have any explanation to give me about the request I made as Chair of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs for the Council to attend this debate?
Madam President, regardless of the fates which these directives might be reserved a word of thanks to Commissioner Monti and Rapporteurs Ford and Linzer on the excellent work they have carried out so far.
Madam President, the situation which we are experiencing now in this House in respect of these reports and the initiative by Commissioner Monti on the freedom of movement is, thanks to the Council, quite awful from an ethical point of view and an attack on the European Parliament's rights from an institutional point of view.
When finally after many years of doing nothing the Commission finally presented the European Parliament with three proposals for directives aimed at creating an internal market for persons and the European Parliament, as a consequence and following a number of months of debate, laboriously expressed its opinion, look what the Council did, on the sidelines of the legislative process enshrined in the first pillar, without letting the European Parliament know and without the slightest respect for the work it carries out: it has now taken a parallel initiative based on intergovernmental logic with scant regard for the efforts of the Commission and this House to achieve the first of all Community freedoms: the freedom of movement.
In the corridors and without any transparency or any parliamentary control, both at European and national levels, the Council is preparing - in the very week in which our Plenary is taking place and dealing with hope and seriousness with a fundamental legislative package for European citizens - to empty of any meaning the Commission initiative and the Parliament opinion and offer citizens an empty charade of legislation packaged up in a joint action by the Council.
Madam President, this incident is one of the most serious and gross violations of inter-institutional dialogue.
Either the Council should do so very quickly and make all of its proposals quite clear or the European Parliament should use all political and legal means possible to denounce or to confront the Council and to make it assume its responsibility.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as other speakers have already said, there are four freedoms in the internal market.
Madam President, freedom to travel is probably the most important element in creating the internal market as an area without internal frontiers.
Implementing this fundamental freedom will meet the expectations of many citizens of the Member States.
It is therefore all the more important that no one - and particularly not those people - should be treated as a second-class citizen within the Union, not least at the internal frontiers.
Amongst the measures needed to counter any possible increase in crime after the removal of all the controls, and to prevent illegal immigration by third-country nationals who are already in the Union illegally, are more intensive cooperation by police forces and social services, and the effective exchange of information through Europol.
Madam President, only last month an elderly woman of 76 was, in my view, illegally arrested on a train from London to Brussels, held overnight in a cell and put back on a train the following day because it was alleged that she had not brought with her what was claimed by the Belgian authorities to be a necessary document, namely a passport.
That is something without which the European Union cannot operate.
The so-called accompanying measures and the Schengen Agreement are both excuses for trying to avoid the central issue of Article 7a.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has always adopted a very clear position on the issue of the free movement of persons, based on two principles to which other speakers have referred.
I wish to speak mainly in relation to the Linzer report and I very much welcome some of the changes that have been made by way of amendment.
In particular, I want to stress the importance of the amendment to remove the reference in the report and in the Commission proposals to the right of Member States to expel third country nationals, not only if they represent a threat to public order or public security but also if they represent a threat to Member States' international relations.
This is a very dangerous proposal; it has been exploited by certain governments - including my own - to expel people who are protesting about the denial of human rights and the very serious problems in certain countries in the world which have obnoxious, racist and militaristic regimes.
These people have been threatened with expulsion owing to their activities in drawing world attention to these problems because the country concerned fears that that will affect its trade, or some other aspect of its relations.
Finally, there are certain difficulties for the British Labour Members in relation to these reports, and we will have to await the outcome of the vote on the various amendments before deciding whether we can or not support them, or whether we may have to abstain.
Madam President, I can understand that there are some people who are starting to become impatient to do away with the controls at the internal borders, but we have to realize that, for good reason, it is precisely this part of the internal market which is the hardest to put into effect.
That is why, back in July 1995, I had the Commission adopt the proposals now before Parliament.
Certainly not, in my view.
For this reason, the Commission will accept only those amendments whose purpose is to safeguard the legal basis of the proposals, in the Community's best interests, and to improve or clarify the wording in keeping with the logic and discipline of the proposed texts.
With regard to the proposal for a directive on the elimination of controls on persons crossing the internal frontiers, the Commission was concerned, as I have already said, to make it clear that it did not intend to promote freedom to the detriment of security.
There is a link, however, and it is more political than legal in nature, since our citizens do have concerns about security.
The Commission therefore cannot accept those amendments which eliminate all links between these two aspects: freedom on the one hand, and security on the other.
The Commission can accept four of the other five amendments, in other words Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5 and 6, since they are aimed at consolidating the legal basis of the proposal.
Finally, as regards the proposal for a directive on the right of third-country nationals to travel within the Community, the Commission intends to accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5, 9 and part of Amendment No 10, as well as Amendments Nos 15 and 18.
There is no need to remind the House that this proposal has been subject to particular scrutiny in the Council, no doubt for two reasons: firstly, the part of the proposal for a directive concerning the equivalence between residence permits and visas, for people who are resident in a Member State of the Union, could be adopted and enter into force even before internal border controls have been eliminated; and, secondly, this is the proposal which best lends itself, in terms of its legal basis, to being transferred from the first to the third pillar.
I shall conclude by recalling once again what I hope goes without saying for all of us: free movement within the Union must be indistinguishable from free movement within our countries.
In the course of Council business, the presidency put forward an initiative of its own at the meeting of Steering Group I on 8 and 9 July.
However, in view of the importance which I attach to this problem, I admit that this new initiative worries me personally for more than one reason.
In fact, my concerns are threefold, and relate both to the link with our proposal for a directive on the right to travel, and to the content of the initiative and its legal basis.
Starting with the legal basis, I would recall that the Commission has always felt that the proposal on the right to travel is so inextricably linked with the question of the single market that the only appropriate legal basis is Article 100 of the Treaty.
In reality it will merely allow a third-country citizen to present himself at the border, armed with a residence permit but without a visa.
Furthermore, this is a step back from the Schengen Convention, which already confers this right to travel.
So, from a proposal for a directive whose purpose is to abolish controls at internal borders, we are moving to a legal instrument which will make it essential to keep those same controls in place.
For my part, I would invite you, the European Parliament, to determine your own clear position on this problem.
I would add that the general action plan to eradicate BSE, which was proposed by the Commission and made an agreement possible in Florence, also establishes a direct link between any resumption of exports and the elimination of all risks to human health.
I admit that the discovery of the note by a Commission official of October 1990, which appeared to lend credence to the theory of a disinformation strategy, did cause me great concern - a concern which I made clear to you, moreover, at the time of my last appearance before the European Parliament, in Brussels in May.
The Deputy Director-General responsible for veterinary services, who attended the meeting of the Standing Veterinary Committee on that day, has confirmed to us that he personally said nothing at that or any other meeting which could be interpreted as the outline of a disinformation policy to be conducted by the Commission.
In any event, the Commission should be judged on its actions.
Does organizing a conference of this kind and publishing its results in their entirety, ladies and gentlemen, constitute a disinformation strategy?
I do not intend to review at present what has been done since 1990 to combat BSE.
The Commission has systematically based its proposed measures on the best available scientific advice.
Next week, moreover, a new veterinary inspection team will be going to the United Kingdom, and I have asked it to pay particular attention to ensuring strict compliance with Community legislation and the strengthening of physical controls in ports.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addressing this issue, we shall not allow ourselves to be diverted from our approach: public health is our prime concern, and the latest scientific evidence is our only guide.
Admittedly, the official responsible in 1990 may well be in retirement.
Admittedly, it is probable that no Commissioner saw the note in 1990.
It reveals, firstly, an attitude which is frequently condemned by the Socialist Group, but which rarely appears in such a cynical form: the attitude that the market is the paramount consideration - which is equivalent to saying that anything else, in this case the protection of public health, is of secondary importance.
We shall, of course, be adopting a resolution, but that is not enough: our group will be considering the appropriateness of calling for a committee of inquiry.
In any event, it could be said that if there were ever a case in which, pursuant to Rule 136, a committee of inquiry should be set up, it is this - in order to investigate whether there has indeed been an instance of maladministration, or even negligence, in the treatment of this matter by the Commission and the Member State in question.
It is in everyone's interests to ensure maximum clarity, in order to restore confidence in the European and national authorities: the confidence of farmers, but above all the confidence of the Union's citizens and consumers.
The decisions taken in 1990 should have been implemented by December 1991, and you know what has happened up to now.
But I would also say this: as far as I am aware, a committee of inquiry would bring nothing new before the House.
For that reason, Mr Santer, I would ask whether you can give the House an assurance that, as well as the internal inquiries which you have made about the written note, you will also examine whether the Commission staff have actually done all they could in recent years to secure implementation of the directives and regulations that have been adopted, and to what extent the necessary controls have been carried out in the Member States.
It has the feeling that the matter is still being treated as a sectoral problem, when in fact it is the whole functioning of the Community institutions which is at issue.
However, we had to wait until 1994 before legislation prohibiting the use of meat-based meal was adopted at European level.
For we know that in this sector too, the Member States' controls are inadequate.
Fifthly, by making available the financial resources that are necessary, on the one hand to eradicate the disease and, on the other, to rescue operators in the beef and veal sector.
The third point my group feels is important is to restore the balance in the market for beef.
There must also be fair competition with other measures.
That situation continued for four years, during which almost 75 % of the declared cases of BSE were recorded.
The Commission must explain the reasons for its lack of action during the period from 1990 to 1994.
The scientific basis for lifting the ban on gelatine is unclear, and the Commission has not provided us with the information requested in paragraph 6 of Parliament's resolution of last June.
Experience has shown that when decisions are determined by economic - or indeed political - considerations, the consequences are grave.
In the past, important decisions have been determined by the will to complete the single market or ensure the success of a summit.
And there are also responsibilities.
In the view of the European United Left, there is a need to set up a committee of inquiry to establish responsibility for the creation and development of this problem, and especially to ensure that the decisions taken in the future safeguard public health.
However, we already have experience of what happens when decisions are postponed or adopted in a half-hearted way.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Fischler, the BSE disaster is a chain of misconduct, political misjudgement, and failure to assume political responsibility.
The question of a committee of inquiry is also a question of how rigorous future measures will be.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, this week, Parliament will decide - or at least I hope so - to set up a committee of inquiry to shed light on certain aspects of the issue of so-called mad cow disease.
For whatever the merits of your statement, Mr President of the Commission, there is a need for persons outside the Commission to carry out an investigation - and through a procedure in which both sides are heard.
And if we wish to maintain the credibility and authority of the Commission - and our group very much wishes to do so, Mr President - it is essential not only for an inquiry to be carried out to investigate past events, but also to provide for reforms within the Commission and in the Commission's relations with the Member States, in order to ensure that similar cases of negligence or mistakes do not occur again in future.
Mr President of the Commission, Mr President of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time since 27 March, we are required to debate in plenary the problem of mad cow disease and its consequences.
And Mrs Poisson asked the Commission a single question: what has the Commission done since 1990?
On 3 June, my colleague Mr des Places made a call for genuine solidarity with cattle breeders, and for those responsible - in the cattle-feed manufacturing industry, in governments and in the Community institutions - to be identified.
Commissioner Fischler did not furnish him with a reply on this point.
The Commission's planned measures will cover only 20 % of the losses suffered by our cattle breeders.
No, Mr President, it was not an insignificant note.
On the other hand, I have to say that although it might be in the interests of some people in the Community to blame the Commission for this, it has actually had a very good record by comparison, for example, with the behaviour of the British Government, which has been trying to sit on information on BSE for at least as long.
Even when the pressure for information became overwhelming on 20 March 1996 and every newspaper, television station and radio programme in Europe carried news of nothing else, the British Government never showed any signs of being willing or able to give us the information that the public had a right to know all along.
The committee of inquiry, if it is set up, must be seen as a positive contribution to a European solution for this whole crisis.
Mr President it is not often I share a short straw with my colleague, Ken Collins, but following the previous speaker, I not only contradict him, but I contradict some of the points that Ken Collins has been making.
This of course has had a devastating effect on cattle farmers, cattle farmers throughout Europe, and the clean beef prices have been dramatically affected in the market place.
Irrespective of this of course we have seen - and reference has been made to this by almost every speaker - that assertions on the existence of an internal Commission paper from October 1990, referring to existing health risks concerning BSE, appeared in the media of several Member States, as well as reports on illegal exports of beef from the United Kingdom.
The President of the Commission has given us a very firm answer from the Commission on these two points, and therefore I would not wish to dwell on them.
I would like, if I may, to thank Commissioner Fischler for his contribution and in particular, if I may say so on a more personal basis, for his contribution at our Royal Agricultural Show a few weeks ago, when he was able to meet many farmers and was able in meeting them to restore some confidence among them about what the Commission was doing.
Mr President, I have followed this matter since March of this year.
As a result, safety procedures have been improved.
If we want our beef market to recover we must match our resolute deeds with reasoned words.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, dura lex sed lex .
When it comes to tackling a disaster such as the BSE crisis which has afflicted the United Kingdom, especially when this disaster affects a community as large as Europe, one must disregard one's own interests and be resolute, mature and worthy of living in a civil and democratic environment, especially when that community - in a spirit of cooperation - has attempted to assist the Member State concerned, albeit somewhat late in the day.
I would point out that the worldwide embargo on British beef is being circumvented by illegal, clandestine exports of beef from that country and, furthermore, that Parliament is still awaiting the outcome of the Commission's inquiry into these accusations.
To ask the United Kingdom officially not to publish the results of its research, or to implement a policy of disinformation with regard to BSE, is quite simply to commit an act of madness that is totally out of place in the community based on the rule of law which is the European Union.
We can express our regret at the situation in the beef and veal sector, the growth of stocks by 600 000 tonnes and the 11 % fall in consumption.
Today, six years later, and in spite of this policy - the duration of which, and who was responsible for it, must be established by the inquiry for which we are calling - we are faced with a much worse situation.
The content of the note in question amounts to turning immorality into a commercial rule.
It is in this spirit that we have encouraged the British Government to propose a set of measures designed to eradicate BSE - essentially so as to restore consumer confidence, which is necessary before a progressive lifting of the ban can be considered.
As I said earlier, less than a month afterwards, a conference which brought together 200 scientists from throughout the world was held in Brussels, with a view to determining the implications of the BSE crisis.
The Commission has contributed financially to this research, and it was the research centre in Edinburgh - partly financed by Commission funds - which initiated the crisis of 20 and 21 March this year.
Mr Fayot was right to call for openness and to say that it is the credibility not only of the Commission, but of all the Community institutions which is at stake.
As a result, it is in all our interests - Parliament and the Commission - that there should be as much transparency as possible on this issue, in which the Commission genuinely has nothing to hide.
However - and I think this is important - I have also asked UCLAF to investigate the suspicions and, in particular, I have asked the British Agriculture Minister to look into the suspicious circumstances once again.
Turning now to the second accusation, about the note by a Commission official, I would say that both the holding of a major conference one month later and the fact that between 1990 and 1992 the Standing Veterinary Committee and the Scientific Veterinary Committee dealt with BSE-related issues on more than twenty occasions are indications that the Commission could not have intended to take the approach which has been suggested.
I should like to make a further point in this context, because it concerns something which often causes confusion among the public: the fact that the committee is known as the Veterinary Committee does not mean that it is solely concerned with animal health issues: the vets have a worldwide responsibility for ensuring meat hygiene and, consequently, public health.
Finally, I should like to point out that our Scientific Veterinary Committee includes not only vets, but also representatives of other branches of science, particularly human medicine.
With your permission, I shall deal briefly with a fact which was reported in the media today and which concerns our decision on gelatine.
Mr President, I should simply like to point out that the decision reached by the Commission was based on the scientific documentation available at the time, and the Scientific Veterinary Committee also delivered its opinion on that basis.
In the meantime, on 26 June, we received a new, additional report.
One further important point is the reorganization of our rendering industry in all the Member States.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would, however, make one point: at the February part-session, Parliament referred this proposal back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
Mr Langen, as rapporteur, do you now wish to vote to reject the draft legislative resolution?
Mr President, the Commission proposal has been rejected: our vote on it was quite clear.
Mr President, I agree with the two previous speakers that what the Council of Ministers is doing here is wrong.
Security firms are already employing migrant workers without papers.
The Green Group is disappointed that the European Parliament has decided not to reject the common position established by the Council on groundhandling in EU airports.
The Committee on Transport voted recently that the position should be rejected and in our view Parliament should have voted likewise.
The Council has shown itself to be completely unwilling to take on board the concerns which Parliament expressed during the groundhandling debate last year.
As a result, the proposed directive is vague and weak from the point of view of social protection of workers and non-committal in terms of guaranteeing uniform safety standards.
Market liberalization for groundhandling services is not an idea which originated with users of airports or from workers but from the larger transport companies who are eager to reduce costs and operate more flexibly.
As a bare minimum, it is necessary that workers are consulted before decisions affecting them are taken.
It proposes that each Member State set up a user committee to oversee implementation of the directive in each airport affected but there is no provision for workers in groundhandling services to be represented at that committee.
Market liberalization also cannot be allowed to usher in a more liberal safety regime in EU airports.
It is patently obvious, therefore, that vital issues such as safety and protection of workers have not been addressed by the Council.
Langen report I have voted against this report because I do not believe that the option of local and regional purchasing and procurement for local needs is sufficiently provided for.
In this report, Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is recommending the rejection of the Commission's proposal to amend the existing directive coordinating the procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors.
The committee's recommendation is solely based on a wish to make it entirely clear which undertakings and sectors have to respect the guidelines on procurement proposed by the Commission, without being covered by the GPA.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) Trans-European transport network The next item is the report (A4-0232/96) by Mr Piecyk, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council Decision (C4-0364/96-94/0098(COD)) on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network.
Mr President, with the trans-European transport networks, a number of the Union's basic ideas and fundamental policies are being brought together and translated into action.
Then there is Jacques Delors' White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment, with its idea of creating jobs and making a major contribution to the fight against mass unemployment in Europe through a large-scale Community effort - particularly in the area of transport infrastructure projects.
I am convinced that practical policies designed to achieve the three goals of strengthening economic and social cohesion - and thus the consolidation of the internal market - establishing a pro-active employment policy, and developing a transport policy in which environmental policies are seen not as a necessary evil, but as an essential component of a modern transport policy, will secure the approval of Europe's citizens, for whom our work is frequently something abstract and impenetrable.
During what is now almost two years of negotiations on the transport networks, Parliament has endeavoured to make these ideas prevail.
And, in my view, the role played by the Council in the conciliation procedure has been pitiful.
This, at least, is what the minister indicated that it would do at today's meeting of the committee.
My group will support the conciliation agreement reached after long, tedious hours of negotiation.
Parliament was very keen to get an agreement and the Commission helped in this.
We see the importance of the TENs, not only in transport infrastructure terms but also in terms of job creation for the people of the European Union.
The Council should be aware of that and should also be aware that Parliament has its rights under codecision and expects those rights to be respected.
We have to be practical; we have to be aware of the need for TENs, in infrastructure terms and in job-creation terms and in getting people and goods moving throughout the European Union.
The fact is that the common position as finally formulated creates a serious institutional problem which is harmful to relations between Parliament and the Council, given that via the common position the Council is refusing, in breach of the letter and spirit of Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty, to grant Parliament the right of co-decision in the establishment of priorities for the major projects of the trans-European network.
The European People's Party, for which I speak, will decide on its voting intention this evening.
It was purely a representation of the economic interests of a specific group within the European Union.
The text we have before us today certainly does not live up to the expectations of Parliament, which could perhaps have achieved more and pushed through the proposals it considered best for the territory and the citizens of the Union which it represents.
Article 20, on combined transport and new traffic management techniques, is particularly welcome.
Although the final text is not quite what we would have wished for, largely because of the lack of cooperation from the Council, which is reluctant to accept the new role of the European Parliament and is not adjusting to the codecision procedure, my group will vote in favour of this project, since we believe it is important that Parliament should support this joint decision.
The Council has refused responsibility for the environment.
We hope of course that there will be many who do the same, because the environment is the future, whether we like it or not.
Creating jobs in environmentally friendly sectors and shifting taxes from labour to the environment will create long-term employment, and at the same time provide us with a more pleasant society in which to live.
We might perhaps have adopted a more prudent strategy, without referring back specifically to the political decision taken at Essen; doing that - in my opinion - allowed the Council to adopt its position, with the result that for a moment we actually believed the words of the President-in-Office, Mr Dini.
Even though our group will vote in favour of the Piecyk report, it recognizes that we have achieved very little.
Furthermore, I really would ask Members to think very carefully before they stand up in this public chamber and accuse anybody, never mind a President-in-Office, of being a liar.
However, the question arises of whether Parliament can approve the Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network when Parliament has had little say in the matter, when not even 30 % of Parliament's amendments have been accepted by the Council, and when the compromise reached gives precedence to the large number of projects listed in Annexes I and II over the fourteen most important projects selected by the European Council at the Essen summit of 9 and 10 December 1994, thus applying the principle of giving everyone a slice of the cake.
Indeed, the legal character of Annex III, which deals with these priority projects, is seriously undermined by this new approach.
The European Parliament must insist on the need for real codecision on the priority projects of common interest.
Although codecision is a procedure between Parliament and the Council, the Council - to our minds - understands it as being between Parliament and COREPER, and this means that a certain irritation becomes apparent at Council level.
And, as the negotiations proceeded, it was hard to reconcile these two objectives.
Progress has also been made on certain technical amendments to Annex I and on the situation with regard to ports, although it is a pity that we were unable to extend the network towards the east as far as Budapest.
On a more general note, I should like to take advantage of this occasion to join my colleague, Mr Imbeni, in expressing the hope that those with political power, namely the ministers, will participate in future conciliations.
It is in this spirit that I hope Parliament will approve the joint conciliation text that we laboriously concluded on 17 June.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers have recalled the events leading up to this decision on Community guidelines on the trans-European transport network, as well as the lengthy discussions that preceded the compromise agreement.
Like all compromises, the text before us today is satisfactory in some respects and less so in others.
However, in view of the complexity of the issue, this is a satisfactory compromise overall, and one that should be approved by Parliament.
It is a pity that this important element has all too often been underestimated by the Member States and that projects which have been in the pipeline for several years have not progressed further.
Mr President, as has already been underlined, criticism must be made of the lack of balance in the conciliation committee between Parliament and the Council.
Despite these shortcomings, however, we must pay tribute to what is, in many respects, the historic impact that this joint text will have on many countries and regions.
Clearly, then, the intention is to approve a text which we already know to be impracticable.
In my opinion, the priority projects should not be changed on any account.
The rest will come later.
In the budgetary procedure for 1997, Parliament will have to consider carefully whether it is again prepared to allocate 75 % of the overall budget for transport policy to the trans-European transport networks or the fourteen priority projects.
Mr President, the essential thing today is to highlight the political importance of the fact, in itself, that Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement in terms of the future of our transport policy and our policy on cohesion and solidarity.
I should like to set out the four reasons why, in my view, we need this agreement.
Firstly, if we had not reached this agreement, we would have to start the process of laying down Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network all over again, without any guarantee that, in two or three years' time, Parliament would not be required to approve an agreement which is similar to, or worse than, the one we have at present.
It goes without saying that the enormous political and public relations cost of such a delay would be borne by Parliament, since our citizens would not understand why, having repeatedly stressed the need to build this network and insisted that it would lead to the creation of countless jobs, this House should now decide to reject the agreement reached or, in other words, to perpetuate the infrastructure deficiency, which in some Member States is very great, thereby delaying the creation of jobs.
And fourthly, on a pragmatic level, given the present and future budgetary constraints of the Union and the Member States, and with the knowledge that nothing is more elusive than money, the European Union and its Parliament need this agreement today, because at the least sign of hesitation or differences of opinion over criteria or objectives between our institutions, the private capital which we unquestionably need to finance the development of the trans-European transport networks will go to fund projects in other parts of the world which are or will become our competitors.
I was able to verify this on a recent visit to China.
For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to vote in favour of the agreement reached by the Parliament and Council delegations on the Community guidelines for the trans-European transport network, in the secure knowledge that, in doing so, you will be rendering a service to the cause of European integration.
You, Commissioner, said to us one day: ' Tell your fellow citizens that joining in a partnership could well turn into a business' .
This is a concern which should be taken into account in a special way in Portugal where, after all, the promotion of inland and less-favoured areas is in keeping with the service to be rendered to the more densely populated and industrial areas on the coast.
At the same time, even the governments - including mine - which largely accepted Parliament's positions are pressuring us to support this common position of the conciliation committee for the sake of delaying the projects.
France's problems in connection with the environmental impact of routing the TGV through densely populated areas are a case in point.
According to the Commission, it will require at least ECU 400 billion over the next 15 years to build the trans-European transport network.
It is also a pity that, in Mr Piecyk's report, national plans have been combined with plans for the trans-European network, thereby possibly making it even more difficult to obtain funding and reducing the scope of some of the larger projects.
For indeed, the plans for the trans-European transport network have opened a new chapter in the history of European transport policy.
The launch of this project will represent a first attempt to create, at European level, a sustainable transport infrastructure for the whole of Europe.
The investment made to this end will have a twofold benefit: the development of a more environmentally compatible transport infrastructure; and the creation of new jobs for Europe's citizens.
In particular, it will be up to the members of the Committee on Budgets to ensure that what is now the indicative stipulation that the fourteen Essen schemes are priority projects is actually adhered to, and that Community resources are used to secure a new trend in favour of environmentally compatible forms of transport.
With regard to financing, I should like to draw attention to the fact, in conclusion, that the Austrian Parliament recently decided, on the initiative of the social democrat Transport Minister, to invest some S 60 billion in transport infrastructure in the near future.
This is a measure which should set an example to all the Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the conciliation procedure can be viewed in various ways.
It is no surprise, however, that it has been incorporated in the text in this way, since the Council was not prepared to negotiate seriously with Parliament about the list of priority projects and to take a joint decision.
And, secondly, the Council has failed to provide the citizens of the Union with a clear and honest decision as to which are, in that case, the priority projects that are soon to be launched.
The Member States' governments neither agreed to make additional resources available for the development of the transport network through the redeployment of funds in national budgets, nor even took the fundamental decision to release further resources through the transfer of funds in the Community budget.
Mr President, it is now almost two years since the Essen European Council meeting.
But while we speak of TENs, I would also like to refer very quickly to the responsibility which we have for all parts of the Union.
We all know that it is in the very nature of a compromise that, in many areas, solutions will be reached which do not completely satisfy everyone concerned.
However, we must not forget our responsibilities with regard to these projects or, in particular, with regard to the citizens whom we represent in this House.
I would point out in this respect that Austria has only been a Member of the European Union since 1 January 1995, but that its legitimate demands must be taken seriously.
If we are to be able to pursue effectively the objectives laid down in Article 2 of the EC Treaty in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, there is an urgent need for a modern, fast and economical transport network with appropriate capacities, which also reflects the modern attitude towards the environment.
Barely a fortnight ago, Commissioner, on 1 July, you sent a letter to the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in which you said, firstly, that Parliament should be involved in any changes made to the list of priority projects; secondly, that your intention was to consider whether such an amendment to the guidelines for the network would be appropriate - which means, if that last phrase makes any sense at all, that you wanted to consider whether or not an amendment to the list of priority projects was required; and, thirdly, that this amendment should be approved by codecision.
Now you tell us, in your letter of 12 July, that in the event of any possible changes to the Essen list being proposed, you would ascertain whether or not these had been identified in Annexes I and II.
Mr Simpson said that we must not call you a liar.
I want to thank Mr Piecyk and Commissioner Kinnock for their help in winning this clause.
In the spirit that we have ended up with much more than we started with, this House should approve the networks.
The development of the trans-European transport networks is essential because the networks will further European integration and boost employment.
Because account would only be taken of 5 % of the cost of such measures, in the form of annual amortization, and because at present full account is already taken of interest-rate costs, the issue is the current focus for the development of the transport networks.
In the view of the Committee on Regional Policy, this is a classic conflict between transport policy and regional planning policy, which can only be resolved by means of solidarity between the regions.
They are, in my view and that of my group, a clear rejection of the laissez-faire approach to transport policy in Europe which has resulted, as we all know, in record congestion and pollution and cost ECU 100 billion a year in delay costs alone.
Secondly, I condemn the resistance of some Member States to our positive proposals to put our environmental concerns at the very heart of the trans-European network guidance.
But I would, in so doing, like to thank the Commissioner for his positive contribution to this very issue.
For the first time ever we are committing ourselves as a European Union to a strategic environmental assessment.
I have to say that my personal observation of the Commission leads me to believe that it has been engaging in double talk on this issue.
Financing, Commissioner, is another key aspect of the trans-European transport network project.
According to the Treaty, all policies are to contribute to the strengthening of economic and social cohesion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for my part I should like to congratulate our rapporteur and the Members of the European Parliament who are members of the conciliation committee chaired by Nicole Fontaine, for the competence, balance and good political sense demonstrated in these difficult negotiations, bearing in mind that the agreement reached was overall a positive one and that we now have the conditions for making decisive progress in the process of constructing the trans-European networks in the transport sector, something which is vital for the proper functioning of the internal market, for strengthening economic and social cohesion and for creating new jobs.
The achievement of these projects constitutes an important contribution to efficient and diversified links between the peripheral regions and the centre of the European Union, a vital condition for the existence of equal opportunities for all the citizens and undertakings in the Community.
Secondly, the priorities to be given to the projects must be borne in mind within a perspective of political dynamics and we should also apply the philosophy proposed in the report which we are now analysing.
In the case of Portugal, the proposal presented at the last European Council in Florence to integrate the project for a motorway from Lisbon to Valladolid into the inter-modal links between Portugal and Spain seems to us far more in keeping with the philosophy approved by the European Parliament and will actually contribute to a more balanced development of this region.
Mr President, it is not easy to shape a policy of economic and social cohesion.
Nevertheless, we should commend the successful work of the Commissioner and the rapporteur, as well as the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the technical teams supporting all their efforts.
There is much that we can do in this respect, I believe, to invest in jobs and take due account of the environment.
I am sure that everyone who has had direct involvement will share my view that, quite apart from the significant interinstitutional issues, efficient trans-European transport networks - as several Members have said in the course of the debate - are vital for jobs, growth, competitiveness and economic and social cohesion.
For the first time and in accordance with the Treaty, the Community has established, legislated policy for the medium and long-term development of the overall international transport infrastructure network.
That will prove to be a practical binding process for our Community, as Mr Sindal suggested.
I am certain that will prove to be an important development in the relationship between the democratic institutions of the Community and, as several Members have suggested, this should be regarded as the beginning of the evolution and not in any sense the end.
It is a matter of fact that in general the Member States have to secure the provision of over 90 % of the funds needed to undertake projects and the codecision process only covers the guidelines for the TENs, not their implementation or financing.
It is also clear that subsidiarity is properly secured by the provision under Article 129 of the Treaty that guidelines and projects of common interest which relate to the territory of a Member State shall require the approval of the Member State concerned.
First, the principle of specifying environmental considerations in the guidelines has been achieved in a new article, and that provision opens the way to the development of two new means of ensuring adequate environmental safeguards: strategic environmental impact assessments and corridor assessments.
The second change concerned the identification of projects of common interest and the amendments to the maps in Annex 1 and the specifications and criteria of Annex 2, where the Council accepted 18 further amendments in the conciliation procedure, in addition to those accepted after first reading.
Third, on the remaining amendments, the Council and the Commission made a joint declaration with Parliament that they take note of projects supported by Parliament in second reading with a view to the future development of the trans-European transport networks.
In addition, the Commission has declared that it will examine the projects voted for by Parliament in second reading and that examination will be undertaken as part of the revision procedure which is set for July 1999.
On the subject of ports, which I know rightly exercise several Members of this House, there are clearly very real questions of competition between these essential parts of the maritime infrastructure and, for that reason, it has not yet been found possible to achieve an approach to ports which is similar to that established for airports.
The Commission intends, therefore, after consultation with the interested parties and naturally the Member States, to present a report next year to identify eligible ports and consider whether it is appropriate to make a proposal that is comparable to that relating to airports in the Community.
They were convinced that the setting of priorities for projects of common interest is strictly a matter for national governments.
I know that Members of this House understand that view when more than 90 % of the costs of these major infrastructure developments have to be financed through the action of Member States.
Through negotiation in the conciliation procedure, Parliament succeeded in including a special provision - Article 19, referring to Annex III and the 14 projects of common interest to which the Essen Council attached particular importance.
Another provision - Article 20 - is directed towards projects of common interest in combined transport and new traffic management techniques.
If some modification of Article 19 and Annex III of the guidelines decision was to appear to be appropriate the Commission would have to consider whether to make a corresponding proposal.
When we undertake the first revision of the guidelines over the next three years - indeed we shall be reporting in three years' time - I am certain that the lessons from this initial experience will offer valuable instruction.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The explanatory statement to my report illustrates the problems inherent in the Community's position as a possible party to the Convention.
The opinion delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Communities on the Community's possible accession to the Convention on Bioethics, the statement made in Committee by Commissioner Edith Cresson, who is present here, and the opinion on this matter delivered by Parliament's legal service clarified the Community's position as regards the Convention.
Consideration of this important matter took time and in my opinion it was unfortunate that the Community could not accede to the Convention.
The Committee had to speed up its work so as to ensure that there was enough time for the report to be considered in plenary and before the Council of Europe's institutions give their final approval.
The Convention on Bioethics has been in preparation in the Council of Europe since 1990, in other words for some six years.
The aim of the Convention is to consolidate the regulations dealing with human biology and medicine in force in Europe and to help fill what is for the most part a legal vacuum as far as these issues are concerned.
Bioethics was already a difficult concept, and as a political matter it is even more difficult.
The fundamental aim is to protect the dignity of the individual from the violations made possible by the development of knowledge.
On 7 June 1996 the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights adopted 23 amendments to the report and, in addition approved the opinion delivered on the matter by the Committee on Research.
The report focuses chiefly on four topics: patient's consent, the protection of persons not able to give their consent, manipulation of the human genome and human embryo research.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is urging strict legal protection with regard to precisely these matters.
The Liberal Group does not want to see overly tight restrictions.
This view is clearly illustrated by Amendments 11, 12 and 14, tabled by our group.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the planned Council of Europe convention also has implications for research within the European Community.
The committee responsible has agreed to all the most important aspects of the Research Committee's proposals, and considers it essential for the European Parliament - partly in view of its role in the allocation of research funds - to monitor critically the work on this Council of Europe convention.
In response to this situation, the Committee on Research is calling in its opinion for the broadest possible public debate and participation in policy-making, as well as the holding of public hearings and the establishment of publicly accessible data bases.
The present draft convention represents a considerable improvement on the 1994 proposal.
There is also a need for a stricter legal framework for research on persons who are incapable of giving consent, and to ensure that such research is permitted only if it is closely linked to the illness of the person concerned and likely to benefit his or her health.
Finally, with regard to in vitro embryo research, the draft convention represents a compromise - a compromise which is less stringent than the legislation in force in Germany and other European countries.
The European Parliament should call for a ban on any type of consumptive embryo research, as well as for more precise rules on embryo protection in the case of in vitro fertilization.
The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights makes an important contribution to the debate on this issue, and Parliament should adopt it by a large majority.
Mr President, we have before us today the Council of Europe's important and ambitious draft text which seeks to establish a general framework for the protection of human rights with regard to the application of biomedicine - which, if I have understood it correctly, has since become a convention on bioethics.
I should particularly like to draw your attention to the dangers of over-ambitious titles, which might lead one to believe that all the problems associated with bioethics are dealt with in this document, which is obviously not the case.
In my view, the opinion delivered by the Court of Justice on 28 March 1996 ruled out any possibility of accession.
Even though this opinion relates to the European Convention on Human Rights and not to the draft convention on bioethics, it seems clear to me that the grounds identified by the Court of Justice in the former case apply mutatis mutandis to the draft bioethics convention, in particular paragraph 27 of its opinion: ' No Treaty provision confers on the Community institutions any general power to enact rules on human rights - in this instance bioethics - or to conclude international conventions in this field' .
To my mind, this applies just as much to the field which concerns us here as to the more general one of human rights.
We have found it very difficult to reach a consensus, to establish a delicate balance between respect for life, the dignity of human beings and the demands of advances in medicine, women's liberation and their control over their own bodies.
As a result, my group believes that the text adopted in the Legal Affairs Committee is unacceptable in its present form.
As regards research on persons who are incapable of giving consent, I wish to say that the original 1994 version of the draft convention rightly gave rise to protests.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to congratulate Mr Pelttari on his excellent work.
The legislators may believe, in all sincerity and with a clear conscience, that this draft convention will do good, whereas in point of fact it will impede medical progress in several areas.
Therefore, the report would only be acceptable if we approve at least four oral amendments.
If there is a surfeit of embryos, then we should let women have the choice of whether to preserve or destroy them, or donate them to science.
In fact, this opinion contains two serious defects.
Like the two previous speakers, I would say that if the amendments which we in particular have tabled are not taken into account, that will be what the European Parliament has done.
The development of biology and medicine demands that certain borders be drawn within the legal system for the protection of human dignity.
People must have the right to be different.
It is already known that if one parent has diabetes, the child has a 40 % chance of having II type diabetes.
If both parents have diabetes it is known that the child has a 60 % chance of having diabetes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, upholding and protecting the universal validity of human rights is one of the political priorities of our times.
Furthermore, in comparison with the European Convention on Human Rights, the draft convention is characterized by a striking lack of actionable binding force, in that it confines the jurisdiction of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights to supplying preliminary opinions.
More precisely, this report constitutes an opinion on the draft convention currently being drawn up by the Council of Europe.
Since then, the Council of Europe, through its Bioethics Steering Committee, has carried out further work which, on 7 June this year, appeared as a new text differing somewhat from the previous version.
In particular, the June 1996 text, which marked the conclusion of the work of the Steering Committee - before it goes to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, probably next autumn - to a large extent takes account of the criticisms which had been made, for example in Germany, where translation errors had distorted the debate.
The misunderstandings have now been cleared up, and the June text was adopted almost unanimously by the Steering Committee consisting of experts from all the Member States of the Council of Europe and representing all shades of opinion.
My second comment deals with some fundamental issues.
On all these points, Mr Pelttari's report appears more restrictive than the 1995 version of the draft convention.
We are pleased that the European Parliament is stating its position in this report by Mr Pelttari.
The fundamental principle of the patient's welfare, in the broadest sense, in any kind of intervention is generally welcomed, but on this note we would recall, firstly, that no medical intervention may be carried out without the free and informed consent of the person undergoing it; and, secondly, that no research may be carried out on a person incapable of giving consent, unless it is for that person's certain and direct benefit.
This position is in conflict with legislation and current practice in many European states, where the majority opinion is that the requirement for direct benefit would make it impossible to carry out a great deal of basic research on conditions relating to child development, childhood diseases or mental illness.
In any event, we do not consider these systems to be strong enough to permit any major advances.
Having said that, we are broadly in favour of the draft convention for the protection of human rights and dignity of the human being with regard to the application of biology and medicine.
Question No 29 by Maren Gnther (H-0529/96) Subject: EC humanitarian aid to Iraq in the light of Iraqi oil exports to finance humanitarian aid The Commission spends an annual sum of approximately ECU 22 million on humanitarian aid to Iraq.
The Commission is following the steps taken towards implementing resolution 986 of the UN Security Council which permits the sale of petrol in order to allow the purchase of food and humanitarian products.
The implementation of this resolution will require that all conditions, such as establishing purchase programmes and setting up adequate structures, are fulfilled several months in advance.
When resolution 986 actually comes into effect the Commission will examine the need to revise the programme and Member States and Parliament will be informed.
When those conditions have been fulfilled the moment will come to consider re-ordering the programme whether in Iraq or elsewhere.
Mr President, neither the Europol Convention nor the joint action on Europol's extended mandate, which was adopted in March 1995, provides for financing from the Community budget.
The Commission has no information on exactly how much each Member State is paying.
The European Parliament has created a special budget item in the 1996 budget for EDU.
A decision to this effect was also taken at the Council of Ministers of Home Affairs and Justice which took place on 9 and 10 March 1995.
The amount that the European Parliament has set aside for EDU's new areas of responsibility comes to a total of ECU 7.5 million, half assigned to the budget item and half placed in the reserve.
In accordance with the Treaty it is the Council of Ministers that is to decide whether these resources should be used or not.
Question No 31 by Graham Watson (H-0397/96) Subject: Uniform electoral procedure for elections to the European Parliament What measures is the Commission taking to ensure that the undertaking given by the signatories to the Treaty of Rome on the establishment of a uniform electoral system will at last be honoured?
After that, the Council has to take a unanimous decision after receiving the assent of the European Parliament.
I realize that the Commission recognizes, firstly, that the current balance in this House is skewed by the operation of the electoral system in just one Member State, so that we do not reflect here the will of the people of Europe when they vote.
I do not necessarily agree with every comment the honourable gentleman has made in the supplementary question, but it is the case that Parliament has exercised its right and functions as prescribed.
As to what a uniform electoral system is, there may be some room for argument but the Parliament put forward a proposal which certainly we recognize as containing a uniform electoral system.
The question of over-representation or under-representation of particular countries seems to me to be a wholly separate matter.
The process of updating this programme, which was adopted in April 1995, is currently under way in the Commission.
Question No 33 by Juan Colino Salamanca (H-0517/96) Subject: Dismissal of a senior Spanish official Can the Commission explain the reasons for the dismissal of Mr Fernando Mansito, a senior Spanish official?
I should now like to ask you what form the Commission believes the treatment of social issues at the WTO Conference in Singapore might take, and whether the Commission intends to advocate the establishment of minimum social standards - for example on the question of child labour - within the framework of the WTO agreement.
The European Union has the right to decide on what principles it will confer preferential treatment of a unilateral kind to developing countries, and the broad principle that account should be taken of their observance of labour standards of that kind is certainly one of the common features of such an arrangement.
We hope then that the Council of Ministers will adopt them and that that will be the basis for the position taken by the European Union in the Singapore Conference.
Then, after investigation, commercial policy measures can be taken vis--vis the third country in question.
It should also be underlined that European industries are granted protection of their rights in third countries through the existing network of international conventions.
And, of course, the individual enforcement of property rights as private rights is something which the rightholder himself can undertake by appropriate judicial or other action.
The reduction commitments will be implemented by stages over a period of five years, starting from January 1995.
With regard to the answer to my question concerning the progress made in reducing tariff rates and removing non-tariff barriers to trade in the developing countries, I should like to make the following point: the meeting of the Trade Ministers of the Asian-Pacific Economic Forum on Monday of this week made it clear that the developing countries are only prepared to reduce their protective tariffs on European industrial products if the European Union simultaneously makes further concessions regarding the import of agricultural products from those countries.
The position is very simple.
Question No 36 by Magda Aelvoet (H-0587/96) Subject: Low-level military flights over the territory of the Innu people in Canada Various Member States of the European Union - Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium - take part in low-level military flying over the territory inhabited by the indigenous Innu people in Labrador, Canada.
It is solely for the national authorities concerned.
Everybody is entitled to their own views, but I find it very difficult to believe that the decisions of individual Member States, as part of their defence arrangements, to engage in flights of this kind over a nonEuropean Union country is something which the Commission has jurisdiction over.
As the author is not present, Question No 37 lapses.
To remedy this situation, the Commission decided in 1995 to set annual targets for increasing the number of women in category A and particularly in leading positions.
The targets related to both the new and the old Member States.
At middle management level, that is heads of department and senior experts, there were around 10 % of women.
The new Member States have brought about a notable improvement in this situation: 41 % of those selected as heads of department and/or central advisers were women, whereas the old Member States only achieved 15 %.
The reason is that the appointments had to be made from those officials who were already serving.
All in all we can say that the trend is clearly in the right direction as regards the recruitment of category A officials, officials in the A grade pay bracket, but it will take some time before the overall figures change because recruitment has of course taken place over several decades.
Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Liikanen for that exhaustive reply.
I wonder somewhat whether it is intended that these measures should be more specific and whether there might be some positive discrimination - in the broadest sense - as regards the appointment of women in the future?
It is our intention, in addition to recruitment, to promote other measures to facilitate women's recruitment and career development.
I wished to deal only with the recruitment of officials into A grades because I know that the low proportion of women among these officials (only 15 %) has been an uncomfortable fact for the Commission and that it is this situation which must be changed first.
We are currently discussing with the staff organizations and in the Equality Committee what special measures would be appropriate to enable equality between women and men to be improved at all levels.
It is also characteristic of the Commission that the proportion of women in C grades - secretaries and auxiliary staff - is 85 %, which is also a negative feature.
The question of age limits is extremely tricky.
The first problem is that when we last arranged a general competition for A grade officials, there were 50 000 applicants in all the Community languages in spite of the age limits, of whom a couple of hundred could be placed on reserve lists.
When we looked at the recruitment policies in the new Member States it appeared that slightly less than half of those recruited were under 35 and slightly more than half over 35.
By 'style' I mean that only two or three years ago there were considerable tensions and perhaps too much sensitivity in the opinions and exchanges of letters between the Commission and the Court of Auditors.
Madam Commissioner, you have said that the Commission confirms the funding of this project.
In my question I say, and I will say it again in case you have not fully understood, that over the course of these developments two competent ministers have stated categorically in the Greek parliament that they are unable to lodge any document on the matter because there is no provision for the creation and operation of this project and that there is absolutely no funding.
Mr President, there have indeed been certain delays in the approval of the URBAN initiative in the United Kingdom.
The Commission is endeavouring to secure an agreement on these rules, so that all the URBAN programmes can be signed as soon as possible.
After all, given that the final discussions, between the Commission and the Scottish Office were in November 1995 and they were perfectly satisfied with the scheme, and as I understand the Welsh Office are also satisfied with the Swansea scheme, would the Commission be in favour of allowing those schemes where there has been agreement between the local authorities and the civil servants to go ahead?
Mr McMahon, the problem lies in the fact that we must of course also reach agreement with the British Government, and there was indeed an extended exchange of letters on this subject, during which, in the interest of the inclusion of the local authorities, amongst other things, the Commission requested changes.
I have just come from a committee meeting where we voted on the principle of partnership and involving local partners.
For us it is not just the principle of involving the local partners - it actually makes good sense because they know the issues on the ground.
This kind of behaviour in spending funds strains subsidiarity to the limit and, because of the inaction of Member States, inner cities are not benefiting from funds.
I do not believe that this has anything to do with the general political climate, but that we have problems agreeing on a procedure which will include local representatives in such a way as to ensure that they are able to promote their main interests in the implementation of the programmes, whilst guaranteeing, above all, that the neediest sections of the population and the urban areas gain the greatest benefit from the programmes.
On 15 July 1996, Portugal was the chief beneficiary in the commitment of funds for Objective I regions, and in the front rank in terms of payments.
As far as INTERREG II is concerned, the amounts indicated in the requests for payment submitted by the Portuguese authorities are not yet sufficient for the 1995 tranche of the programme to be opened and for payment of the first and second advances for 1995 to be effected.
For these payments to be made, spending for the programme as a whole - and this means for Portugal and Spain - must reach the amount required in the current regulations.
This forms part of our joint efforts in the context of SEM 2000 - although it is also a general matter of concern, since we naturally wish all funds to be transferred as swiftly as possible, once all the checks have been carried out.
Madam Commissioner, thank you very much for your reply but we should look here at three political points.
In respect of the second Community support framework the processes should be unblocked after two months and at this moment in time there are processes involving around 109 million ECU, in other words 21 billion escudos, processes which have been pending before the Commission since July 1995.
I acknowledge the efforts made by the Commissioner and her departments in speeding things up but I think that the Commissioner must understand that unless there is a further speeding up of processes in DG XX, the Commission will have to be responsible for the lesser use of Community funds and the lower rates of execution in the second Community support framework.
Question No 43 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0546/96) Subject: Diversion of the River Acheloos The diversion of the River Acheloos is one of the 'major projects' which will be financed in Greece from Community funds.
That is why we have asked the Greek Government to reconsider the priorities for the second Community support framework.
Question No 44 by Sren Wibe (H-0550/96) Subject: Changing regional support arrangements Administering the structural funds and Community initiatives will require considerable changes in Sweden's regional policy arrangements.
The aim of Community structural policy is to promote sustainable regional development.
Thirdly, it is indeed our aim to integrate the local and regional levels into structural policy to a greater extent.
In this respect, however, there are problems within Sweden which we cannot resolve, but which can only be sorted out by the Swedish Government, in partnership with the local players.
Would it not be appropriate to take a further step in this direction and, after 1999, to develop the principle of partnership in such a way as to introduce direct cooperation between the Commission and the regions concerned, without the various Member States setting up yet another special intermediate body?
The interpretation of the subsidiarity principle hitherto has, of course, principally concerned subsidiarity between the Commission and the Member States.
Question No 45 by Edgar Schiedermeier (H-0551/96) Subject: Future of the Structural Funds What are the prospects of support from the structural funds for the post-1999 period?
Leaving aside the discussion in the Committee on Regional Policy, however, I would simply say that the Commission's proposals for the future of the Structural Funds can certainly not be expected before the end of 1997 or early 1998.
For the moment, the Commission will produce its report on economic and social cohesion in the European Union in late autumn of this year, thereby creating a basis for further discussions at national and Community level.
If this criterion is to be retained in future, then we must draw the necessary conclusions.
The Commission examined the budgetary situation for 1995 in the Member States concerned, and established that the public deficits of all three lay within the targets for 1995 recommended by the Council.
Consequently, the Commission is continuing to authorize new Cohesion Fund projects or project phases in Greece, Portugal and Spain.
I thank you for your answer, Commissioner, but my question went a little further than that.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the political aspect of the peace process.
It is true that the programme approved by the Commission on 28 July did not give rise to a great deal of expenditure in 1995.
Thus the progress made with regard to the 26 partnerships is particularly encouraging, in the sense that people who were previously unaccustomed to discussing and taking joint decisions on the future development of their region are now working together in this context.
The quality of these controls has been satisfactory.
I wish to thank the Commissioner for a very full response on this particular fund.
And even if it has sometimes taken rather a long time for the funds to become available on the ground, the process of bringing together groups from different religious and cultural backgrounds to engage in joint discussions has already helped to create a substantial part of the structures which the funds are designed to support.
Mr President, access to information and services is indeed very difficult for undertakings in the Union's disadvantaged regions, which are the priority target of Structural Fund assistance.
In Spain, for example, the supply of financial services and services for undertakings is particularly limited in rural areas.
In Denmark, for example, only 3 % of working women are self-employed, compared to 21 % in Portugal, 20 % in Greece, 18 % in Italy and 16 % in Spain.
The support measures in favour of women are aimed at bolstering their entrepreneurial spirit and providing incentives for business initiatives.
Hence in the regional development programmes, as well as at inter-regional level, there is provision for specific measures to facilitate women's access to information.
It therefore recently published, for the first time, a brochure on women as players in regional development, so as to demonstrate what can be successfully achieved in the various countries and regions of the Community.
The Commission's guidelines for the new Objective 2 period refer for the first time to equal opportunities as one of four key goals of support policy.
The URBAN II Community initiative includes support measures for the promotion of equal opportunities and the creation of jobs for women.
And although equal opportunities are not specifically referred to in the pilot projects under Article 10 in terms of regional planning, I have instructed my services to take this criterion into account in the process of selection and evaluation.
In future, consideration could also be given to promoting, through the Euro-partnerships, the development of commercial cooperation between undertakings owned or run by women, and placing particular emphasis on these businesses in the list drawn up for such arrangements.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for her positive answer to my question.
The situation of women in these regions cannot be compared to those of women in Denmark or the other Nordic countries, where 'machismo' is less pronounced.
Everything is stacked against these women, who are in need of this support.
If I see things correctly, however, there are many very enterprising women in Andalusia - not least at the political level - and I have come to the conclusion that it cannot, in general, be said that the women of the southern Member States are less active in certain fields than those of the northern Member States.
Question No 49 by Inger Schrling (H-0598/96) Subject: Support for businesswomen In connection with Commissioner Wulf-Mathies' visit to Sweden, there have recently been reports in the Swedish press of a promise of fresh support for businesswomen.
For this purpose, invitations to submit pilot projects - which, pursuant to Article 10 of the ERDF Regulation concerning inter-regional cooperation, will receive Community funding - will be published in autumn 1996.
Decisions on the distribution of the funds available will be taken following the selection of the proposed projects, on the basis of their quality.
The funds for the specific pilot projects to which I referred are resources which are at the Commission's disposal in the context of Community initiatives and pilot projects.
As the only directly elected representatives of 370 million people in the European Union, it is our duty to say what we think about protecting human rights and human dignity in applying biology and medicine, and to try to influence what a convention like this actually says.
It is also good that the European Parliament is taking up a position on this matter.
Similarly in many countries, including Finland, legislation is currently being drafted on this subject.
We know that, in accordance with the Hippocratic oath, doctors on the whole have high moral and ethical standards and accept their duty to protect human life and promote health by all possible means.
In committee, we voted in favour of this report, because we believe that certain crucial aspects of it deserve our full support.
Further, the protection of the dignity and rights of individuals is of absolute priority as compared with any social or third-party interest, and the results of human genome research work must be freely available.
My group fully agrees with all these points; therefore, just as it did in committee, it intends to vote in favour of these principles in plenary too.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for his successful work in this problematic and important area and I hope that his amendments will be adopted.
From a human point of view science may render great services to humanity if it is possible to prevent the symptoms of grave genetic disorders or to promote recovery, thereby alleviating human suffering.
Mr President, I should firstly like to say that the Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left supports this report in principle, provided certain amendments which seek to safeguard human dignity and the right of women to decide for themselves with regard to this issue are adopted.
Secondly, we believe that this report represents a step forward.
Mr President, the Pelttari report is a good one: it is just as rigorous and thorough as the European Parliament's previous resolution of 16 March 1989.
The answer is no.
There is of course no intention to halt scientific progress, just as science was not halted by the Nuremberg Code or the Helsinki Declaration.
That is why, in most countries, ethics committees are drawing up what are real ethical protocols and - as in Italy within the past few days - a legal statute of the embryo, which at last is no longer ambiguous, setting out the need for the legal protection of embryos, equal to that for each and every one of us.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the human embryo a fully-fledged human being?
Once again, the committee repeats that a human being becomes one at the moment of conception, and allows science to work only with dead embryos.
What is certain is that we must come to a final decision, in all consciousness, as responsible citizens.
The question remains as to whether everything that is technically possible in biological terms is also desirable, both from the point of view of protection and the rights of the individual.
The report contains two points, paragraphs 12.5 and 12.10, from the opinion of the Committee on Research and Technology, both of which place the rights of the human embryo above those of the individual, in other words the genetic parents.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in my personal capacity, but reflecting on a very intense discussion of this report within the delegation of the Partito Democratico della Sinistra to the Socialist Group.
It is my impression that we, the European Parliament, have embarked on a road which could lead to a hasty and inadequate result, and which with no doubt at all will bring us face to face with a complex set of issues and questions which are in all our minds.
I believe that full freedom of conscience should be allowed in the vote on the report which is before us, bearing in mind - as far as the so-called statute of the embryo is concerned - that nothing can be done while some claim that embryos are mere clusters of cells, to be produced and used at will, and others recognize them to all intents and purposes as persons, with a statute and rights equal in all respects to those of fully-formed individuals.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow draftsman for the PPE Group in the Committee on Research, I should like to comment on some of the amendments which secured a majority.
The Bioethics Convention is the first international agreement to give a clear definition of the limits of research and medical intervention in humans and to confirm the rights of the individual in relation to science.
These new technologies are already bringing us - and promise to bring in the future - many new products in the health and agri-food sectors.
As its title clearly states, the draft Council of Europe convention primarily deals with human rights.
The Court of Justice has just reminded us of this quite clearly in its opinion of 28 March 1996.
I would remind the House that the framework programme and the specific programmes on biotechnology and biomedicine are explicitly required to respect the provisions adopted internationally in these fields.
All the research programmes in life science and technology under the fourth framework programme allocate a substantial portion of their resources to the ethical, social and legal issues to which they give rise.
I therefore congratulate the European Parliament for having organized this debate, and would end by thanking you for inviting the Commission to take part in it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In fact, a broad consensus is what is required for this kind of discussion, since we shall only be able to reform our Rules of Procedure and introduce greater transparency if we obtain 314 votes tomorrow!
We therefore need the support of the groups and, to make the point quite clearly, the support of the two large groups whose vote will determine this majority.
The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has carried out its work with this end in view and on the basis of the guidelines that were presented to us.
These are the essential ingredients of this report and its conclusions.
I am aware that these proposals present difficulties for some people, particularly as regards the ban on accepting gifts other than declared income.
That proposal is now on the table, its only purpose being to secure the support of the two major groups.
In Rules 162 and 163, provision has been made not only for changes, but also for ways of applying and interpreting the Rules should anyone try to reduce the proposals to absurdity, for example by evoking the famous case of the cup of coffee that it would no longer possible to offer one's visitors.
Maybe there is the odd resolution for a trip, but the worst you can say here is that 98 % and more of the Members conduct themselves in a perfectly fit and proper manner.
As we well know, the Commission accepts the majority, 80 % I have been told, of our amendments, in whole or in part.
My report is very simple indeed now.
With respect to the Nordmann report, it has our support.
Mr President, in an opinion which was unanimously adopted, the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment declares itself in favour of the regulation of the activities of pressure or lobby groups, on the basis of the following points.
By the same token, our committee emphasizes the need to facilitate the activities of non-profit-making lobby groups, not only for reasons of equal opportunities, but because it is right that these groups should be able to operate in this House.
The Committee on the Rules of Procedure is asked to draw up that code, so that it enters into force at the same time as this new text.
His second report meets all the objectives our committee had in mind and takes account of criteria we felt should be met.
As it stands, however, the Ford report does not provide very much more than a framework.
The code of conduct needs to be spelled out in detail in another report, but this is not such a great problem, since we can carry on using the unofficial register and code of conduct that the quaestors have introduced for the time being.
The next report needs to tighten up the existing code and establish a legal basis for it.
As regards the intergroups, the group chairmen have already ordered that each intergroup must declare whether it has external sources of funding, and which Members from at least three groups are its sponsors.
This seems to me to be a sound basis on which to clean up our image and to tighten up the rules governing assistants and other third parties.
I sometimes have the impression that in certain delicate matters such as that which we are discussing today the European Parliament provides 626 rapporteurs for reports coming from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
But we rightly in this European Parliament demand transparency of the Council.
Oscar Wilde once said that when two people had the same opinion, one at least of them is superfluous.
If all these things are to be sorted out in this parliamentary term, the Ford report is the launching pad, and we are happy to give it our support.
Mr President, the Europe of Nations Group will vote in favour of the Ford report, which regulates the activities of persons and groups from outside Parliament and does not present any special problem.
On the other hand, the Nordmann report, which deals with Members themselves, seems to us to be clearly inadequate, for two reasons.
The second reason for our dissatisfaction is the complete lack of any real obligation concerning the declaration of assets.
Amendment No 3 states that while we are waiting for a statute for MEPs to be introduced - which has now been postponed indefinitely - Members are subject to the obligations imposed on them by the legislation of the Member State in which they were elected as regards the declaration of assets.
In this particular case, our own Rules could have gone further than the provisions in force in individual Member States.
As has been quite rightly stated on page 19 of the annex to the second Nordmann report, the thinking behind the arrangements in the Member States is aimed at enabling the situation of MPs in terms of assets to be judged from the time when they begin their parliamentary duties to the time their mandate expires, in order to ensure that, while they are in office, they do not make excessive profits as a result of the positions which they hold.
Mr President, we often make anodyne statements, but seldom take decisive action.
Mr President, broadly speaking, the amendments to the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure proposed in the two reports under discussion today are designed to guarantee the necessary transparency in the activities both of Members and of people interacting with them, in other words lobbyists and assistants.
I would not hesitate to answer the first question in the affirmative.
Despite the difficulties caused by the coexistence of differing penal and fiscal legislation in the various Member States, the European Parliament is taking the lead in establishing rules on transparency by laying down moral provisions such as the ban on the acceptance of gifts, so as to increase the citizens' trust in their elected representatives.
In my view, however, these new rules cannot be regarded as adequate, but merely as a first step towards a more comprehensive and coherent set of provisions in this area.
Both the reports before the House today suggest ways of guaranteeing our citizens the financial transparency that is required.
I am in favour of the proposal to establish a public register listing assets, and I think that what is said in certain dubious amendments - that this instrument of transparency could be exploited by illintentioned people - is not a good premise for demonstrating to public opinion our good will and the propriety of our procedures.
I believe that the additions to Rule 9 and to the provisions governing its application must be as clear as possible, and that these reports do in fact serve this aim.
Obviously, in view of the time taken to bring these two reports before the House, I do not harbour too many illusions that such a statute could be drawn up within the near future.
If we wish future generations to consider that Members of Parliament perform a socially useful role, worthy of emulation, let us set an example now by voting in favour of these reports.
Mr President, basically, the issue we are now debating concerns our credibility as parliamentarians.
Bearing this in mind the draft reports from Mr Ford and Mr Nordmann are a disappointment.
The Nordmann report also has serious flaws.
This is unacceptable and incompatible with our independence as parliamentarians.
Mr President, it will be really very difficult for us to carry out our work as Members of Parliament if we do not exercise transparency regarding our economic interests.
In this connection Mrs Aelvoet already said that only in two Member States are there rules of this nature on the notification of property and Mr Nordmann's report is quite insignificant in this respect.
The Nordmann report is much the same.
The Nordmann report too points in the right direction but does not go far enough.
The most important thing is that now, for the first time ever, we have rules on the activities of lobbyists, and we can always make them tighter in the future.
I welcome the fact that in line with my own amendments, Members will have to declare in a register what financial interests they have apart from representing Europe's citizens.
The Liberal Group therefore commends the moderate nature of this compromise.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Twenty years later, as a result of the drastic restructuring programmes and their terrible social cost in the 1970s and 1980s, it almost caused the downfall of this same Union.
Secondly, social policy in this sector needs to be improved.
Finally, I should like to say a word about the ECSC Treaty, which expires in the year 2002.
We now recognize that this Treaty has a more pronounced social spirit than those which followed.
Like the rapporteur, I too believe that in making the transition, we should preserve this spirit as well as the more positive elements in the ECSC Treaty, whilst adapting it to suit recent economic and social developments.
In conclusion, Mr President, my group broadly approves this report, which lays down guidelines for a competitive steel industry in the future.
Everyone knows that as well as making a major contribution to the economies of the Member States, the steel industry is also an extremely important source of employment, both direct and indirect.
In our western society, cost control almost inevitably means job losses.
This is the first report that actually looks beyond that point.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report on restructuring in the steel industry, with some very positive contributions by the rapporteur in respect of this sector, nevertheless reflects an overall strategic orientation about which we have reservations and with which we disagree to some extent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too would like to congratulate Mr Caudron.
On the one hand, it is an example of a robust industrial policy with its own research and social arm, whose carefully regulated and focused long-term strategy has, broadly speaking, succeeded in bringing structural change to the sector.
These are the less favourable aspects which the Community cannot afford to allow to continue in the longer term.
The ECSC reserves, for example, cannot be treated as some sort of private fund for the coal and steel industries.
In 20 years, jobs in the steel industry have been cut by two thirds.
The expiry of the ECSC Treaty and the integration of steel research into the fifth framework programme of research and technological development present a serious problem.
Lastly, the future of the European steel industry is linked to the development of other industrial sectors such as construction, automobiles, and so on.
However, I am confident that, in this respect, the Commission will protect the interests of the Community steel industry.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Caudron's interesting report has two themes.
The same applies in the case of unilateral protectionist measures taken by some non-Union countries against the latter's products.
The most vital element in the future of the steel industry is research.
Mr President, it has already been pointed out today, and it is something I would like to emphasize, that the steel industry is undoubtedly a symbol of the construction of Europe.
In this restructuring process, the amount of state aid received has been unequal, and this is something which should also be borne in mind for the future.
By way of example, the steel industries of some Member States have closed down up to 30 % of production capacity, whilst receiving less state aid than the industries of other Member States, some of which - curiously - are now protesting vehemently against state aid.
The most recent restructuring operations should be carried out in the best possible social conditions, using the available financial resources and the ECSC reserves to finance not only R&amp;D programmes, but also social measures, such as early retirement schemes and compensation for redundancy.
Let us not deceive ourselves with the euphemism 'funding for social research' , which accounts for no more than 1 % of overall research in this sector.
It is not social research which needs funding, but the necessary social measures connected with the large-scale reductions in production capacity.
We cannot penalize this sector in relation to the others.
I am sure that he will forgive me, however, for raising three objections to his excellent report.
Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost, not only in northern, but also in southern Europe.
The decision taken by the Council in 1993 on structural change, reorganization and the adjustment of capacity was then backed by a number of initiatives from the Commission.
We often judge matters on the basis of our own home areas.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Trans-European telecommunications networks The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0222/96) from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the common position established by the Council (C40225/96-95/0124(COD)) with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Decision on a series of guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks (rapporteur: Mr Hoppenstedt).
The common position supports the linking of networks within the telecommunications infrastructure and the development of interoperable services and applications and access to them, in order to facilitate the transition to the information society, improve industrial competitiveness and consolidate the Community's economic and social cohesion.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has identified Articles 3, 6 and 7 as being in particular need of amendment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to remind you that the proposal before us, the legal basis for which is Title XII of the Treaty, requires the Union to establish guidelines, objectives, priorities and broad lines of measures envisaged to help implement projects connected with the trans-European telecommunications networks.
In February of this year, Parliament delivered its opinion at first reading with a number of amendments, some of which were not accepted by the Council.
Coordination of networks is also important for the implementation of various Community programmes concerning research and technological development and support for small and medium-sized businesses, which include programmes particularly concerned with information, such as INFO 2000 and MEDIA II.
Mr President, Commissioner, the second reading of this common position, prepared by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, raises the question of comitology, requiring that the European Parliament should have a greater role and more say in decision-making when it comes to selecting projects for the trans-European telecommunications networks.
The debate is closed.
The pressure equipment sector in Europe always has been and will continue to be a major market, ensuring jobs and, with its stringent safety standards, successfully matching up to competition on the world market.
This applies to Amendments Nos 1 to 7, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15, which we therefore accept.
This conflicts with other provisions in the directive and with the Council decision on the conformity assessment procedure, which provides for the use of quality assurance systems as an alternative to such procedures.
Amendment No 10 calls for the promotion of the application of harmonized standards.
The debate is closed.
