Approval of the Minutes Madam President, the reason I want to say something about the Minutes is my letter announced to the President yesterday.
We would ask the Presidency - since there is not enough time to table an urgent resolution - to call on the Malabo authorities to carry out an investigation and we ask that our institution takes the necessary measures to ensure that nothing similar happens again because various other prisoners are in the same situation as this Bubi leader was.
This man was 58 years old.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Mr Morris, the Presidency is here today.
I believe that this Parliament, which has very clearly stated that it is opposed to the death penalty in general and, in particular, to the death sentences of certain prisoners in Equatorial Guinea, should take action, at least through the Presidency of the Council.
We could pass this message on to the Council so that it contacts the authorities in Equatorial Guinea to intervene and, in any case, so that those authorities allow a visit by European Union authorities to monitor the situation of these prisoners and thereby guarantee justice for this people.
I understand that the Government of South Korea, due to the industrial unrest in that country, have issued warrants for the arrest of 55 trade union leaders.
The right of petition enables European citizens to have closer contact with the Community institutions by means of their requests, making these institutions aware of the preoccupations and expectations of citizens, especially when the intertwining of Community and national legislation ends up violating the rights of individuals.
This is possible also because of the contribution of the European Commission and its services which, I stress, unlike the Council and the Member States, are in constant dialogue with our committee nearly every day.
An in-depth reflection is therefore necessary, also in view of enlargement, in order to determine new instruments and procedures for the effective handling of petitions.
The national authorities and the institutions, especially the Council, need to be more directly involved in these procedures, for too often they remain silent and do not act upon our requests for information or intervention.
In the report, we are also pleased with the fact that relations with the European Ombudsman are fruitful and constructive, in the interests of European citizens and of transparency of Community actions.
I recall that in this period of time 1312 petitions were presented, 582 were declared admissible, 529 inadmissible.
We are aware of the fact that the institution of the right of petition has become an extremely important and delicate instrument to better draw the citizen closer to the European Union and to enable the Parliament to perceive citizens' real expectations.
The Evans report is about allowing petitions in the European Parliament to be submitted in languages other than one of the 11 official languages.
Secondly, there are the languages of immigration in the European Union which, again from my own country, would be languages like Gujerati, Urdu, Bengali etc.
I would also like to point out that the submission of petitions electronically is permitted in many corresponding bodies in the national parliaments and by our own Ombudsman.
The third criticism is that it will lead to an increase in the number of petitions, which will therefore require more personnel; this, in itself, is also correct.
This could mean that we need more personnel in the Committee on Petitions, but democracy costs, so we must also be prepared to pay the small price in question.
Extremely small steps are, indeed, being taken here (it is almost a mere trifle) but they are nevertheless small steps towards greater transparency.
Madam President, we in the Committee on Petitions welcome this initiative and would very much like to see it adopted as soon as possible.
At the same time, like the rapporteur, I would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on having opened a home page where you can find a form on how to lodge a complaint.
In addition, we agree that petitions must be treated in the same way, irrespective of the way in which they have been submitted.
These rules have a different approach, namely that to obtain access to a document submitted to Parliament, we should not turn to Parliament but to the person who produced the document.
At the same time, it is our responsibility as Members of Parliament to consider the nature of the matter and not the number of petitions when deciding priorities.
We all know that administrations tend to act bureaucratically and that means at a distance from their citizens.
The Committee on Petitions with its practical work provides the guarantee that this proximity exists in practice.
The work of the committee is to provide redress in the case of shortcomings in or breaches of Community law and to protect the rights of its citizens.
Happily, the citizens of Europe are exercising their rights more and more frequently and so the number of complaints and petitions received has increased over recent years.
The fact that the European Commission report on this EU law lists 17 actions for treaty violation brought at the instigation of the Parliament in 1997 is the result of our work in the Committee on Petitions.
This was a case, therefore, in which national authorities had made an error but the intervention of the Committee on Petitions was successful and a citizen was granted his rights.
Not all petitions can be resolved so successfully.
However, it is important that the citizens of Europe are kept informed and that they know they can turn to the Committee on Petitions for help in enforcing their rights and we will do everything in our power to help them obtain their rights.
Madam President, during the debate on the Anastassopoulos report earlier this week, many Members said that we must make every effort to bring this Parliament closer to the people of Europe.
I congratulate Mr Fontana on the clarity of his report and also on the commitment he has shown, as Chairman of the Petitions Committee, to the needs of European citizens.
One could wish, on occasion, that its reports arrived rather more promptly at the Petitions Committee.
I hope that the Austrian presidency might address this issue and ensure that, as a matter of course, a Council representative attends every meeting of the Petitions Committee.
Many thanks, Mr Perry.
Madam President, I believe that the modification of the right to petition the European Parliament, in the sense that those languages which are official in an area of the territory of the Member States will be recognized, is a positive step.
I would like to point out that many of these languages were banned in certain countries during very recent dictatorships, but democracy has recognized them and has also granted them their own official status.
We must also take into account the fact that these citizens have the right to use their mother tongue in the Court of Justice of the European Communities and in other legal bodies.
Madam President, it is becoming increasingly evident that one of the more significant innovations of the Maastricht Treaty was enshrining the right to submit a petition.
This is a fundamental right given to each citizen of the European Union.
The right to petition helps to break down barriers and creates a vital link between the working of the EU institutions and our citizens.
The only safe Sellafield is a closed Sellafield.
It is not a question of subsidiarity: trans-frontier pollution is a matter of concern to us all and has prompted numerous petitions.
Even a small earthquake in the Cumbrian region could breach the storage tanks.
This report, prepared by the Director of the US-based Institute for Research and Security Studies, accuses the United Kingdom nuclear installation inspectors of not taking a serious accident at Sellafield seriously enough and of not having an emergency plan.
The proposed EN 1384 standard is a compromise which does not provide the best possible protection available, as required by the personnel protective equipment directive.
Only one out of 17 equestrian federations throughout Europe was consulted.
But this is not satisfactory: it is a formal solution but it is not a real solution.
And this is especially true, Madam President, for certain cases where the languages are official languages in one of the Member States of the Union.
In this case, Madam President, we believe that the petitions and complaints made by citizens in their own language should be accepted.
It is worth noting that petitions are on the rise - there were more than 1 300 last year - but also more and more citizens are signing petitions - there are petitions with more than 30 000 signatures - which means that hundreds of thousands of citizens each year are using this important instrument of democracy.
This obviously necessitates improvements in the organization of the work of the Committee on Petitions, but ways must also be found to make it easier for citizens to use this instrument.
Another important aspect is collaboration with the European Union's structures: with the European Ombudsman in particular for limited petitions but also with the European Commission whose collaboration so far has been good but which can be improved in terms of both the time it takes the Commission to reply and the quality of its answers.
As a representative of the Greens, allow me to say that we are very pleased that European citizens consider the instrument of petitions very important in making known the environmental problems of their own area.
In fact, the languages which enjoy official status in a Member State will, from now on, be able to enjoy the same rights as those enjoyed currently by each of the 11 working languages of the European Union in terms of the right to petition the European Parliament, thereby promoting the development of the different cultures of the peoples of Europe.
And, Madam President, that is the aim of our amendment: to promote and develop the use of and communication in their own languages, by European citizens, respecting their own cultures and idiosyncrasies, with the Community institutions, in this case with the European Parliament.
I will conclude, Madam President, with the hope that this House approves a report whose amendments aim to widen and consolidate the spirit of integration of the peoples and their cultures.
Madam President, the purpose of the reports by my colleagues, Mr Evans and Mr Wibe, is to extend further the right of petition provided for in Article 156 of our Rules of Procedure.
But, in these same texts, we find provisions which, anticipating difficulties that might arise from such reforms, turn them into a model of the status quo.
The chairman, Mr Fontana, notes in his report an increase in the number and frequency of petitions, with the corollary of increasing delays and difficulties in processing them.
Under these circumstances, where will be the efficiency and credibility of the Committee on Petitions, if we multiply the number of petitions to Parliament as suggested by the different reports which we are discussing this morning?
To conclude, Madam President, we shall vote against these reports, not because they are bad, but because they do not solve the problems which are raised, since having noted that the Committee on Petitions is becoming clogged up, the rapporteurs propose yet more bureaucracy as a solution.
Madam President, one of the most important results of the Maastricht Treaty has certainly been the institution of European citizenship which has made every citizen of a Member State a citizen of the Union and has implicitly led to greater protection of citizens' rights in the context of European construction.
In fact, the right of petition is essential not only for citizens but also for the Union's institutions, in that petitions enable the institutions to become aware of citizens' real expectations.
Finally, great importance must be attached to the admissibility of these petitions.
The Committee on Petitions provides a constant source of information, knowledge - and sometimes a bit of bewilderment - as we probe the various complexities of legislation which inspire citizens' complaints.
On mutual recognition of qualifications, the European Union still has a long way to go.
All these things taken together act as an impediment to the free movement of citizens and the Committee on Petitions has continually drawn attention to this.
I would like to praise the Commission and thank it for its cooperation during my time in the committee.
Matters coming before the Committee on Petitions could have been taken a bit further by the Commission before going on to the committee.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the Evans and Wibe reports.
The Wibe report is one small step for man, one giant leap for the European Parliament.
This is a new insight, a new aspect of our work which has been particularly emphasized and underlined by his work and that of his Scandinavian colleagues.
Having made that preliminary remark, I should say that the PPE Group supports the Evans report.
Madam President, I could almost repeat my contributions to the discussion last year word for word.
As has already been said, in most cases the problem lies with the Council, that is, with the Member State to be consulted in each case.
I personally find it gratifying that the number of petitions taking action against failures to apply or to implement European environmental law has dropped considerably in the period covered by the report.
Although the coordinating directive 1408 is positive, it often offers no help in resolving injustices.
Madam President, the European Union, which is defined as and acts as a Community based on respect for human rights, and which has always defended and undertaken to promote the cultural diversity of Europe, cannot ignore the right of a people to have the symbols of their identity recognized and respected.
Therefore, this Parliament, as the representative of the people who form the European Union, has shown itself on many occasions to be in favour of measures which contribute to preserving this identity, of which one of the most obvious symbols is its language.
In this respect, we should recall the Reding report on the situation of the Catalan language or the Killilea report on minority languages.
Today, Parliament has the opportunity to fulfil one of the agreements adopted in the Killilea report and thereby to reiterate its commitment to the defence of those languages which are part of the rich cultural heritage of Europe.
Therefore, I call on this House to vote in favour of the amendment that various groups and Members have tabled to the Evans report, asking that the petitions drafted in the official language of a part of the territory of a Member State might also be admitted for consideration.
Madam President, the collective rights of historic minorities and cultural diversity are assets that we all must protect and the European institutions have spared no efforts in doing so.
Therefore, nothing is more contrary to that spirit than the discrimination between those who have a minority language which is recognized in a territorial context and those other citizens, who are normally the most needy, whose language is also a minority language but is not officially recognized.
The person most in need of the opportunity to forward a petition in his own language is not the European citizen belonging to a historic minority whose language is already recognized.
If we recognize this opportunity, we must recognize it without any limitations.
I was honoured to take on this role at the request of the Committee on Petitions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I agree with the excellent Fontana report in terms of its comments on the importance of the right of petition.
Petitions allow the institutions to become aware of the true difficulties and problems encountered by the citizens.
By sending a petition to Parliament, the citizen is not only denouncing what seems to be an unsatisfactory application of Community legislation, but is also demonstrating, at the same time, its trust in Parliament and in all of the institutions, with the hope that the error might be rectified.
I, therefore, welcome the fact that the collaboration between Parliament and the Commission has allowed us this year, too, - as rightly pointed out in the Fontana report - to find specific solutions and improvements in a large number of cases.
I must also tell you that the Commission, which is doing everything possible to bring Europe closer to the citizens, shares the position adopted by the Committee on Petitions on infringement procedures and appreciates the importance of the action that Parliament is taking in this area.
We are convinced that an essential task which we must fulfil is to guarantee complete respect for Community legislation and to detect the weaknesses in this legislation in order to improve it and ensure that it is put to more adequate use for the citizens.
It is precisely because of that concern of looking rapidly and in detail at the petitions that have been submitted to us, that I will only speak briefly about the Evans report.
It is true that the issue of the languages in which petitions are drawn up is essentially a problem which is Parliament's responsibility.
However, it is also true that, through cooperation - which I would even go so far as to call creative - between the Committee on Petitions and the Commission's services, the consideration of a large number of petitions could be resolved.
I would congratulate once again the rapporteur and all of the members of the Committee on Petitions on the excellent work they have done.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, it has now become an established practice that the European Parliament follows the best traditions in the Member States, by inviting the Ombudsman to present his annual report in person.
Copies of the annual report for 1997 should have been distributed to all Members of the European Parliament.
The report is also available on the Ombudsman's Internet website.
The first question is: what remains to be done before the office of the European Ombudsman is fully operational and able to deal effectively with citizens' complaints?
The second question is: what is the best way to help improve the quality of European administration from the point view of the citizen?
The third question is: what can be done to help the many complainants with grievances about the application of Community law in the Member States, particularly when they try to exercise their right of freedom of movement?
As regards the first question, it is important to recall that 1996 was the first full year of work for the European Ombudsman.
As I have also experienced at national level, there is a steady rise in the number of admissible complaints, but the increase in the inadmissible complaints is even higher.
We are now able to process 70 % of inadmissible complaints in this way.
In 40 % of these cases, either the institution settled the matter, a friendly solution was found, or the case was closed with a critical remark.
In some cases, it even succeeds in convincing the complainant that it has acted properly.
However, it is obvious that we now urgently need more resources, to deal efficiently and properly with existing complaints and prepare ourselves for the new work which the Amsterdam Treaty will create when it brings the third pillar (which includes Europol) fully into the Ombudsman's sphere of responsibility.
I have mentioned two important initiatives in this field in my annual report.
The first is the Perry report concerning the activities of the Committee on Petitions in 19961997.
Adoption and publication of such a code is an important sign of a commitment to create a more service-minded administrative culture in relation to citizens.
The last question I would like to raise here is the continuing high number of complaints from European citizens concerning the enforcement of Community law by public authorities in the Member States.
We have increasingly been passing on these complaints or suggesting that they be dealt with either as petitions to the European Parliament, when they include a matter of principle which needs political experience or pressure in order to be resolved, or by the national ombudsmen or similar bodies.
To my mind, it is important to realise that many of these complaints could be resolved easily and promptly at national level.
Our objective is to create an effective network of redress for these grievances, in cooperation with the national ombudsmen and similar bodies (most often petitions committees of national parliaments).
In the annual report I have given an account of the activities in this field so far.
I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation.
Thank you, Ombudsman.
As you can hear, we are very satisfied indeed with the way in which you have introduced your important work as Parliamentary Ombudsman.
Mr President, during 1997 the European Ombudsman continued to investigate possible maladministration in European Community institutions and bodies.
The democratically elected MEPs who serve on the Committee on Petitions have the task of monitoring the work of the European Ombudsman.
In our view, Jacob Söderman is an effective champion of the rights of citizens.
His work acts as a vital safeguard, because without an effective Ombudsman the individual citizen could easily be the helpless victim of maladministration by a powerful and sometimes out-of-touch European bureaucracy.
He has responded to this challenge with a satisfactory formula, namely that maladministration occurs when a public body fails to act in accordance with a rule or principle which is binding upon it.
Perhaps more meaningfully, he also reminds us in his report of the examples of maladministration which he gave in his first annual report.
The Committee on Petitions has previously supported a common code of good administrative behaviour for European Union institutions and bodies and we are pleased that the Ombudsman has also proposed such a code.
As he states in his report, this would surely raise the quality of the institutions' administrative practices and enhance their relations with European citizens.
The administrative behaviour of the Ombudsman's own office perhaps provides a useful example of the kind of practices which should be included in a code.
When the Ombudsman receives a complaint, the complainant receives a letter of acknowledgement which both explains the procedure for handling the complaint and, very importantly, gives the name and telephone number of the civil servant actually dealing with the complaint.
The Ombudsman has looked into the European Commission's administrative practices when it has used the Article 169 procedure to bring infringements of the European Treaty before the Court of Justice.
This is a matter which bothers many of our citizens who, rightly or wrongly, feel that the Commission responds too readily to pressure from Member States, for instance, over possible infringements of environmental protection directives.
The Commission has also been accused of keeping complainants in the dark about the progress of this kind of complaint.
It is true that the Ombudsman was able to close his inquiries into the Commission's practices in the infringement procedure without making critical remarks.
In order to help the Ombudsman to keep to this commitment Parliament will need to ensure in the budget procedure that his office receives the necessary additional staff.
In conclusion, I agree with the Ombudsman's decision to target his latest publicity at citizens and organisations that deal with European Community institutions and bodies, as his powers are limited to investigating maladministration by such European Community institutions and bodies.
The Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman have complementary but distinct roles.
The way in which we treat this Special Report can, in a way, create a model for the future.
We also emphasize in our report that public access to documents is not worth much if not everyone can find out which documents exist and then request some of them.
This report therefore requires rules on a register to be an integral part of the legislative proposals that the Commission should put forward as soon as possible.
The declaration attached to the Treaty concerns expressly the correspondence of the Member States.
Even the Committee of the Regions has done so; this constituted an addendum after the report was completed in committee.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the Ombudsman to the House.
In that connection I should like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for its assistance in drawing up this report, which was a very trouble-ridden one when it first started off in the last Parliament.
It is essential for us, as a Parliament, to guarantee the independence of the office of the Ombudsman.
In one sense, while we in Parliament are the representatives of the European citizens and while the Commission and the Council have their own distinct roles, the Ombudsman is the person who can interact between all those different institutions in a neutral and unbiased way; who can make comments and decisions that are either favourable or unfavourable, on the basis of the rights of citizens and in support of those rights.
Therefore it is essential for us, as a Parliament, to have our Rules altered to guarantee that independence and also to show the link between Parliament - through its committees - and the Ombudsman.
From that point of view the Ombudsman and Parliament are the two central points of access for European citizens: because we are elected and because the Ombudsman is there to protect their rights if there is any maladministration or wrongdoing in the operation of the European institutions.
Originally in our own Rules of Procedure we had Rule 161 in its original format, which could have been interpreted as not guaranteeing the independence of the Ombudsman, particularly on issues such as: when the Ombudsman was due to come before Parliament, whether he could be called before Parliament to make requests for information, and whether a committee of Parliament could bring him before the committee to make requests for information.
The biggest change that is being made within the Rules is to ensure that the Ombudsman has the initiative with regard to informing Parliament and Parliament's committee.
Apart from this, Parliament guarantees the Ombudsman its cooperation, whether through access to documents, through giving information or through the Petitions Committee, guaranteeing that requests for information are followed up.
What we are doing here today in amending the Rules is first and foremost to guarantee the independence of the Ombudsman.
That is a very clear message which we can send from Parliament today to European citizens to show that, despite the changes in personnel within Parliament, despite the alterations in the Commission and despite a different Council presidency every six months, the one remaining certainty at all times is the office of Ombudsman: the final port of call for the protection of rights and fundamental freedoms and the guarantees of proper administration of all of the European institutions.
The rapporteur's proposal is categorical evidence of the complete independence of the European Ombudsman, and of the fact that the normal channel for the relationship between the Ombudsman and the European Parliament is the Committee on Petitions; a relationship which is clearly confirmed in the proposal for amendment which we must vote on.
It is my honour and my pleasure, Ombudsman, to thank you on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights not only for having taken an initiative which reflects the legal basis of your role, but also for having done the citizens of the European Union a great service in recognizing their rights.
In so doing you have admittedly also imposed an obligation upon the bodies and institutions of the European Union to review their practices.
For example, the Council must now ask itself whether it actually has the right to rule on what is and what is not legislation.
Parliament must also ask itself whether its rules of access have really developed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, Ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the Ombudsman and Mr Newman, Mrs Thors and Mr Crowley for their excellent reports.
These discuss both the Ombudsman's annual report for 1997, the Ombudsman's Special Report on public access to documents, and an amendment to Parliament's internal Rules of Procedure applicable to the Ombudsman.
I have read all of these reports with great interest.
It is, after all, through the Ombudsman that citizens of the EU have been given the chance to know how our administration works.
In the Ombudsman's annual report for 1997, just as in 1996, most of the Ombudsman's inquiries relate to the Commission.
This is normal, bearing in mind that the Commission is the institution that makes most of the decisions that directly concern the citizens.
In Mr Newman's report on the Ombudsman's annual report there are four main questions that I would like to comment on briefly.
The third point concerns the Ombudsman's efforts to improve the procedure for proceedings pursuant to Article 169 on the infringement of Community legislation by Member States.
I am convinced that such a code of conduct will lead to us improving our administrative practices, and that we can improve relations between the Commission's services and the citizens.
During 1997, the Ombudsman also presented a Special Report on the opportunities the public should have to access documents.
Finally, I would like to welcome Mr Crowley's report on an amendment to Rule 161 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
These amendments will further improve the Committee on Petitions' already good relations with the Ombudsman.
Mr President, it has been established in the Amsterdam Treaty that openness in the decision-making process shall be one of the Union's fundamental principles.
These two are not rivals but should complement one another.
However, the specific cases described in the Ombudsman's report, which are fascinating to read, show clearly that the work on complaints also makes it possible to objectify the debate.
Too often, citizens who are refused a request accuse the national or European administration of discrimination, and, in this respect, I think that the research carried out by the Ombudsman has a pedagogical value since it can be used to help our citizens have a better understanding of how the Community works.
However, if we consider that in 1997, 1 181 new complaints were received from a population of 370 million, we believe that there is a long way to go, all the more so because only 27 % of complaints received fell within the mandate of the Ombudsman.
I would also like to comment on the special report on access to documents.
To conclude, Mr President, I would like to express one regret.
Seventeen citizen's complaints have been submitted by Members of the European Parliament.
This is a low number and it proves that we MEPs have to make a personal effort on the ground in order to enlighten our European citizens as to their right to call upon the Ombudsman.
Secondly, and more specifically, concerning the work of the European Ombudsman, I want to express the special appreciation of the PPE Group for the work that the Ombudsman and his team have done and for the annual report for 1997.
I believe that this is a good example for other European institutions, also concerning the use of new communication technologies.
Firstly, only 27 % of the complaints fall within the mandate of the European Ombudsman, 27 % of the complaints lodged, of which approximately two-thirds were declared admissible.
Mr President, there are two reasons why the post of European Ombudsman is important.
Firstly, the right to consult the Ombudsman is one of the European civil rights which applies to all natural and legal persons who reside legally in the European Union.
Secondly, the high number of complaints shows how essential this function is and that certainly not everything in the European institutions runs smoothly.
Allow me to briefly refer to the conclusions of my report 'Citizenship of the Union' in connection with the operation of the European Ombudsman.
Firstly, it is of essential importance that the citizen becomes better informed about the role of the Ombudsman.
Thirdly, the activities of the Ombudsman can be improved by establishing national agencies in the Member States.
This would strengthen the role of the Ombudsman and these agencies could serve to refer matters which the Ombudsman services in the Member States are authorized to deal with, and vice versa.
In short, we, as the European Parliament, must ensure that the Ombudsman also contributes to the process of bringing Europe closer to the citizen.
Mr President, first I wish to congratulate all three rapporteurs on their excellent work.
His contribution has been a major one and, during his short term of office, it may already be said that the institution of Ombudsman has established its position in the European Union.
It is also important that he should have produced the first special report on public access to documents.
Unfortunately, working towards greater transparency often still leaves a bad taste in the mouths of those in some institutions, although I believe that we are making headway in this matter.
Another important point is that the Ombudsman has produced a definition of maladministration.
Mr President, when we investigate exactly which agencies are at present involved in creating transparency for the European Union, it is with gratitude that we cite the fundamental work of the Ombudsman.
And the Council cannot hide away, for citizens must have the general right of access to documents from the institutions of the European Union.
That is why it is important that the European Parliament bear the responsibility in the drafting of a regulation on transparency.
It was gratifying to hear the Commissioner say that a working document on this matter might appear in the autumn.
Rather too often such notions as general security and international relations are used as justification for denying access to documents.
Our group hopes that the Ombudsman might help to define these notions more exactly.
The Ombudsman's services have been able to deal with the 1 200 complaints which they have received; this is proof that this institution is beginning to be known but probably still not to a sufficient degree.
Independently of the complaints being referred, the initiatives taken by the Ombudsman are therefore very welcome, particularly as regards the definition of this notion of maladministration, which is not always easy to grasp.
Thus, it should be possible to make a clearer distinction between the responsibility of the Committee on Petitions and that of the Ombudsman.
There are 959 petitions waiting before Parliament and 227 referrals by the Ombudsman, carried forward one year to the next.
The Court of Justice has itself pointed out that the Community institutions must, and I quote "ensure the internal operation in the interests of good administration' .
In fact, the construction of Europe has always been too far away, or even voluntarily hidden from view, for us not to laud this proposal.
Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate Mr Söderman on his excellent report, and also the rapporteurs who have given their views on the Ombudsman's annual report and the transparency of the report.
I am delighted that it has been possible for us to discuss these reports this morning in conjunction with the reports on the Rules of Procedure and the annual report on the work of the Committee on Petitions.
But even the Ombudsman is bound in his work by the restrictions of the Treaty, and many complaints relate to maladministration, not in European, but in national institutions.
This is necessary because we must emphasize that it strengthens the democratic nature of these institutions, and it is appropriate to encourage, in particular, the Commission and the Council to progress towards this aim.
Perhaps this is the time to recall that positive indications are already being given in that direction.
The documents had been requested by the Swedish journalists' association; it only received from the Council four of the 20 documents required, yet it had been able to get 18 of the 20 documents through the Swedish authorities.
Another indication is that the European Court of Justice has just given a ruling for the first time on the directive on the freedom of access to information concerning the environment.
Given all of this, we agree with this report and, naturally, agree that access should be allowed to documents within the rules of the game involved.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we support this report and we congratulate both the rapporteur and the Ombudsman.
Furthermore, I would like to say that our group cannot support recital G of the report.
The ELDR Group will also vote against paragraph 22, which is quite simply incorrect.
The first concerns the fact that there are several important cases in the Court of Justice, such as the Guardian case and the journalists' case, which have given greater importance to openness.
I consider this association to be especially felicitous, because I believe that the citizen's right to submit a petition to the European Parliament and the right to lodge a complaint to the European Ombudsman are two basic rights which are fundamental for the European Union.
However, the right to make a complaint, as well as the right to submit a petition, is an opportunity, a practical test, a continuous sounding instrument in some way of the operation of the European Union: direct, with the citizen, with the active participation of the citizen.
A year ago exactly, as rapporteur for the annual report of the Ombudsman, I had the honour of presenting the views of the Committee on Petitions.
Mr Newman, our experienced rapporteur from the Committee on Petitions, has analysed the report and also the work of the Ombudsman.
I therefore thank and congratulate the European Ombudsman.
It was said previously that each year we repeat ourselves in this debate on petitions and complaints.
The office of the Ombudsman for Europe has gradually become inundated with petitions.
The common task of the European Parliament and the European Ombudsman is the protection of the rights of citizens and Union democracy.
The citizens of the Union have the right to require the office of the European Ombudsman who handles their complaints to have a sufficiently large legal staff available to it, one that has at least the same level of legal experience as the Community institutions under investigation.
His job has, in many ways, brought the citizens of Europe closer to us, an aspiration we continually speak about here in Parliament.
As I pointed out when I spoke earlier in this debate, he has also promptly responded to those who have petitioned Parliament.
I should just like to take this opportunity, while expressing my appreciation of our Ombudsman's work, to raise also the issue of the need for a special children's Ombudsman in Europe.
The debate is closed.
And since this is the home of democracy in Europe and also the most visible expression of the peace and liberty which the large majority of Europeans enjoy, I would call on you, Madam President, to welcome a group of Basque local councillors whose lives are threatened due to their beliefs and who are here to attend our debates today.
We demand the recognition of minority rights and regional languages at all levels.
As I was able to point out in my speech during the debate, this amendment precisely respects the very essence of the right of petition, which is, by its very nature, an individual right that the Treaty grants to every man or woman among us, without allowing any discrimination and, in particular, without making any distinctions between citizens and non-citizens.
The complementary - and therefore ancillary - rule is a procedural one which, irrespective of other considerations, respects the Treaties: in general, the procedure in a European institution must be carried out in one of the official languages.
I am happy to back this report which seeks to make the petition system in the European Parliament more accessible to our citizens.
Since we recognize minority EU languages as valid when they originate in Member States, there is no reason why for example Urdu or Hindi should not also be recognized.
Like with the rapporteur, we are anxious to prevent animals suffering stress, cold, heat, shocks, etcetera, and we would have voted in favour of most of the amendments as well as the text as a whole, if only the authors had given some consideration to the small livestock farmers who might take just two or three animals to market in a neighbouring village, small farmers who obviously do not have access to an air-conditioned vehicle, nor - most particularly - adequate financial means for such an investment.
We are choosing to vote against certain proposals from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as they constitute unnecessary detailed regulation and, to a certain extent, contravene the principle of subsidiarity.
With this in mind, I have voted in favour of the report.
There are three main issues of concern which should be evaluated further before full support is given.
We are aware that the topic of animal transport is a very important one, and that efforts must be made in this field in order to reach political goals and solutions.
Political guidelines are one thing, the partial implementation and technical execution of these principles quite another.
This report gives us another opportunity to consider the advantages of this "new approach' .
This procedure enables us to proceed and to make decisions in accordance with the planned allocation of roles.
We are at the dawn of a reform of several COMs and the Commission's proposals for regulations worry us a great deal.
If, in addition to these proposals, other Commission services impose draconian standards in all sectors, then the Commission will be penalising and discouraging the whole of the agricultural sector, as well as the whole of rural life.
It is said that a society can be judged by how it treats its weakest members.
The rapporteur has produced several very good proposals for amendments to the Commission's draft directive.
The proposed directive sets up the principle of direct action by the victim against the insurers of the person who caused the accident.
It obliges the insurer to propose compensation within a specified period and imposes a financial penalty.
These various measures, which are necessary, will improve the situation of the victims of road accidents throughout the European Union.
It is the first time in fact that we have been called upon to vote on a proposal for a directive based on the power of initiative accorded to the European Parliament by Article 138B of the Treaty.
In fact, the number of European citizens involved in road accidents outside their country of residence is estimated to be approximately 500 000 per annum.
The rapporteur notes, in this connection, that it costs at least fifteen times more to settle an accident abroad than it does in one's country of residence, and that it generally takes up to eight years!
This Directive will greatly benefit people involved in traffic accidents whilst on holidays in other European countries.
While this Directive will not solve all of their problems, it will mean that making a claim against someone in another country for an accident that took place in a third country will not be as difficult as it is at present.
I also welcome the fact that the Commission has followed through on the European Parliament's 1995 initiative highlighting this problem.
I am happy to back this report today as I have had to take up several cases involving constituents of mine who have been faced with car insurance problems after suffering the stress of accidents whilst travelling in another EU country.
Mr Schüssel was the first President of the Council to give a clear and forwardlooking message on Kosovo.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of a resolution condemning the violation of basic human rights that is taking place in Kosovo, and the violent attacks that Serbian security forces, units from the Yugoslav army and paramilitary forces are carrying out against the population of Kosovo.
We have heard very many irresponsible proposals in this place linking all progress towards peace with the recognition of independence of a so-called Kosovan nation.
The OSCE, currently chaired by Poland, can also make an positive contribution and the proposals made by the Austrian Presidency, which follow the same line, can also be useful.
Fourçans report (A4-0263/98) Madam President, the annual report of the European Monetary Institute, the last report by this institution before its transformation into the European Central Bank on 1 July, shows, as the rapporteur of our Assembly so nicely puts it, a certain bias towards generalization.
As the rapporteur suggests, the EMI report is very vague.
The introduction of the euro will not change anything in this inadequate system.
The latter, as the rapporteur clearly recognizes in paragraph 13 of his report, will be indifferent to the situation of each Member State.
In currency matters, it is often very dangerous to put our confidence in governments.
An automatic system based on gold, as was the case in Europe before 1914, would allow for greatly increased stability with a minimum of choice.
Once again, this ritual exercise shows its limitations, and I would like to support my colleague André Fourçans and the reservations expressed regarding certain aspects of the current relations between the Monetary Institute and the European Parliament.
A more accurate control system for the European economy would enable everyone to have a proper view of this, and would help to back up our own discussions in a more constructive manner.
In this respect, it would be rather prejudicial for future relations between our Assembly and the European Central Bank to continue in the same way.
I would add that, even quite recently, some of our colleagues expressed this same view during discussions on the ECB; commitments appear to have been made.
We agree that there is a need for more public and private investment to stimulate internal demand, that the EMI's explanation of EMS II is insufficient, and that there is a lack of perspective for the states of central and eastern Europe and their associated membership of EMS II in connection with the strategy of accession.
However, we do have reservations about the rapporteur's view to the effect that it is necessary to put together actual monetary policy at Union level, but we are in favour of coordinating monetary policy between Member States, for example in promoting employment.
The annual report of the European Monetary Institute, the last one before its liquidation and the establishment of the European Central Bank, is shorter due to the elimination of a large chapter that until now had been the main part: the analysis of progress in convergence of the individual Member States.
It will not lighten the crushing weight of the two large dominant groups in our Parliament.
The post- "Amsterdam' period will reform current procedures, which are too cumbersome, in order to move towards greater simplicity.
It is now legally possible to simplify, rationalize and accelerate the preparation of our legislative work.
The majority of our home countries have a two-chamber system.
All that is needed, in the first instance, is to define new rules to govern the operation of the European Parliament and relations between our different institutions.
Informal exchanges of opinion, coherent and joint work between our Assembly, the European Commission and the Council will make it possible to reach many agreements on first reading without impeding the transparency of the mechanism and by exchanging more information.
I therefore approve the Manzella report which hopes to make qualitative improvements in our legal procedure at first reading, second reading and conciliation, and to achieve more comprehensive planning of the annual legislative programme, which would have the advantage of enabling us to concentrate more on our priority objectives.
The Manzella report which the European Parliament has just adopted proposes a certain number of technical reforms, which are intended to take an example from the new codecision procedure provided for in Article 251 of the EC Treaty, modified by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We are all the less inclined to give credit to the European Parliament in this matter, since the codecision principle introduced by Maastricht and the extensions provided by the Amsterdam text seem to us to be far from satisfactory.
I also note that the French Constitutional Court, in its decision of 31 December 1997, noted for the first time that codecision, applied to certain fields, could damage the essential conditions for the exercise of national sovereignty.
In fact, this procedure allows the European Parliament, where French Members only hold 13 % of votes, to have the last word on vital questions for our country, in particular as regards the international movement of persons.
Now, the Amsterdam Treaty makes this situation even worse: on the pretext of simplifying the procedure, it strengthens the position of the European Parliament, which it turns into a co-legislator together with the Council, thus establishing a balanced situation in which the Manzella report discovers with satisfaction the characteristics of "a two-chamber legislative system' .
At the same time, it increases the number of cases where this strengthened procedure can be applied to twenty-five new fields.
These developments taken together give the European Parliament greater power and this represents one of the great federalist advances in the Amsterdam Treaty.
It takes away people's control of their destiny, whilst the European mechanisms do not offer a democratic quality or proximity equivalent to those of national parliaments.
In the future, it will be necessary to withdraw from codecision - for example, to start by rejecting the Amsterdam project - or to reintroduce balance by instituting the right of veto in national parliaments.
This report presented by our colleague Andrea Manzella is of great importance because the problem is to translate into reality the proposals of the Amsterdam Treaty.
I support the measures which are proposed here today, as I believe in the real and recognized power of the European Parliament.
This revision of the codecision procedure constitutes a really important step for our institution, as everyone here agrees.
This situation is seen not only in our relations with the Commission, but also, and this is just as important, in our wish to enter into a fruitful dialogue with the European Central Bank.
In both cases, it would seem that our Assembly has realized that it must make people aware of our legislative role.
Thus, how many Members of the European Parliament have spent more time and devoted more words to deploring the weaknesses of the Amsterdam Treaty rather than emphasizing the progress it brings with it, some of which it essential?
I would like to join him in saluting the fact that this Treaty will not only extend, but will also reform and simplify the mechanisms of the codecision procedure, so that the European Parliament will be a true co-legislator one day.
In fact, the Treaty lays down that this first phase could also be the last - and therefore give birth to a law of the Union - if the Council approves a proposal of the Commission which has not been amended by Parliament, or if the Council adopts all the amendments approved by Parliament.
Finally, I think he is right to insist on the fact that Parliament must take advantage of this opportunity to make important changes in its attitude at first reading: improvement of the legal quality of the texts, concentration on the main priorities, establishing new inter-institutional reports.
Well done, Mr Manzella.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the Manzella report.
However, the Danish Social Democrats are voting against the point concerned with providing written justification for all instances of the European Parliament adopting legislative amendments.
I am abstaining from the vote on this report, since my fundamental outlook is that the European Parliament should have not have any codecision procedure with the Council.
The rapporteur has made an ambitious attempt to shed light on this issue.
However, there are above all 3 paragraphs in the resolution that we cannot vote for, namely paragraphs 10, 12 and 21.
For this reason, we cannot vote for paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 21.
The Group of Independents of a Europe of Nations Group voted against the Frischenschlager report on the implementation of closer cooperation as provided for by the Amsterdam Treaty.
In fact, whereas cooperation between states is completely free in Europe (apart, of course, from matters which are codified by Community texts), the Amsterdam Treaty aims to incorporate everything into the Community mechanism by according a particular status within the Treaties to specific forms of cooperation.
Its ultimate aim is, therefore, to reduce the diversity of forms of cooperation in Europe, by forcing them into the mould of a single institutional framework, itself oriented towards the construction of a super-State.
A super-State and the various forms of unification which accompany it are of no use in this context.
Contrary to the declared intention, the various forms of cooperation incorporated in a single institutional framework entail great administrative complexity, as the new "Schengen' cooperation shows.
The Group of Independents of a Europe of Nations thinks that the various forms of cooperation in Europe must be left very free, under the control of the national parliaments.
European cooperation has played a fundamental role in the development of the Community as we know it.
This closer cooperation between Member States is meant to overcome blockages dues to the sometimes divergent expectations of members of the European Union.
Each, however, wishes to avoid having to implement closer cooperation mechanisms which would be perceived by the citizen as a declaration of failure.
The institutional reforms must therefore be clearly preferred and all our efforts must be devoted to this.
It seems illusory today to expect that closer cooperation would be the appropriate framework for meeting the main challenges of the European Union.
Europe must choose the right gear in order to adapt.
I welcome paragraph 7 of the motion for a resolution which underlines the exceptional and limited character of the area of closer cooperation, and paragraph 20, which considers it illusory to wait for the closer cooperation which could constitute a suitable institutional framework.
Closer cooperation would perhaps be a step forward, but it could also result in calling previous achievements into question.
The excellent report by our colleague Friedhelm Frischenschlager is a tiny piece of intellectual bravura.
If this is really the intention, ought there to have been a right of virtual veto for each Member State, provided that it cite "important reasons of national policy' , thus obliging the European Council to act unanimously?
If this was in fact the intention, ought there to have been provision made for the respect of an equal number of guarantees not only on substance - where they are totally justified - but also on procedure, where they are both cumbersome and ambiguous (in particular, how should the notion of "last resort' be defined?).
If it only served this purpose, closer cooperation would already be very useful.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the Frischenschlager report.
Thus, in cases where crucial interests are at stake for one or more Member States in connection with decisions that can be made by majority vote following a proposal by the Commission, we are in favour of the members of the Council seeking within a reasonable time to reach solutions that all the members of the Council can endorse, taking into consideration their respective interests as well as Community interests pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty.
The Amsterdam Treaty now provides such a possibility under strict conditions and with a guarantee that the veto will remain as a last resort for individual Member States to stop such proposals.
I have therefore voted against this report.
The extension of qualified majority voting within the Council is certainly the cornerstone of the institutional reforms to be undertaken if we wish to avoid institutional blockage within the European Union.
Unfortunately, Amsterdam has shown us that this is not at all the case, and that "closer cooperation' , as adopted in the new Treaty, is of the most limited kind (being limited primarily to the third pillar) and is probably inoperable.
The ELDR Group deplores the possibility offered by the Amsterdam Treaty to every Member State to oppose the implementation by qualified majority of provisions on closer cooperation for "important national policy reasons' , which have not been defined anywhere.
The ELDR Group considers the possibility of a veto to be both contradictory, in that it aims to resolve some blockages in this way, and disproportionate in relation to the scope of the likely applications.
Even before the Amsterdam Treaty was ratified by our peoples or their representatives, the European Parliament made use of a provision of the Treaty opening the possibility for Member States who so wished to cooperate more closely than before in some fields.
The reaction of the European Parliament is consistent with the dominant ideology which prevails there: it only wishes to see in this new provision a threat to the construction of a federal Europe which it wants to promote, and would like to restrict its effects as much as possible.
The same is true in the field of international relations.
The European Parliament routinely deplores the inefficiency of the CFSP, without wanting to recognize that this stagnation is structural.
This is underlined very clearly in this report by paragraphs 10, 12 and 21.
I do not believe in the creation of a federal Europe and am therefore voting against paragraphs 10, 12 and 21.
Weiler report (A4-0269/98) I have nothing against our colleague Barbara Weiler; her text is of high quality and I subscribe without hesitation to its recommendations.
Unfortunately, we must recognize that we are making only very slow progress in this field.
So I am astonished to see some of our colleagues objecting to simple common sense solutions in the name of I know not what fantasy.
The problem is minimal.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of improving the free movement of the workforce in the EU.
The rapporteur of the report deplores the Danish derogation in the legal field.
We have, nonetheless, voted in favour of the report in order to strengthen the rights of citizens of third countries.
This week we did not vote for the report for submission to the EU Commission for regulation of the admittance of thirdcountry nationals into the sovereign territory of the Member States because it had been peppered with demands from a majority from the same political camp which would have flooded our labour market, already numbering 18 million unemployed, with hundreds of thousands more job seekers, mainly cheap labour.
This report's stance on family reunification for third-country nationals goes far beyond what is tolerable, and in any case beyond the rights which have until now been granted to applicant countries during the transition period and those we will be able to grant new Member States upon accession.
Extending the scope of those entitled to join migrant workers to include same sex partners, family members regardless of their nationality, family members not living in the migrant worker's household and those who have more than one spouse or partner, would lead to a flood of immigration with which my small country, more than 37 % of whose population is made up of non-Luxembourg citizens, could simply not cope.
Especially acute is the problem of free movement faced by third-country nationals who legally reside within the boundaries of a Member State, during their movement within the boundaries of the European Union.
In addition, there must be regulation of the gaps that exist in the exercise of the right of residence for all those seeking work and for pensioners who reside permanently in another Member State.
We think that the Council must go ahead and approve the proposals concerning the amendment of the regulation on the coordination of social security systems for transient workers and extend its field of operation to include social security systems for civil servants and third-country nationals who are covered by the social security system of a Member State.
The need to protect the environment introduces significant constraints into our societies but we do not sufficiently highlight the new prospects which it offers in terms of employment.
In Europe, the number of jobs linked to the environment has, today, reached just over 3.5 million (source: Eurostat).
According to the OECD, annual growth in employment in the environment sector should reach 5.5 % in the next few years.
We must find the best possible compromise between the use of natural resources and jobs.
A reduction in taxation relieving the obligatory burden on employment taxes and transferring these at least in part to eco-taxes would help to promote such a development.
Such is the purpose of the amendments which the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations has tabled, some of which have been adopted by our Assembly.
The gaps in current provisions are, in fact, especially significant.
Mr President, I am very disappointed.
You know, or perhaps you do not know, that for nine years I have been trying to make something of the topical and urgent subjects debate, not a half-hearted attempt, but with my full devotion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sudden and, for some, mysterious death of General Abacha has opened up a new chapter in the events of this tormented country, Nigeria.
The European Union cannot fail to take note of the fact that the temporary successor of General Abacha, General Abubakar, has released a few political prisoners but it must also see that not all have been freed and that there are no specific guarantees that a democratic process will be rapidly started in Nigeria.
It is therefore the duty of the European Parliament to ask the Council and the Commission to follow the political situation in this country closely and to encourage the president with resoluteness in this very unstable period of transition to clearly commit himself to a return of the democratic order in this country.
Mr President, in only a few weeks the political situation in Nigeria has changed dramatically.
Firstly, the unexpected death of General Abacha, then the naming of a new ruler, General Abubakar, and finally the equally unexpected death of the imprisoned opposition leader, the elected president Abiola.
We, as the PPE Group, believe that the Union must exert greater pressure on Nigeria and on the new president Abubakar to immediately cease violation of human rights, release all political prisoners and restore democracy through democratic elections.
Nigeria - the great giant of Africa - is now paying the price for it.
Mr President, it is normal that one never rejoices about the death of a human being.
Mr President, there are really no longer any excuses to justify the continuation of the situation that unfortunately has characterized Nigeria for many years now.
Our Parliament has expressed itself repeatedly on the situation in Nigeria as has the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in a very significant way.
The disappearance of the dictator, General Abacha, which occurred last month, has rekindled some hope of a possible change.
The sudden death of the former president and opposition leader, Mr Abiola, which occurred on the eve of his release, has on the other dealt a great blow to a possible democratic process, because it has meant the disappearance from the scene of a key figure who enjoyed tremendous popular favour and support for the launch of a democratic transition.
The newly proclaimed president, General Abubakar, has freed a few political prisoners, but it is still not clear what his actual intentions are in terms of opening a new page in the history of Nigeria.
For these reasons, we call on the authorities in Lagos to immediately open a real democratic process, founded first of all on the opening of political dialogue with all the opposition parties, on the immediate release of all political prisoners, on an end to political and ethnic repression and on the launch of a process that leads to free elections.
We believe that for the international community and, particularly, for the Community institutions and the governments of the Union's Member States, the time has come to coordinate political action and pressure on the regime in Nigeria, beginning with full compliance with the sanctions in effect, in order to demand the change that we have been hoping for now for too many years but have so far not obtained in any form whatsoever.
Mr President, the dictator Abacha has, in fact, died, but the dictatorship remains; it remains with a new face visible in another soldier: Abubakar.
Some political prisoners have been freed, but the authoritarian structures are still in place there.
Many other political prisoners and prisoners of conscience are still in jail and, at the moment, the promises of democratization are only that: promises and words which have little substance.
I therefore believe that it is very important to ensure that, at this time, the European Union maintains a firm and demanding position with respect to the authorities in Lagos, and that in no way is any credibility given to the promises made, not even a minimum of credibility.
In this respect, a few of the insinuations made by Heads of State of the Member States of the European Union seem to me to be extremely worrying, such as those made by President Chirac, who appears to be determined to convince Europeans of the kindness of the promises of the new dictator Abubakar.
And, before that, we must achieve the release of all the political prisoners and the restoration of minimum fundamental freedoms.
Of course, we regret the fact that the president-elect, Abiola, has died - obviously due to a lack of medical care - and that he died in jail, days after Abacha.
Mr President, the death of Abacha, it has been said, has created, sadly enough but thankfully as well, new possibilities.
The Union must offer its assistance in terms of dialogue, and it must also strive to make the transition as successful as possible.
Democracy, Mr President, respect for human rights, building the constitutional state, these are still the best guarantees for stability and progress.
Mr President, Nigeria has been the scene of a long-running saga of unrest and brutality, and the outlook for democracy and human rights remains highly uncertain.
The sudden death of General Abacha may just possibly clear the way for a more hopeful future, but that is by no means certain.
Mr President, after a long period of deteriorating political and economic conditions and serious human rights violation in Nigeria, there now appears to be a window of opportunity - albeit a fragile one - for a more positive turn of events.
I welcome the statements made in this debate urging us to do so.
I recall that the on 13 July the Council urged General Abubakar to release all the remaining detainees and to clarify his plans for future elections.
We are in favour of closer dialogue with the Nigerian authorities to promote and if possible assist the transition to democracy.
The European Union has already taken the first steps in such a dialogue through a recent visit by Minister Lloyd representing the EU presidency.
These efforts should continue and it is important that other international bodies such as the UN and the OAU work actively in the same direction.
The Commission of course deeply regrets the sudden and tragic death of Chief Abiola on 7 July.
I can assure Mr Moorhouse that the Commission will closely monitor events in Nigeria and in the months to come the European Union will keep its policy towards Nigeria under review, including the question of the sanctions.
The aim of our policy will be to support and demand the full restoration of democracy and full respect for human rights.
Mr President, the liberals are delighted about the unified position taken in this case by the Council, Commission and Parliament and a large number of third countries regarding the regime in Minsk, Belarus.
The reaction of Lukashenko, the fact that he hopes that common sense and realism and not emotions will determine European policy, is a slap in the face for us.
The Union must be prepared for dialogue.
Given that Russia has, thanks in part to the Union, been granted a loan of 20 billion dollars, we would have grounds for expecting that this country would do more to put an end not to a return, as Mr Martens said, but to the persistence, in the heart of Europe, of a communist, Stalinist glacis .
Measures must also be taken at the level of the Council of Europe.
Mr President, President Lukashenko is taking his self-inflicted isolation of Belarus to excess.
The visa ban has been the only significant step taken by the Council.
In this context I as you, Mr Brittan: what is the Commission prepared to do, and what conditions do you intend to propose to the Council for the lifting of the visa ban?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sir Leon Brittan, I am delighted that you are here.
It will soon be our immediate neighbour.
The delegation had an extremely positive meeting in Brussels.
We are planning another meeting in Belarus in November and I would hope that all of us here will have the opportunity to attend and to continue our work on improving relations.
Representatives from Belarus have often reproached us for applying double standards, particularly with regard to human rights.
Of course, the quasi closure of the embassies is something we find wholly unacceptable, and our reaction to it is therefore, in my view, a very appropriate reaction.
Mr President, the draft resolution on the situation in Belarus is a work of art, a magnificent piece of disinformation to be classed as one of the wonders of the world, alongside the media lies of Timisoara or the Gulf War, a war which was said to be a precision instrument and which ended up as a dreadful butchery.
The German ambassador has already been appointed by the Council to go to Minsk in the next two to three days in order to sign the agreement.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's proposals for a resolution on Belarus.
In response to the last speaker, the fact that a government has been democratically elected does not absolve it from the obligation to obey international norms and respect for human rights.
Therefore, the Commission welcomes Parliament's proposals for a resolution because they demonstrate the deep concern of all European Union institutions about, for example, the repeated violations of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.
Furthermore, they show institutional solidarity with the European Union common position on Belarus, which has been regarded as quite a tough one.
Nonetheless, the Commission also hopes that the recent promises by Belarus to work towards a solution to the diplomatic crisis will soon materialise into constructive steps.
On 24 June Foreign Minister Primakov said to the European Union Ministerial Troika that Russia shared the Union's concern about Belarus and would try to use its good offices.
It has not so far pursued further discussions on the TACIS civil society development programme with the national coordinator, but we hope that current difficulties in dealing with Belarus will not hamper the resumption of a constructive dialogue with Belarus and counterparts on this programme.
At the same time, the policy must also seek to extend the hand of friendship and show readiness to cooperate with the Belarus Government if it gives effect to its stated promise to work towards a solution to the crisis and proceed in a way which will be acceptable to those who have expressed their concerns in this House and elsewhere about what has gone on in the past.
Mr President, I asked the Commissioner a question which he has not answered.
However, in answer to the debate I said that we want to avoid having to take further sanctions against Belarus, which implies that we fully reserve the right to do that if progress is not made.
Togo Mr President, last October, at the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Togo, I denounced the human rights violations, arbitrary sanctions, the lack of respect for freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
I denounced the dictatorial power of President Eyadema who has been in power for thirty years.
I would remind you that the Union's cooperation with Togo was suspended in 1992 and that its resumption was conditional upon respect of democratic principles and the organization of fair and open elections in June 1998.
The national electoral commission even resigned on 23 June this year.
In these circumstances, it is clear that the Union must maintain sanctions on Togo, and not resume cooperation, as long as issue of the electoral process has not been resolved.
Togo must know that democracy comes with a price tag and that impunity will no longer be accepted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Togo is a symbol of cooperation between Europe and Africa.
Several amendments to this text have been tabled.
Despite the promise given in connection with the meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Lomé, despite the fact that Togo has received all the help that the country requested from the EU, despite the fact that NGOs and other human rights organisations have been very involved in the election, and despite the Togolese population's feeling of responsibility, everyone has been let down and all assurances that democratic principles would be respected have been broken.
I must say that the Commission, the EU and the ACP-EU Joint Assembly really must be observant and keep an eye on continuing political developments in Togo.
Obviously, it was also on the basis of these assurances and these commitments that, rightly so, the European Commission undertook to support the electoral process, including from the financial point of view.
For this reason, the results of this first electoral round are not credible, and this was the judgement of the entire international community, demonstrating that pressure has to continue to be exerted on the Togolese authorities with great force.
Mr President, if Nigeria, which we have just debated, with the sudden tragic deaths of General Abacha and Chief Abiola, could have perhaps given rise to a tragedy written by a modern Sophocles, then the case of Togo could be worthy of a vaudeville.
And it could be described like that if it were not offensive to the people of Togo, who have participated with real enthusiasm and with a democratic will in this first round of presidential elections.
We can only hope now that General Eyadema, satisfied with more than 30 years in power, recognizes that he cannot continue to be a type of "Mobutu the Second' and that he allows a democratic solution whereby the Togolese people can state their opinions with the freedom that they have lacked until now.
In any event, we find ourselves in a situation in which it is impossible, for example, to have a debate on Angola, where President Dos Santos does not wish to proceed on to the second round of the presidential election which would legitimize him, and this shows that we have a policy for Togo which we do not apply to Angola.
Mr President, several political groups in our Assembly have decided to ask questions about the presidential elections in Togo.
I, for my part, was present, as I was sent as an observer by my group and I can confirm that the operation went very smoothly in Lomé, in most of the 617 polling stations, and I was able to visit a large number of these stations, including some in the Bé district.
I have Decision No E 05/98 of 8 July of the Constitutional Court of Togo, which confirms what I myself observed and explained as early as Monday, 22 June in a communiqué.
But in those polling stations, the outgoing president obtained less than 10 % of the vote.
Finally, the Constitutional Court annexed to its decision all the documents, including the results of the vote counts.
Mr President, I was in Togo as a representative of the radical left party and I was part of a small group of parliamentarians who were there.
May I be permitted to say that even if it is the rule of our Assembly and whereas by means of assistance from DG VIII, we have provided fairly unique and exceptional technical support for a presidential election in Africa, it is not normal for an election of this kind that our Parliament did not send a parliamentary team of observers to help with this election.
We would perhaps have had a totally different debate from the one we are holding now in favour of this resolution.
Mr President, I would like to specify that my Amendment No 6 is not intended to replace Article 4, but in fact to complement it.
In conclusion, Mr President, it is the Togolese people who are being penalised in this matter and not Mr Eyadema.
It is difficult to establish what really happened, but we cannot forget that, when we decided to hold the Joint Assembly in Lomé, our decision was based on the return of conditions of substantial democracy and not only formal democracy, and all the Community institutions must focus their attention on this aspect.
Guinea-Bissau Mr President, Commissioner, according to the latest calculations the recent crisis in GuineaBissau has left several hundred people dead and about 400 thousand homeless.
It is vital that the industrialized countries of Europe or other parts of the world should not march into Africa under the flag of economic-interest diplomacy, because this often causes tension, but rather help Africa to find its own way to development, democracy and respect for human rights.
I believe the Commission and the international community can play an important part in preventing this deterioration of the peace process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation which has existed in Guinea-Bissau for almost four and a half months is reaching alarming proportions, indeed tragic proportions where the future of the country is concerned, with the sacrifice of human lives and fundamental rights and the destruction of major physical and economic infrastructures.
In that respect I should like to emphasize three basic points, which in fact are in line with my group's motion.
In the second place, I would like to say that the direct or indirect introduction of foreign troops into an internal conflict in a foreign country is absolutely deplorable and they must be withdrawn from Guinea-Bissau as an urgent and inevitable precondition for any peaceful solution.
In the third place, I would like to emphasize that it is vital to find a peaceful solution to the conflict by political means that respect the fundamental rights of citizens, preserve their collective future and respect democratically-elected institutions.
It is in this hope that I support our appeal to the United Nations Security Council, the OAU and the European Union that they actively endeavour to find a political solution to end this deplorable and fratricidal war.
Unfortunately, the reports we have received are worrying.
In addition, among journalists and those working for human rights there are many who are afraid.
Our group does not wish paragraph 9, demanding the non-intervention and withdrawal of all foreign troops, to feature in the resolution, because we think that the presence of Senegalese troops is still needed in order to combat the rebels and stabilize the situation in the country.
Put simply, we would like paragraph 9 to be dropped from the resolution.
Madam President, Commissioner, it was originally intended that my colleague Mr Barros Moura should speak at this point.
If we do not act quickly and effectively, the situation will deteriorate day by day in humanitarian terms.
In addition, this House has condemned the military coup, as we have done on previous occasions, and has supported the restoration of constitutional and institutional order, which means respect for institutions, especially the elected Parliament, but also respect for human rights (on this point see in particular the petitions by the NGOs and Amnesty International itself).
Finally, there must be an immediate cease-fire, saving human lives and enabling the country to start functioning again while searching for a peaceful political solution that guarantees Guinea-Bissau's territorial independence and integrity.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have followed the developments in the situation in Guinea-Bissau with great concern.
Being familiar with the country (we were there not long ago), since the outbreak of the war which has been dragging on since 7 June, we are on the side of those who have unequivocally supported a political solution to end the war, and most of all to end the suffering of a people.
Thus we demand that a political solution be sought, leading to and guaranteeing the maintenance of peace and respect for the cultural and territorial integrity of Guinea-Bissau, ending the involvement of other countries in the war, and encouraging foreign military forces to return to their own countries.
Our position as Members of the European Parliament and Portuguese citizens can only be to affirm and give practical expression to our active and disinterested solidarity in both political and humanitarian terms.
Only when all this has been done will the conditions be in place for reconciling the political process with a national government of reconstruction and the holding of legislative and presidential elections which will enable Guinea-Bissau to commence a new stage in its history in 1999.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of Guinea-Bissau is nothing more than a specific part of a larger picture in a region of Africa that, like other regions, is continually destabilized politically to the point that there is little real political authority or concrete guarantees for the population.
The other objective, in the medium to long term, is to promote a peace process that, although certainly dangerous and difficult, is also the only condition for development of this area.
Burma Madam President, the Liberal Group is pleased that there is a strong text about Burma.
I find it particularly regrettable to have to reprimand Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, but nonetheless I must express my astonishment concerning his condemnation of the boycott policy of the state of Massachusetts.
We, the Liberals, believe that the European Union must support the appeal of President Clinton of May of this year.
His call for a ban on new investment should be an example for us, Commissioner.
It is known that the military government fears that the situation will escalate even further around 8 August, because the remembrance will take place then of the student revolt of a number of years ago which cost so many lives.
Madam President, we have previously made requests in this Parliament for a halt to European investment.
Against this background it is incomprehensible - I say this to Sir Leon Brittan - that he has lectured Massachusetts because they have simply begun doing this.
What we want from the Commission and the Council is in fact to follow the United States and stop investment and put the regime in Burma under more pressure.
Perhaps he finds it more valuable to gather the opinions of all and sundry in the corridors of Parliament, which would perhaps explain the first proposals which he has put to us.
Just as the Americans, for once, have a very clear position on this matter, the European Union could usefully join with the United States and try, once and for all, to put an end to this absurd regime.
And now the growing numbers of Karen and Shan refugees in Thailand present new problems for the countries of ASEAN.
We should encourage the UN Human Rights Commissioner, Mary Robinson, to install permanent observers in Burma to monitor human rights.
We call on the Burmese Government to permit the UN special rapporteur on Burma to visit the country freely, and to allow him to carry out his mandate by guaranteeing him full access to the regions inhabited by the Karen people.
The NLD has called for Parliament to be convened by 21 August and has also repeatedly called on the military rulers to engage in dialogue.
The Commission and Council have to implement full economic sanctions against Burma and prohibit any investment until the situation as regards human rights violations has been settled.
Sudan Madam President, today the newspapers have made the happy announcement that the warring parties in southern and northern Sudan have agreed to a cease-fire.
I hope that several hundred thousand people in southern Sudan can now be saved from starvation.
This development is indeed the first step in the framework of an active European policy, and hopefully on this basis preparations can begin for a referendum on the independence of southern Sudan.
International supervision will be essential if this referendum is to proceed in an honest fashion.
I believe that the Council is right in supporting the IGAD and in endeavouring to engineer things so that we can send another ministerial mission to Khartoum and Nairobi and put a stop to the fighting.
The dramatic pictures that we have received these past few weeks, like in the past, of famine and the consequences of war, particularly in the regions of southern Sudan, have again drawn our attention to the situation of this country.
Madam President, to improve the humanitarian situation in Sudan this Parliament has adopted five resolutions with the same intent during the past ten months.
Yesterday, in my opinion, the Austrian President-in-Office answered the Members' questions sufficiently.
Therefore, I think it wise to ask the Parliament to turn its attention towards a country where conflict is breaking out.
A country that in the year 2000 can provide one million barrels of oil and where 60 % of the population lives below the subsistence level.
Presidents Kabila, Dos Santos and Nujoma have agreed to allow the Angolan army - and this is the country I am speaking about - to carry out their operations on their territories.
Madam President, when the outcome of a civil war unites with repression, the infringement of human rights and drought, the result is what we have been seeing in the press in recent days: the threat of a terrible ravenous hunger affecting hundreds of thousands of people.
Therefore, the United Nations has called on the Commission and the Member States to provide as much humanitarian aid as possible.
In any case, we must support the peace process.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once more our Parliament is called upon to make a statement on the situation in the Sudan, without however being really convinced, either of the effectiveness of its previous interventions, or of the currency and exhaustiveness of its information.
Thus, the joint motion for a resolution submitted for our attention obviously ignores both the few improvements in access to areas hit by food shortages authorized by the Sudanese government as well as the cease-fire decreed by the southern movement, led by John Garang.
It does not highlight the relative progress that has been made towards the setting up of a democratic system, as represented by the adoption of the Sudanese constitution, or the developments in the negotiation progress between the main parties to the conflict.
In general, it does not appear to be based on a detailed analysis of the causes of the civil conflict in the Sudan, on sufficient understanding of the situation on the ground, or on the influence of external interventions, in a region where political instability is almost all-pervasive.
While we must of course approve of the interest shown by Europe in re-establishing peace and democracy in the Sudan, it would seem to us that the efforts designed to achieve these objectives require a new type of approach, a method based first of all on better information, in conjunction with arranging a mission on the ground or organizing hearings for representatives of parties to the conflict.
Situation in Georgia and Abkhazia Madam President, the conflict in Abkhazia in the Caucasus has again flared up.
The cease-fire of 25 May did not last long.
Despite the efforts of the United Nations and the OSCE, the situation is still tense, to use an understatement.
We must redouble our efforts to promote sustainable peace and development in the region.
Georgia is a strategic region for the European Union.
It represents access to central Asia, Marco Polo's famous silk trail, the oil reserves in Azerbaijan where the English, French, Italians and other countries in the Union already have a strong presence.
The only way to ensure stability in the region is to allow Georgia to join the European Union quickly.
We therefore urgently advise the parties to take an active role in the UN peace process, and have reiterated this in point 2 of the resolution in which we call for adherence to the 1994 Moscow Agreement on a cease-fire and separation of forces and the 1998 cease-fire protocol, as well as to the obligation to refrain from all use of force.
Madam President, reading this resolution and comparing it with the events of the last 48 hours, I have to say that there appears to be some discrepancy.
For only the day before yesterday a Polish woman from the United Nations, Maria Magdalena Wewiorska, 31 years of age, was shot dead in Georgia, probably by Georgian criminals.
Madam President, the conflict in Abkhazia is one of those conflicts which always fill us with concern because, after the military debacle, hatred amongst the population is so deep that it splits it, and efforts to secure peace progress very slowly.
Vietnam Madam President, there is not a lot to say about Vietnam, other than this is the first time that our Parliament is preparing to give its opinion on a matter which, sadly, is still taboo for many Members of our European Parliament.
I would like to thank the colleagues from the PPE and from the Liberal Group for having supported this resolution.
Unfortunately, the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the European United Left do not support it.
Of course, there is no Pinochet there, but the human rights situation is not getting any better.
It is a dictatorship, a red dictatorship, and therefore a lot more tolerable, but it is a dictatorship nevertheless, and I think that it is important for our Parliament to remember this.
If we look at the whole history of Vietnam, we can see that there is one part of Vietnam where we have become accustomed to seeing human rights infringed and abused and another part where - in our version - this did not happen in the same form at least until the 1970s.
Madam President, with regard to Togo, the conditions under which the elections were held there on 21 June prompted the EU to adopt a statement on 26 June expressing our deep concern at the conduct of the election and doubts about the credibility of the result announced by the Minister for the Interior, namely a first-round victory for President Eyadema.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Union has invited the Togolese Government to hold consultations in keeping with the procedure set out in Article 366a of the Lomé Convention.
The first phase of the consultations will give the Togolese Government the opportunity to explain the irregularities observed during the process and say what measures have been or are to be adopted to remedy them.
If this preliminary phase does not give satisfactory results for the two sides, our commitment on cooperation could be put into jeopardy.
The launch of this procedure shows the importance we attach to this electoral process.
We are aware of the difficulties currently facing the civilian population, in particular the lack of food, medicines and water.
That is why, through ECHO, the Commission has released ECU 1 million in humanitarian aid for the distribution of food, water and medicines to those who have been displaced to the interior of the country.
The Commission supports the mediation efforts of a number of regional leaders and Member States, including those of Angola and Portugal, and calls on all parties to the conflict to negotiate a definitive cease-fire.
We use every opportunity to urge the government to engage in peace talks and enter into substantive dialogue with the opposition led by Aung San Suu Kyi and the ethnic minorities.
The Commission has explained to this House on many occasions that it does not have the power to impose sanctions or call on the private sector to refrain from investing.
But it is a great mistake, to put it mildly, for an individual state in a friendly country to seek to pursue a foreign policy of its own by exerting unacceptable pressure on businesses in the European Union.
We are co-funding a project of the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung , which has set up a Euro-Burma Office in Brussels, aiming to build awareness and disseminate accurate information on the true situation in Burma.
With regard to Sudan, the European Commission shares the general view that the only means of bringing about a peaceful solution to the conflict is a lasting negotiated settlement based on an all-inclusive political process undertaken by all parties.
We have encouraged and expressed our full support for its diplomatic efforts.
We reaffirmed our commitment to support that at the last meeting of the Partners' Forum Committee in The Hague last month.
With regard to Georgia and Abkhazia, the Commission fully supports the presidency's declaration of 2 June and salutes the statesmanlike restraint shown by President Shevardnadze, which has prevented a further escalation of violence.
It calls on all parties to honour their commitments, including the cease-fire protocol signed on 25 May.
Finally, with regard to Vietnam, the Vietnamese Government has announced that a general amnesty will be held on 2 September this year.
That should be the most important amnesty in Vietnam in recent years.
We must maintain pressure on the Vietnamese leadership to improve respect for human rights, in particular freedom of religion.
We also have to encourage and support moves in the right direction such as the commitment to hold the general amnesty in September.
A clear message was given to the Vietnamese Government by the Head of Delegation in Hanoi at the consultative group's mid-term review in Hue on 15 and 16 June, when it was stated that the EU considers the good governance exercise with Vietnam to be an important element in giving a political dimension to relations between the two sides.
The Commission hopes that the European Parliament will use the present resolution to send a positive appeal to the present Vietnamese leadership to use the September amnesty as a unique opportunity to respond to the expectations of the international community, drawing particular attention to the individual cases about which the European Union has already expressed serious concern.
The forthcoming EC-Vietnam Joint Commission in October will provide the occasion to judge the scope of the September amnesty and in particular to see what consideration has been given to the individuals on the EU list of political detainees.
It is not a question of just tabling a resolution.
Madam President, I have asked the Commissioner if the EU mission in Luanda would send out a signal to prevent a new war in that country.
The debate is closed.
Greater suffering, Commissioner, Mr President, and more destruction call for more and greater solidarity - on the part of the European Parliament, but also on the part of the Commission and the Council.
The European Parliament totally supports these decisions, the immediate taking of which is not merely a necessity, but is demanded by the whole population of the Community.
I would only like to say that, dramatically, only a few short months after one natural disaster in the Azores which caused several deaths through floods and landslides, there has now been another disaster.
On behalf of my group I would like to express full support for this motion, and also to affirm my confidence that the Commission will also help the Portuguese Government and the Regional Government of the Azores to find measures such as those already mentioned here, particularly the reinforcement of the REGIS programme and the Operational Programme for the Azores, to demonstrate our solidarity with this people who have been so severely afflicted, because I believe that unless that solidarity exists and is demonstrated, there will be no true spirit of European construction.
Madam President, there are three points I would like to mention, as one of the signatories.
Firstly, we know the Community budget includes a financial allocation for disasters, and we therefore ask for an increase in the allocation of Community funds to the Operational Programme for the Azores and the REGIS II initiative so that the Portuguese Government's solidarity with the Azores is not undermined by a web of bureaucracy in Brussels.
The current reform of the Fund regulations is a good opportunity to open that particular door.
We shall do our part in the Azores, but special help in reconstruction from the country and the European Union is essential.
What I do hope for, and I think it is reasonable to hope for, is an increase in the funds allocated to the Azores under the Community Support Framework, and those coming from the REGIS Community Initiative, bearing in mind that the calculation of the total damage to date stands at a minimum of ECUS 90 million (18 billion escudos).
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 9 July 1998 will be just one more tragic date to add to the many others that for the saddest of reasons will remain in the memories of the people of the Azores.
The facts are that at dawn on 9 July the people of the Islands of Faial, Pico and São Jorge were woken by a violent earthquake which left eight people dead, around a hundred injured and over fifteen hundred homeless.
Once again - and in this House - we reaffirm the importance of the introduction of an article in the Treaty of Amsterdam providing for differentiated and specific treatment for the ultra-peripheral regions.
In these situations, apart from expressions of sympathy, votes of condolence and verbal assurances of solidarity, which are always welcome, we should take practical action in the form of immediate direct support for the Government and citizens affected, so that not only will the public utility infrastructures be rebuilt, but elderly families without financial resources will also have their homes rebuilt.
That is why we are suggesting to the Council, in the context of the national solidarity which has already been expressed in the reinforcement of the specific development programme for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, that it should take action to reinforce the REGIS Community initiative with funds from other Community initiatives which are not expected to be used by 1999.
It was natural for all the countries of the European Union, including my own as a neighbouring country, to hasten to the aid of the suffering populations in that region of Turkey.
Madam President, I share the emotion and the solidarity for the victims of the recent catastrophic earthquake in Adana and I naturally support any financial and technical aid that the European Union can offer.
In this connection I think that the European Union may play a decisive role.
For this earthquake occurred in the south of Turkey, in a region which is highly dependent on tourism.
It is we - not the European Parliament, but rather the European Union - who have blocked a considerable percentage of the payments due to Turkey to date.
This earthquake was fairly strong, 6.3 on the Richter scale.
It is therefore incomprehensible that the Turkish government is now planning to construct a nuclear power station, the first one in Turkey, only 100 km from this area.
I would like to ask the Commissioner what the Commission intends to do to appeal to Turkey and tell the country that it should not construct a nuclear power station in an area that is so vulnerable to earthquakes.
Because of their geophysical and climatological conditions, most regions in the countries of southern Europe are ravaged by fires.
I in turn would like to stress that the European Union must deal with the matter in a systematic way, in collaboration with all national bodies, so that the appropriate initiatives can be taken for a system that will prevent and tackle such damage.
Madam President, every year in Greece and in other Mediterranean countries of the Community enormous areas of forests are burned.
Moreover, inadequate prevention and lack of proper surveillance are the result of the delay in the completion of the national land registry and the non-existence of national action plans within the framework of Community Regulation 308/97 for the protection of Community forests against fire.
I call on you, Commissioner, to inform us: firstly whether the action plans were handed over to you by the Greek government in 1997 and what sums of money were pledged for that purpose from the Community budget; secondly, what is happening with the work of the national land registry which is being financed by the second Community Support Framework and for which the Greek government was requested to make cutbacks and to transfer money to other works.
With regard to the specific issue in hand, concerning the fires in Greece first of all, I would like to agree with my colleagues and to ask the Commission whether it plans to exert the necessary pressure, which it has the obligation to exert, on the Greek government concerning this famous land registry, which does not exist and which causes Greece to burn every year.
Nevertheless, the Commission, given its powers and responsibilities, has a very important role to play in the prevention of fires in the long term.
Madam President, beginning with the situation in the Azores and in Greece, may I say that the Commission obviously sympathises very much with the victims of the fires in Greece and the earthquake in the Azores.
With regard to aid for the victims of these catastrophes, the Community budget for 1998 does not contain appropriations for emergency aid inside the European Community, but the areas affected by these calamities are recipients of Structural Funds aid under Objective 1.
With regard more particularly to the earthquake in the Azores, the Commission has had initial contacts with the regional and national authorities to examine the possibilities, within the Community support framework for Portugal, of financing the necessary rebuilding work following the earthquake.
Moreover, the specific programme for the prevention of forest fires can also contribute to improving prevention systems, and it should be noted that the appropriations under this programme were reduced from ECU 23 million in 1997 to ECU 17 million in 1998.
Again, I would like to express our sincere sympathy and condolences to the families and individuals affected in this tragic event.
The latest reports from the Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent say that there are approximately 300 000 people living in tents, but the assessment of the damage continues.
The Turkish Red Crescent, Kizie Ay, provided immediate relief assistance in the form of tents, blankets, food supplies and mobile kitchens and over 1000 units of blood were also supplied.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in light of the sensitivity of the subject we are dealing with, it was in my view a wise decision to leave open to the Council and the Commission the detail of the text of the resolution specifying the means by which they intend to exert pressure on the relevant institutions and governments to effect the restitution of property belonging to Holocaust victims to those persons who are legally entitled to it.
However, precisely because that is the case, because this openness was necessary, I should now like to draw attention to and underline what Mr De Giovanni has already said.
However, I would like to conclude with a reference to a historical imperative for action by the European Union.
Madam President, 50 years after the greatest tragedy of this century, the victims have still not received fair treatment, and their possessions and goods have still not been returned to them or their heirs.
My group has nothing more to add to this, and we support this position completely.
Switzerland, the first country in connection with which the issue of assets of Holocaust victims arose, has made a move towards some kind of arrangement, following pressure brought to bear by the international community.
Mr President, today, 53 years after the military defeat of the Nazi regime, it is shameful that appeals still need to be made to governments and banks for assets stolen from Jewish people during the Holocaust to be returned to the survivors and their heirs.
However, the Shoah, the mass murder of 6 million Jewish children, women and men in Europe, can never be compensated for.
However, we have not signed the joint text because we think that paragraph 1 has been drawn up in a very clumsy way and it is likely to downgrade the essential challenge of this text and turn the matter into a mediocre lobbying issue.
I hope the Commission and Council will also consider the Romanies and homosexuals, in addition to the Jews, with regard to the restoration of property.
The National Alliance delegation is particularly pleased that this was expressed by our House, considering it a natural conclusion of the passage through Parliament that it precisely sought with its two political initiatives on this topic: the written declaration of 14 January 1998 and the subsequent motion for a resolution of 20 May 1998.
Mr President, I do not think there can be any need for me to say how strongly I respect the feelings and views expressed in this debate by so many Members from all sides of the House.
All that the Commission can do in its contacts with the Swiss side is to express the view that it would seem to me to be very much in the Swiss interest to do the utmost to settle the issue in a satisfactory manner and, indeed, in a way that would satisfy those who have spoken in this House.
Although it is a fact that the Commission does not have competence here, I can say that I personally warmly welcome the fact that there has been this debate in this House and that the views that have been expressed have been expressed.
Mr Nordmann, there has certainly been a misunderstanding between the Liberal Group's request and the text that has been presented to me, because indeed during your speech this wording was very clear.
The procedure for rejecting the oral amendment has the very legitimate objective of protecting Members against the dangers of not understanding an amendment.
You took the right action, but I think our colleagues abused this procedure, because this means that 12 people have imposed a text wanted by a minority on a House which was, by a very large majority, in favour of a different text.
Therefore our colleague's remark was not totally correct.
It is, therefore, quite right that the citizens of the European Union should also have access to this right, which has been enshrined in law since the Maastricht Treaty entered into force.
It is important, therefore, that the Committee on Petitions has access to the necessary resources, in terms of both staff and equipment, in order to deal with the many requests which it receives annually with great efficiency and diligence.
Parliament has a right to expect that Council officials will also participate in the work of the Committee on Petitions.
The attitude of the Council and the paucity of means are all the more damaging since a close examination of the petitions is also an excellent way for the institutions to evaluate the extent of the application of and true respect for Community law in the various Member States.
Similarly, we must also be satisfied with the favourable reception which the Ombudsman has given to our proposal to draw up a common set of general administrative rules applicable to all the institutions and to all bodies of the European Union in the form of an code of good administrative behaviour.
This very positive evaluation cannot, however, disguise the fact that only 3 % of the 1 412 complaints regarding maladministration registered during the past year have resulted in a comment, a regulation or an amicable solution.
The purpose of a close study of the complaints sent to the Ombudsman is also, in fact, to contribute to an improvement in the running of the Community institutions and organs and to their credibility.
With this in mind, it would seem to be essential to extend and strengthen cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions.
Mr President, I am happy to support this report which deals with a new and important part of the EU's institutions, the office of the Ombudsman.
The Ombudsman fills what had been a gap in our way of working, by allowing members of the public to submit a complaint when they suffer from maladministration by the EU's institutions.
However, the Ombudsman has still played a useful role for the public by asking the Commission to improve people's rights in the run-up to judicial cases resulting from complaints, which the Commission has now done.
Openness and transparency are decisive prerequisites for a democratic system if decision-makers are to be held accountable for the decisions they make.
In our opinion, the right of access to documents should be the rule in the EU rather than the exception.
The first special report to Parliament by that institution's Ombudsman is already in itself certain proof of the great importance of the institution of Ombudsman.
The Ombudsman is a vitally important institution and person from the point of view of the aims of Parliament.
It is most definitely necessary, on this basis, to continue to develop common administrative rules for the Union's institutions and boards.
Denied-boarding compensation system in scheduled air transport The next item is the report by Mr González Triviño (A4-0240/98), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 295/91 establishing common rules for a denied-boarding compensation in scheduled air transport.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the topic we are going to debate is of great importance for European citizens.
Due to the policy of liberalizing air transport in recent years, we have experienced both a considerable reduction in the costs of many flights and a significant rise in the number of passengers.
This phenomenon, already known by its English name, overbooking, represents a serious inconvenience for those affected.
The European Commission has taken the decision to review the legislation currently in force, which dates from 1991, with the dual aim of guaranteeing that citizens are precisely aware of their rights and adapting the compensation for the material damage and inconvenience affecting the victims of overbooking.
The draft presented to this House for consideration is the result of broad consultations carried out with all the parties involved in the sector: users, consumers, unions, airline companies, etcetera.
The present proposal has the following main aims: to put an end to the distinction between scheduled flights and nonscheduled flights, which has remained obsolete in the liberalization of air transport and the birth of new companies; to guarantee that passengers receive adequate information regarding their rights if they are denied boarding even though they are in possession of a valid ticket; to adapt the monetary amounts for compensation in accordance with the current economic situation; and to avoid a situation whereby passengers whose flights are cancelled for commercial reasons are defenceless and do not receive any compensation.
In line with the Commission, we propose that the rules concerning the right to compensation for overbooking should be laid out in plain and intelligible language and distributed by the Commission to the main consumer organizations in the European Union.
Similarly, it is our hope that passengers' rights might be displayed for the public at the check-in counters in English or in the local language or languages in letters at least 1 cm high.
All of the amendments are acceptable, but I would like to make a clarification as regards Amendment No 10, which calls for the inclusion of the text in question on the ticket.
We are losing a great companion, a great worker and also a great woman.
Good luck and many thanks for your contribution to the European Union.
I would like to congratulate the Commission because its proposal to modify this regulation represents a new advance in its policy on consumer protection - which is slow, at times, yet firm - and, in this case, it concerns a very specific and important sector for consumers, that is, the sector concerning passengers on commercial airlines.
Whoever owns or manages an airline must know that he does not own just any kind of company - be it public or private -, a production facility with exclusively lucrative ends, but instead owns a company which provides services in the general interest and which, therefore, has two characteristics that other companies do not have.
Firstly, the protection of those who pay for these services in the general interest is more important, if that is possible, than that of any other customers paying for other less necessary services.
However, I must mention one fundamental objection, Mr President: in the Commission's proposal and in the report, significant improvements are put forward to favour the customer, but overbooking is not questioned.
I believe that we can be very happy with the Commission's submission on denied-boarding compensation for scheduled air transport.
In particular, we think it is right that with effect from next year - I am assuming that it will come into effect next year - passengers who are unable to travel due to overbooking, despite the fact that they have valid and confirmed tickets, will receive increased compensation of ECU 185 on flights up to 3 500 km and ECU 379 on flights over 3 500 km.
There are very good airline companies - as most of them are, in fact - which, when they have overbooked, take the initiative to offer compensation themselves.
Given these circumstances, it is becoming urgent to review the Community regulation on the denied-boarding compensation system, in order to increase the protection and rights of users and to dissuade companies from using such methods, guarding against the legalization of a commercial practice which is unacceptable and reprehensible for users.
I support the amendments contained in the report by our colleague, Mr González Triviño, which oblige companies to respect stricter rules thanks to a better compensation system for users and to fuller and more accessible information.
The increase in the number of flights and the race to fill aircraft have led some companies to abuse these practices.
It is a good report and I would also like to thank him sincerely for his kind words, because this is indeed the final debate in which I will take part in this Parliament.
It is true that on behalf of my group I tabled an amendment in order to obtain greater insight, especially for the benefit of the consumer organizations, about which airlines are most guilty of overbooking and therefore of denying boarding to their passengers.
I thank you for the contribution that you have made, in particular for the way in which you chaired the Committee on Women's Rights and which has been appreciated by all.
The Commission's proposal, strengthened by the amendments of the rapporteur, improves this situation.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his clear report.
A situation must be avoided in which airline companies are enabled to evade their obligations by intentionally failing to provide information or by disinformation.
Do not forget that recent American experience demonstrates that the percentage of passengers who do not turn up at the check-in desk has fallen from 10 % to 8 % as a consequence of better information.
But, in conclusion, we are going to support this report.
What he has told us is very interesting.
Mr President, the aim of the proposal that we are examining today is to amend current legislation on compensation for denied boarding, to improve the management of problems stemming from overbooking and to protect, in the final analysis, the citizen from any abuse that might be committed by the airline companies.
The parliamentary committee has thus aligned itself with the new proposals presented by the Commission to provide maximum protection of the thousands of passengers who each year are refused a seat on board, even after having booked a long time in advance, and to protect others from the confusion created by the lack of clarity in the rules applicable to cases of reimbursement owed for the cancellation of a flight.
Lastly, we are pleased with the legislation because it provides for, finally, the protection of the rights of consumers in air transport services.
Mr President, let me say first and foremost that I do not believe that what we are discussing here is something which the EU or the European Parliament should be concerned with.
He would probably be a lot more embarrassed if he were not provided with accurate information about his consumer rights and, indeed, suffused with embarrassment if he were bumped from a flight and did not have a sufficiently dependable system of regulation to ensure that in these circumstances he could effectively exercise his rights as a consumer.
The rules laid down by the denied-boarding compensation regulation of 1991 have been useful in protecting passenger interests but new developments in the sector and failure properly to apply the regulation by too many airlines certainly justify a number of improvements.
This proposal, therefore, refines and updates the existing rules by providing better information to passengers, by increasing the compensation levels on the basis of economic trends since 1991 and by taking account of relatively recent developments in civil aviation like code-sharing, ticketless travel and the decreasing distinction between scheduled and non-scheduled flights.
I am glad to note that the Committee on Transport and Tourism shares the opinion put forward by the Commission since many of its amendments are largely supportive of our approach.
The Commission can also accept in principle, subject to some redrafting, Amendments Nos 3 and 8, first paragraph, since they clarify the fact that capacity restrictions might be imposed for completely legitimate safety reasons.
Amendments Nos 5 and 19 which extend application of the regulation to Community carriers returning from third countries are also acceptable in principle, as is Amendment No 6 since it precisely defines the airline's responsibility to identify passengers still in the queue at the time of closing the check-in.
Amendment No 13 is acceptable since it underlines the fact that even the handling agent would be considered as the air carrier for these purposes.
The Commission can also accept in part Amendment No 9 which establishes a better basis for improved customer information.
The third paragraph of Amendment No 8 is not acceptable because even though passengers may agree to accept a seat in a lower class, they are still being denied boarding in the class to which they are entitled according to their ticket.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
But in reality, tonight, we are debating how we can make European funding programmes intended to create jobs and prosperity effective in achieving these aims; how and why they are different, as European programmes, from regional support, which has already been adopted in the Member States; how there can be a genuine dialogue between local people in regions across Europe, which really does exchange best practice and which lifts quality for us all; and perhaps most of all, how the wheels of decision-making can be oiled to make the whole system as easy as possible at every level.
As the report makes clear, this first attempt at operating Structural Fund guidelines is right in principle, is well intentioned, but is one from which lessons have to be learnt: it was published four years late in Merseyside and elsewhere after the changes which these guidelines had been intended to affect had already been made; it was written in dense and obtuse text; it identified 27 different areas as priorities - far too many for serious consideration; and it was disseminated only via Member State governments and arguably, not even by them.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to say that I agree with the report by the rapporteur from the Committee on Regional Policy, Mr Howitt.
I therefore believe that this issue is a priority.
In the Amsterdam Treaty, those three topics were clearly linked to the other policies of the European Union.
Indeed, the OECD believes that, in the next few years, the number of jobs related to the environment will probably increase by 5.5 %.
We also call for transparency and participation and we must always take account of equal opportunities as well as those projects related to the environment; we desire a balance between job creation and the economic policies which tend to reduce it.
It is not the first time that regions such as my own - Asturias - receive Objective 1 funds, at times from other objectives and at times from certain Community initiatives; and yet, it is a region in decline where decisions are taken on economic policies which lead to reductions in employment.
The Funds must provide services for children and the elderly, in other words, consideration must be given to projects which might promote equal opportunities in terms of women's access to jobs in comparison to that of men.
In conclusion, Mr President, we need to increase the budget in the field of the environment - Objective 2 only dedicates 5.2 % - and the participation of local and regional authorities in those projects concerning the environment, because it is essential that they ensure that environmental principles are not violated.
Concealed behind this argument - as we are all aware - is the problem of this Commission proposal, the 10 % reserve.
If - as is currently envisaged and as we in this House would also wish - in the future Member States really are to be given greater leeway in the national implementation of European programming, then these guidelines must neither be too detailed, nor too numerous.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Structural Funds have been a very important chapter of Community policy and have without doubt achieved substantial results for the recovery of certain regions suffering from depression due to historical and traditional factors.
The guidelines are undoubtedly positive but must also take into account these requirements.
Mr President, the Commission's goal to promote a pan-European regional policy by means of common guidelines is obviously a very worthy one.
The Commission must set down primary goals clearly in one document.
The guidelines are basically nothing more than a paper tiger.
That is responsibility enough to make us develop them into a central instrument here.
First of all, I would like to point out that this Structural Funds system is an original and practical device and this is due to a number of reasons: its classification into objective areas which takes account of regional differences; the sometimes exemplary way in which Structural Funds have served regional policies, because these Structural Funds have in fact structured; the infrastructures which have made areas less isolated; the aid and support for economic activities, particularly in rural areas, and primarily in the area of agricultural diversification; and the aid to training and retraining which have very much supported employment.
The way it was conceived is interesting: the consultation procedure is based on regional development plans and the "docups' , the single programming documents, the length and periodicity of which have now been established and are well broken in.
It is altogether logical and even reassuring that the Commission is concerned, at this level of intervention, that the European Union should not lose its ability to influence the guidelines relating to regional policies and the use of Structural Funds.
This obviously raises the question of the legitimacy to which I referred earlier regarding the legal basis, but also the question of the participation and active contribution of the European Parliament - which is, incidentally, a political authority - and, therefore, its contribution to the establishment of these guidelines.
Mr President, in welcoming the report, may I congratulate the rapporteur on his work and efforts to consult as widely as possible in order to ascertain in general terms how the structural fund guidelines operate?
If there are too many guidelines, the problem should be addressed without obliging Member States to accept what might prove to be counter-productive uniformity.
The resolution recognizes that, although the guidelines provide a means of setting out priorities for the Union as a whole, local circumstances also need to be taken into account in deciding on adjustments to programmes, and the guidelines confirm that view.
Similarly, we would fully endorse the resolution's suggestion that the guidelines should be seen as a mechanism for the exchange of best practice between all partners at regional, national and European level, and that is an aspect that might be usefully reinforced in future Commission guidelines for the next programming period.
Indeed, the guidelines were a response to a request from the Member States themselves that the Commission should formulate policy orientations, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to facilitate the adjustment exercise at the mid-point of the programmes.
Therefore, the guidelines do not have either the sinister intention or the sinister effect that some have feared or claimed.
Indeed, it was stressed in particular that any changes in the current Objective 1 and 6 programmes should aim to increase job creation.
Whilst actions in the field of equal opportunities may have been financed more often than not under the European Social Fund, the Commission agrees with the rapporteur that such horizontal aspects should be given consideration in all areas financed by the funds.
The same goes, for example, for the environment and sustainable development.
Many of the remaining points of the resolution refer not to the guidelines for adjusting the current programmes but to the Commission's proposals for future guidelines under Article 9(4) of its proposed general regulation for the Structural Funds after 1999.
As the rapporteur stated in his report, it is not his intention in this exercise to pre-empt discussions of the reform taking place elsewhere.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Rather, I wish to underline the fact that the Commission's communication represents the preparations for and part of a whole series of legal initiatives, some of which it is in the process of preparing, others of which have already been drawn up, and all of which are directed towards the use of new technologies to develop the single market, in particular in the area of the free movement of goods, services and capital.
I am pleased that the committees which have been involved in the consultation process are voting in the same way.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the communication from the Commission which is now before us is an important step in strengthening the trust of citizens and businesses in making electronic transactions.
First of all, the PPE Group welcomes the decision of the European Commission to make a clear distinction between electronic signatures and encryption, and to clearly decouple these from each other.
The PPE Group applauds this because the heated discussion surrounding access regulations for encryption keys will undoubtedly slow down legislation regarding electronic trade, even though we in Europe must actually increase our pace to keep up with the United States.
This does not take away from the fact that the standpoint of the PPE Group regarding the introduction of legal access regulations for encryption is very clear.
The question of whether you, for reasons of security, must establish central registration of keys has been answered by the PPE Group with a firm no.
I am happy that the government of the United States has also come to this conclusion.
It is of vital importance to win the trust of citizens and companies in making electronic transactions by means of a complete agreement regarding liability.
We are, I think, agreed that electronic means of communication are developing at such lightning speed that we too must act very quickly in setting up the legal framework for this new type of communication.
However, electronic commerce reaches far beyond the Union, in fact it is already boundless.
These questions are of vital importance both for the consumer and in terms of guaranteeing public trust in this method of communication.
In any support for a joint policy and the development of electronic commerce in general, however, there will be certain problems which will have to be examined in detail and for which there are various possible solutions.
However, I believe that we will be able to solve this problem soon, thereby creating a great potential for new jobs in Europe and for support of the economy.
As Mr van Velzen has already noted, it is in my view important to make a clear distinction between authentication services and confidentiality services.
The benefit reaped will be a gain in productivity in terms of quantity and quality, especially in processes outside businesses.
In my opinion, the transformation brought about by electronic commerce contains the germ of revolution, and I wonder whether we should not also move beyond the tradition of defining the law through rules and regulations and favour legislation comprising principles and procedures that are therefore more flexible, evolutive and acceptable at global level.
I believe that Commissioner Bangemann's initiative for the globalization of the information society and international cooperation, sometimes defined as an initiative for a map of the Internet, moves in this direction.
The Ullmann report thrusts us into the centre of the information society and some of its setbacks which we, as Members of the European Parliament, must learn to master.
Mr President, each day every European citizen becomes more aware that electronic commerce is the commerce of the future.
Solving the associated problems in the field of legal security will be a determining factor in the acceptance of electronic communication by the citizens, but it will also be a precondition for the equality of legal status of digital and conventional signatures.
The rapporteur has given us a comprehensive account of these problems and pointed us in the right direction.
The aim of the communication was to stress the importance of the free availability of cryptographic products and services for consumers and the European industry.
Within the EU there are several Member States that have engaged in activities in this area and it is undoubtedly the case that if you had divergent legal and technical approaches, that could constitute a serious obstacle to the free circulation of goods and services within the internal market.
The aim is to create a harmonised and appropriate legal framework to facilitate the use of electronic signatures within the Community.
The proposal is in line with the requirements laid down in the report of the European Parliament.
A variety of authentication mechanisms is expected to develop and the scope of the directive has to be broad enough to cover the whole spectrum of electronic signatures including digital signatures.
In all these aspects the proposal is in line with what is suggested by the report of the European Parliament.
Turning to the question of confidentiality services, here we are talking about the amendment of the dual-use regulation, and that proposal for a Council regulation was adopted by the Commission on 15 May.
I hope we will get the same support for the proposal for a directive and, given the importance of initiative in terms of its impact on growth and employment, I hope Parliament will quickly endorse the proposal.
The debate is closed.
