Address by the President Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I should like to convey my heartfelt thanks for the trust you showed in me by electing me President of the European Parliament yesterday.
To remain faithful to my convictions and to the group which nominated me as President, but also to take up the task with rectitude and impartiality, whilst respecting our political or national differences, is how I see my role and its moral code.
The conditions under which the election was held marked a step forward in the democratic workings of the European Parliament.
As I said yesterday, I am grateful to Parliament for taking into account another aspect of this democratic equilibrium.
Today, the figure is nearly 30 %.
Applause Since Simone Veil, who was the first President of the new Parliament elected by direct universal suffrage in 1979, the efforts made over the last 20 years to achieve fairer representation have resulted in the election which has just taken place.
I am aware of the daunting task which awaits us during the two and a half years of my Presidency.
Our first duty, as I see it today, will be to demand full recognition of the new responsibilities which the Amsterdam Treaty has assigned to the European Parliament and which must, without delay or hesitation on the part of the other institutions, be translated into deeds.
Applause A new era is beginning on the threshold of this parliamentary term - the European Parliament is now a parliament in the true sense of the word.
Since the Treaty of Maastricht, our prerogatives and influence have continued to grow.
I pay tribute to all the colleagues who took part.
It is to a great extent thanks to their diplomacy and moral authority that the Treaties of Maastricht and Amsterdam introduced the new powers for Parliament which we today are able to implement.
I am well aware that this procedure is a very delicate mechanism.
On the contrary, we want a strong and creative Commission capable of tackling the great challenges which we have to face together.
Our Assembly will therefore need to use all its influence to enhance the Union's institutional equilibrium, and this in several directions.
The European Parliament must be totally involved in the preparatory work of the Intergovernmental Conference on the reform of the European institutions.
The citizens who have given us our mandate would find it incomprehensible if the European Parliament were to play only a minor role in a reform as sweeping and necessary as that which is to be undertaken.
Parliament must also be closely involved in the negotiations leading up to Union enlargement, which remains the priority of priorities in the coming years.
And it must exercise greater influence over the major budgetary decisions and the defining of the relevant priorities, within the parameters of the Agenda 2000 guidelines.
The problem is not to oppose the progress of biotechnology, but to make sure that the demands of public health prevail.
Today this clarification is essential in a political environment which has changed a great deal since the Treaty of Amsterdam at last accepted it in principle.
This positive image derives not only from the expectation that the European Parliament will provide support in terms of financial aid to development projects or the conclusion of economic agreements with the Union.
Thus, for all those peoples who throughout the world are afflicted by dictatorship, civil war or underdevelopment, Europe represents an immense source of hope for peace, freedom and progress.
A new Europe was born in Pristina, and that Europe has seen the light of day on the threshold of a new century.
The European Parliament will play a full role in the reconstruction of Kosovo and stabilisation of the Balkans.
You said you prized interinstitutional co-operation highly.
Madam President, I can assure you here and now, and I shall say it again this evening when, in this same Chamber I officially present the programme that Finland intends to adopt while it holds the presidency, that our goal is a closer system of co-operation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Applause I thank the President-in-Office of the Council.
Madam President, I will be very brief.
We are convinced that, under your authority, the next Commission will be capable of re-establishing that trust which has always been a fundamental asset as far as European integration is concerned.
May I reiterate, Mrs Fontaine, my warm congratulations on behalf of the Commission.
I believe there is still an enormous amount to do to improve the efficient functioning of this Parliament building.
However, I have learnt from an extremely well-informed source that a kind of preliminary draft report is already in circulation in this House, between the Committee of Wise Men, the services of the European Parliament and the services of the European Commission.
I know it probably is not possible for it to go to all 626 Members, but would it not then be sensible, if such a report exists and if you can confirm this, for this preliminary draft report to be given to the President and the bureau of the Committee on Budgetary Control for example, and to the co-ordinators of all the groups that are represented in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Furthermore, since I have the floor, Madam President, I would like to add that it is not appropriate to open a debate, based on rumours, on a subject which we will have to consider in turn on the agenda, for which I believe amendments have been tabled, and on which the political groups are still to give their opinion.
Applause Madam President, I would simply like to react to the intervention of Mr Barón Crespo.
I therefore think that the two things are different.
It does not seem to me - and there are witnesses - that any objection was expressed at that time.
Thank you, Mr Dell'Alba.
Madam President, I know you, like me, will share the concern that this week offers no opportunity to express our interest at what is occurring in Burma and, in particular, the sacrifice and suffering of Aung San Suu Kyi who is our Sakharov Prize winner.
There has been a troika visit to Burma.
Mr Poettering, what is the difference between a Christian Democrat and a European Democrat?
Madam President, may I say that I fully endorse your speech earlier in which you said that one of our jobs is to provide the public with information about the work of the institutions.
We will happily forward your question to the Commission.
European Council of 3 and 4 June/ German Presidency The next item on the agenda is a joint debate on the report of the European Council and the declaration of the Commission on the Cologne European Council meeting of 3 and 4 June, -the declaration of the Council concerning the six months of the German Presidency.
Today, six months on, we can see that the progress made in these three main areas relating to integration has fulfilled our expectations.
The resignation of the Commission, the outbreak of war in Kosovo and the European Council in Berlin all coincided, putting the EU's power to act to the test in a dramatic way at a particularly critical moment in time.
The reason for this is that the war in Kosovo served to highlight again that the essence of European integration is to establish a lasting framework for peace on our continent.
The step forward we have taken in the course of the last few months is above all a success shared by all Member States and European Union institutions.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to take a few moments to sum up the main events of the German Presidency and then look at the prospects for the future.
Firstly, there has been an increase in the ability of the EU to act in matters of foreign and security policy.
The contribution they made towards bringing the Kosovo conflict to a peaceful conclusion has enabled the civil might of the EU to take a major step in the direction of a common foreign policy.
Unlike 1991/92, the EU pursued a common line in the Balkans this time, which can be explained by the fact that the European States had at last recognised that it was not just about moral duty or the future of a region on the periphery of Europe, but about their own security, indeed our collective security.
Firstly, South-Eastern Europe is now widely and unreservedly accepted as being part of Europe.
Secondly, the Berlin decisions on Agenda 2000 have secured the European Union the power to act for the next few years.
Agenda 2000 contained a sheaf of reform initiatives and huge national interests of a kind unknown hitherto in the history of European integration.
The fact that it proved possible to reconcile these issues in one great compromise was because major Member States, not least of which Germany, refrained from pushing to achieve the most they could for their own countries, come what may, and instead made the further development of Europe a priority.
Thirdly, Agenda 2000 will also foster opportunities for the enlargement of the European Union.
Moreover, when we decided in Cologne to have a new Intergovernmental Conference on institutional affairs, we seized the opportunity that will enable us to soon overcome the second large internal hurdle facing the enlargement process.
I regard this as the beginning of a process that will lead to more a pronounced democratisation of the Union.
The nomination of Romano Prodi as the new President of the Commission was a very rapid reaction on the part of the EU States to the resignation of the Commission.
Germany's proposal to designate Turkey an Applicant State and to assess it in accordance with the same Copenhagen Criteria as applied to the other candidates, did not meet with agreement in Cologne, but this issue remains on the agenda.
It is important that Turkey should draw up a timetable for implementing the Copenhagen Criteria.
My second point is that if an enlarged Union is to retain its ability to negotiate then it is essential that the three institutional questions that remained open in Amsterdam, namely the size and composition of the Commission, vote weighting in the Council, and extending majority voting, are clarified in good time and comprehensively before enlargement takes place.
We should therefore make every available effort to adhere to the timetable for institutional reform agreed on in Cologne and to complete the package of reforms in the year 2000 under the French Presidency.
Reconstruction in Kosovo and the EU's central role in giving impetus to the Stability Pact mean that it carries more responsibility, also in material terms.
Equally though, in the long-term this represents a major and exceptional opportunity for the Union and its national economies which we should embrace with determination.
Economic co-operation will be a decisive factor in the stabilisation of South-Eastern Europe.
Germany supports additional proposals for creating a regional Trade and Customs Union with the aim of forming a free-trade zone which ought, if possible, to be linked with the European Union.
The key to the lasting stabilisation of the region will be the democratisation of Serbia.
Nevertheless, as far as the European Union and its Member States are concerned, we must do everything to strengthen democracy in Serbia and weaken Milosevic.
The Cologne decisions on the creation of a European Security and Defence Union have far-reaching implications.
Consequently, the development of common options for action and the creation of the infrastructure necessary to achieve this will, in time, be the very first item on Europe's agenda for the future.
This Committee should present its report to the European Council under the French Presidency.
I hope that the European Parliament will play a leading role in this process, building on the preparatory work that has already been underway in the Parliament for some time.
The democratic imperative has become evident from the conflict surrounding the resignation of the Commission, during which the fundamental issues of transparency, democratic control and the legitimacy of European dealings have been raised.
The two crises experienced over the last six months will have a long-lasting effect on the progress of European integration.
Loud Applause Madam President, I am also going to be very brief this time for reasons which I am sure you will understand perfectly.
I refer, of course, to the approval of Agenda 2000, which was an enormously difficult exercise in terms of politics, diplomacy and the balance of interests within the Union, and to all the consequences resulting from perhaps the greatest contemporary problem, given its repercussions within the European Union itself, by which I mean the Kosovo conflict and all the circumstances surrounding it as well as its resultant consequences for the future.
European security and defence have taken a step forward with the appointment of the person responsible for the CFSP.
Finally, the European Employment Pact has also been given a great boost - with the implementation of the conclusions of the European Council of Luxembourg.
The German Presidency had to contend with the tragic situation in Kosovo, and the Berlin Declaration left nothing to be desired in terms of clarity.
The German Council Presidency, together with the countries of the European Union of the Western Alliance took resolute action in order to oppose the Yugoslavian tyrant and dictator Milosevic.
Our message on the threshold of the year 2000 must be: never again are people in Europe to be driven from their homes, from their homeland.
That is why we want to say a word of thanks to our political friends in the CDU and CSU, and also to the Liberals, for showing such pronounced solidarity in their support of the Council Presidency.
It filled us with horror, and we are as critical of this as you are, that the chairman of the post-communist PDS shook hands with Milosevic in Belgrade.
Agenda 2000 was decided on in Berlin and it must now constitute the basis on which the first applicant countries will be able to join the European Union during this legislative period of the European Parliament, hence by 2004.
This will promote stability and safety, democracy and peace.
We welcome your endeavours towards a European Charter and we welcome your endeavours as regards a conference on the reform of the European Union.
At the heart of this reform process must lie the long overdue acceptance of the majority system in the Council of Ministers as the fundamental decision-making instrument for this Parliament.
For we want this to be a Union which has the power to act and which is rooted in the principles of democracy and the parliamentary system.
The Cologne Summit reached a decision on the Secretary-General, also known as the High Representative.
Furthermore, we must prevent those areas of foreign policy where a common line is already being pursued, from degenerating into mere co-operation between the States of the European Union.
Firstly there is the appointment of the new Commission.
The Treaty provides for the Members of the Commission to be nominated on the basis of agreement between the President-elect and the national governments.
The Chancellor's order to drop the Directive on end-of-life cars from the Council of Ministers sitting is something unknown and unheard of hitherto in the European Union, and the order given by the Chancellor that the German Minister of Trade and Commerce should not attend the Council of Ministers sitting in Finland is also without precedent in the recent history of the European Union.
Mr Foreign Minister, I am sure that none of this was intentional, but from Konrad Adenauer, through Willy Brandt and Helmut Schmidt to Helmut Kohl the strength of German politics always resided in the fact that Germany's partners trusted her.
I hope, Mr Foreign Minister, that you will be able to safeguard this trust in the constancy and reliability of German European policy in the future, for it is of importance to progress within the European Union and to the future of our European continent.
But the performance you give here, Mr Poettering, cannot, nor will it ever match the real-life drama facing our Foreign Minister.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union has passed the acid test during difficult times under your Presidency.
We don't just need a Pact to stabilise the euro but also one which will create employment in Europe.
For the first time in history, the European Union employed armed troops in Europe on a joint basis, showing remarkable resolve in the process.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we want you to show the governments of the Member States the same determination when it comes to promoting peace in the Balkans.
NATO won the war, the European Union must now win peace.
The Stability Pact for the Balkans is a just and necessary step but it is not yet a Balkans policy.
The creation of offices and agencies should not be the sum total of EU policy in the Balkans.
If you continue in this vein then very soon you will need an office to co-ordinate the co-ordinators, and that is not a Balkans policy.
My third point concerns the reform of the EU institutions.
It is certainly a good thing that you set the reform process in motion in Cologne, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have an answer to the questions you raised here regarding the future prospects for enlargement of the European Union and the shape of our European Union in institutional terms, and our answer to these questions is clear: we want major institutional reform to be undertaken prior to enlargement.
Lastly, a few words on the new Commission.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you spoke of the new Commission.
Nevertheless, again on the address from the other side of the House as regards the inauguration of the new Commission, we refuse, and on this matter I now speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats, to make the procedure and timetable of Parliament dependent on the presentation of a report by a non-parliamentary group or a non-parliamentary committee.
You may well bring this about if you have the support of the majority, Mr Poettering, but then you will also have to explain to the public why a Commission that resigned in March is still in office six months after its resignation.
The Presidency claims to have created the financial framework for enlargement to the east.
That will lead to problems in transatlantic relations and to further delay in the integration of Central and Eastern European applicant countries into the European Union.
But the most important progress has been in the area of citizens' rights.
It was a brave decision of the German Presidency to table and to advance the idea of a charter of fundamental rights.
Your pluralistic approach, your attempt to involve the European Parliament and national parliaments can only add to the likelihood of success.
We as a Parliament, Mr President-in-Office, look forward to working with the Council and the Commission in securing the anchoring of fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms for the citizen in European law.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed Foreign Minister, it would be politically short-sighted if a representative of the Greens were to praise the German Presidency with no ifs or buts.
Unfortunately, the Council has failed to speed the progress of the institutional decisions with the same determination, but we wish to extend our particular thanks to Foreign Minister Fischer for his important initiatives, for his important work, in precisely this area.
The decision to undertake military intervention, in order to oppose a policy of racism, nationalism and ethnic expulsions in a 21st Century Europe, met, as you know, with a variety of reactions in the Green Party.
The German Presidency played its part in strengthening this Europe of common interests.
However, the European Parliament also has its part to play now and must carry on the work in precisely this area, which involves strengthening the EU institutions and consolidating the democratic structures of Europe.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to begin with, allow me to address a few words to my colleague, Mr Poettering.
Unification of Germany took place almost nine years ago, and it would please me greatly if, after such a long time, you could at last bring yourself to respect the fact that there is a Democratic-Socialist Left in Germany which is now also represented in the European Parliament.
Not even the nomination of Romano Prodi as President of the Commission was able to camouflage the poor results produced by this Summit.
The German EU Presidency took no action to at least put a brake on the euro's continued decline in value on foreign exchange markets.
The crisis facing the European Single Currency was not even on the agenda in Cologne.
Not a single decision was taken on the taxation of international speculative movements of capital or the fight against tax dumping and tax havens within the Union.
Our group is as emphatic in its appreciation of the Cologne Summit Decision, which it intends to actively support, so as to further strengthen the fundamental rights of the citizens in the future, as it is resolute in its criticism of the Employment Pact.
Binding and verifiable, quantitative goals must at last be agreed for economic growth and the fight against unemployment.
During the German Presidency, the NATO war in the Balkans, which transgressed international law and dispensed with the authority of the UN, was actively supported by the European Union and its Member States, and at the same time the Community's conversion to a so-called defence union was sealed.
Another apparent sign of the increasing disinterest of the Europeans in European construction is the lack of interest in the euro, barely six months after its launch.
It seems to me - and this is the second lesson to be drawn from the European elections - that an increasing euroscepticism amongst voters in numerous countries has been demonstrated, particularly in the United Kingdom and France, and I believe that by voting for the opposition parties in the large European countries, it is the Europe in which their governments participate that the citizens wanted to reject.
This legitimacy can only stem from a Europe which has been 'reforged' on the basis of national democracies rather than trying to create a virtual Europe which is ever more distant from the concerns of its citizens.
To return to the Cologne Summit and the consequences of the German Presidency, I will make three points.
The recent developments that we have seen with regard to the WTO, the way in which the new negotiations will be carried out and, particularly, the appointment of the Director General preferred by the Americans for the first round of the WTO, are very bad omens with regard to European interests.
It seems to me that this Europe, which was born of the idea of the Common Market, has become a Single Market and will end up as nothing more than a part of a great global market.
That will effectively mean the defeat of the Treaty of Rome project.
Furthermore, the appointment of the Secretary General of NATO as a representative of the European Common Foreign and Security Policy, appears to complete the picture, and brings to mind that phrase of a French diplomat who said that it is illusory to try to develop a European defence policy while building the European Central Bank in Fort Knox.
It is very important - for our group at least - that, in the course of the coming institutional reforms, a far greater importance is afforded to national democracies and national parliaments, instead of allowing Europe to sink deeper and distance itself even further from the citizens by creating the kind of democracy that I have described as virtual.
Firstly, the negotiations for Agenda 2000 produced an agreement that was only a watered-down version of the original ambitious proposals placed on the table by Germany.
Chancellor Schröder also deserves praise for his work in this area, although of course the work of the United States and President Ahtisaari of Finland should not be forgotten.
The German Presidency was established within the context of the British leadership and the creation of the single currency.
Without a concerted economic policy aimed at development it will be difficult to fight unemployment or create conditions adequate to stop the fall of the euro.
The Council Presidency's track record is questionable, and it is in fact only the Council Presidency itself which disputes this.
Let us have a look at the outcome of Agenda 2000 for example.
The single currency, Minister Fischer, which you have rightly claimed to be one of Europe's great achievements, obviously wasn't even important enough in the eyes of the Finance Minister, who had responsibility for this matter at the time, for him to attend the first important session.
The situation in the Western Balkans clearly shows that Europe needs a more effective course of action to ensure stability in this continent.
It is important during the Finnish presidential term to get a clear indication of just how determined the EU is to make headway in the enlargement process.
The German Presidency, and now the Finnish Presidency, which has just begun, have been overshadowed by an administrative crisis which culminated in the resignation of the Commission.
We all certainly hope the crisis is a prelude to a genuine series of reforms in respect of the way things are done, not only in the Commission, but in the Council and in Parliament also.
However, we have to remember that no headway can be made without a new Commission which is functioning successfully.
Obviously, Parliament must make full use of its consultative and monitoring rights in respect of the institutions, including the Commission, but it also has to be aware of its responsibility in this important situation to ensure that the new Commission may begin its work as soon as possible.
The citizens of the European Union, our own citizens, who were disturbingly passive in the European parliamentary elections, hope, above all, that the Union will improve the situation regarding employment.
A healthy rate of employment is also essential for the equitable development of our societies.
It is also important to pay close attention to ensuring that the economic policies of the EU Member States are compatible, and to developing courses of action in order to bring this about.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the German Presidency has had to assert itself within a particularly dramatic context.
The first six months of this year have demonstrated, once more, the need for European integration on the one hand and the need to continue the process of enlargement on the other.
With regard to the latter, the war in Kosovo reminds us of the wisdom of the Copenhagen criteria which stipulate, amongst other things, respect for human rights on the part of all applicant countries as a precondition for their accession to the European Union.
The Cologne European Council, which unquestionably confirmed this double ambition, shows us the enormity of the task still to be undertaken and the additional efforts which are required in this area.
The European Council meeting in Cologne, despite all the efforts of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council - to which I would like to pay particular tribute - still nevertheless raises some major questions.
The first relates to point 53 of the conclusions of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, and I would like to ask the German Foreign minister how we should interpret the mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference and particularly - and I quote - the possible use of qualified majority voting in the Council - end of quote - in view of the declaration of Belgium, France and Italy, annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I would like to ask you whether these three Member States who, in Amsterdam, made the reinforcement of the institutions an essential condition, and therefore a prerequisite, for the conclusion of preliminary accession negotiations, still maintain the reservations annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, or whether they have moderated their position in the meantime.
My second question concerns the common security policy, particularly with regard to defence.
In my opinion, any European Union defence policy will overlook the basic problem for as long as the Member States do not accept the indivisible nature of security in the territory of the European Union.
We envisage an important role for the EU as a non-violent civilian peace maker.
Mr President, with the passage of time, I believe that it will be seen that the German Presidency has had some successes.
With the approval of Agenda 2000, I believe we have produced an agreement between those people whose unfair and selfish motto is 'I want my money back' and all those who, led by the government of my country, believe that the European Union is a political project with cohesion and solidarity as its cornerstones.
And this new stability plan for the Balkans seems to me to be a positive thing.
I refer to the reform of institutions.
Mr Fischer, if there is one thing which all this morning's speakers have agreed upon, it is the fact that the Cologne Summit does not form a basis for the reform of the Union's institutions.
The proposal of the German Presidency in Cologne, that is, to change the number of Commissioners, reconsider votes, perhaps to move in some areas from a unanimous vote to a qualified majority vote, is quite clearly insufficient.
If you believe that there will be enlargement to more than 21 Members, profound institutional reform is required.
And not only I myself, on behalf of my group, but also all the other groups in this Parliament, say that this will only achieve one thing: it will obstruct the European Union.
I therefore believe, Mr Fischer, that we in this Parliament are bored of so much verbiage.
We have a resolution dated 19 November 1997 in which we propose a method for the reform of the institutions.
Well, we will meet again in this Parliament, Mr Fischer, and you will see that this Parliament will be unanimous in its rejection of any reform which does not guarantee the effectiveness of the Union and guarantee that it really serves the interests of the citizens.
Therefore, we must now support all the forces in Serbia and Yugoslavia which are striving for a new political system, which are standing up for democracy, for human rights, for respect for minorities.
That is why the money for this must quickly be made available, and the appropriate organisation must be established, so that the largest part of our work does not go on ensuring that there is co-ordination between one organisation and another, but is devoted to giving substantial help to the Balkans, so that the Balkans will finally become a peaceful region in Europe.
Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on what has been said here before I leave on a trip to Turkey.
On criticism of the institutional reforms; we tried to make progress with the institutional reforms, and when I made my maiden speech as Germany took over the Council Presidency, it was still not at all clear whether we would actually receive support for an Intergovernmental Conference.
This would mean that in the areas of security and foreign policy, Europe would not be in a position to determine its own fate, that is, to follow its own path.
During the war in Kosovo, I experienced just how much weight Europe can bring to bear in terms of possibilities for shaping situation by political means, and in terms of possibilities for pursuing a preventative foreign policy, a preventative peace policy, and for resolving a conflict when the conflict has worsened.
I can only say that Europe must come together, also in terms of its security and foreign policy, otherwise decisions will be taken elsewhere.
Since 1992, we have tried everything in order to convince Milosevic to abandon this policy.
The UN is stronger today as a result of this conflict, and this is one of the effects of Europe's role during this conflict.
It is our duty to complete the process of European integration, and this means peace, security and democracy for everyone on this continent.
I have a message for all those who speak in favour of a preventative peace policy, and there is a broad consensus in the national parliaments as well as in the European Parliament, in spite of all the things Dayton failed to deliver, and that is not a criticism of Dayton as presumably it couldn't have been any other way at the time, and that message is that a strategy which will be effective in the long-term for bringing South-Eastern Europe up to the level of an integrated Europe and then bringing it into an integrated Europe, has now become a functioning policy.
So I appeal to all of you who have spoken here in favour of a preventative peace policy, to fight for the long-term success of the Stability Pact, because that would indeed be drawing the right conclusions from the war in Kosovo, the Yugoslavian wars of succession.
The grandiose announcement of a new Employment Pact turned out in reality to be a castle in the air.
Secondly, the language and style adopted by the German Government over the last six months have at times caused me to feel ashamed in the European Parliament.
Applause Mr President, the Berlin Agreement has enabled the European Union's main issues to be opened up, but it has not done anything to secure the future of the European Union in the long or even medium-term, because the Agenda 2000 Agreement went far beyond what was necessary.
I say this because in the first place, it has been unable to achieve any reform of countries' own resources, which should be based solely on the Gross National Product, the only fair, equitable and transparent basis for contribution.
Thirdly, this Agenda 2000 runs the risk of leading us towards a Europe which is less evenly-balanced and less united.
Firstly, all the studies have shown that the Portuguese economy is the one which will be most affected by competition from the new Member States from Eastern Europe, but nothing has been done to support Portugal in this area.
It is no castle in the air, but a long overdue, concrete attempt to go beyond employment guidelines and achieve co-ordination of economic policy within the European Union, particularly with a view to promoting growth.
We need structural reform in the European Economic and Monetary Union, in the European Union.
We urgently need there to be inter-institutional agreement between the Council, Commission and European Parliament on the essential features of economic policy.
The President cut the speaker off Mr President, I believe that overall the German Presidency was a very positive period.
We believe that we have a fair and just deal for Member States.
In particular I would like to thank the Germans for not only pushing ahead for progress in peace concerning Kosovo, but peace on the issues concerning Northern Ireland.
Mr President, you have had a declaration distributed to us and a trial vote has subsequently taken place.
The name of the candidate selected is visible and is also emphasised by the asterisk.
Of course, when you fill in a piece of paper, someone can look over your shoulder and see where you put your cross.
However, we can vote on whether to have a written vote instead.
In the last two addresses I gave before the European Parliament, in April and May, I promised to inaugurate a new era of change within the Commission.
The new College of Commissioners which I am going to introduce to you today is the team which will implement these changes.
Therefore, throughout its term of office, the Commission will promote equality of opportunities between the sexes in all sectors.
The Commission is a College and the Commissioners are neither delegates from political groups nor representatives of their national governments.
Each Commissioner will, at all times, discharge his duties in such a way as to reflect the interest of Europe as a whole.
Obviously, this is not a step to be taken lightly, but the existence of these agreements is a transparent guarantee of the sense of responsibility of each individual Commissioner.
I will now move on to the other main subject of my address today: the reform of the Commission.
The Commission has many strong points, including committed, experienced personnel and a great capacity for innovation and foresight.
However, I would like to touch briefly on two issues which are especially important in the new Commission: Kosovo and the next Intergovernmental Conference.
Let us first take the situation in Kosovo and the Balkans.
It is now a question of focusing our energy on the really important tasks: rebuilding houses left without roofs, putting back together shattered communities, and, even more importantly, providing the Balkans with a clear political and economic future, which will put an end to all the centuries of continual conflict.
Only the European Union can do this.
I am sure that the best way of pursuing such a goal is the method already successfully employed by the Community in the past: firstly, to ask the various parties to co-operate with each other, to start to work together on issues of everyday relevance, to establish customs unions, to set up common institutions and to consolidate peace through common interests.
To this end, I intend to build a small, high level working party - and I do hope that it will be of a high level - which, during the next three months, will prepare a report on the subjects to be covered at the Intergovernmental Conference.
The report will contribute to the preparation of the official position of the new Commission on the Intergovernmental Conference.
Even though much of the political demand of the European Union is currently opposed to a clear refusal on this matter, I will not be shaken in my resolve to present, at least in an official way, the possible options.
Applause In my opinion, it would be an error of mammoth proportions to organise an Intergovernmental Conference in Helsinki which is too limited, simply because of the collective fear of confronting the real challenges of future enlargement head on.
We will naturally see to it that the European Parliament plays a greater role in the work carried out in Helsinki.
As I speak, the whole of the European public is watching us, and is waiting with bated breath to see what is about to happen in the great history of the Commission and the Parliament.
The Commission and this Parliament are the only two institutions whose leaning is exclusively and genuinely towards Europe.
The task we face is that of restoring deep, mutual confidence between the two institutions, which has traditionally been the driving force of European integration.
I hope that the new College which you see before you today will receive your full support in September.
I am confident that you will use the great powers and responsibilities conferred on you by the Treaties wisely and in the best interests of the Union.
Applause Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that a debate of this kind has taken place in this form.
Today's debate is part of a longer process and the Hearings, which are to start on 30 August and run throughout the first week of September, also form part of this process.
All those who say that they endorse the Commission or say 'No' to it today, be they within or outside this Parliament, are disregarding Parliament, because the Hearings are an important part of the whole process, at the end of which we will be free to reach a decision on whether or not we will endorse the Commission.
I am bound to inform you that the preceding Council Presidency under the Federal Republic of Germany certainly did not speak in terms of a process in which you as President-designate of the European Commission were involved.
I speak on behalf of my group when I say that the Hearings are conducted on a fair basis and without any form of personal discrimination.
Mr President, I support your contention that we the European Parliament and the Commission have equal responsibility for this European Union.
The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties and you used the term 'government' , a term I personally very much approve of, because it implies that this government must also bear parliamentary responsibility and be accountable to Parliament.
Loud applause Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome Mr Prodi and thank him for his speech and also to welcome the candidates for the Commission.
Applause Madam President, I hope we are capable of overcoming this first great crisis which is currently facing us in the European Union.
Mr Prodi, you have spoken of the Commission as the government of Europe.
We cannot subordinate the work which must be done by the Commission - and I say this, Madam President, with all respect for what you have demonstrated this morning - to this report by the Committee of Experts.
We must show political judgment and responsibility in order to understand what we can ask of the new Commission and in order to await and support the reform process proposed by President Prodi.
Questions should be asked of the Commissioners - first in writing and then orally - in order to discover whether they are in a position to fulfil their responsibilities and also to identify their political criteria with regard to Europe.
Applause Secondly, Mr President Prodi, we have listened attentively to what you have said in relation to the individual responsibility of the Commissioners.
With regard to the European Union reform process - which is absolutely necessary, not only in terms of enlargement but also in terms of making the Union more democratic and efficient - Madam President, I believe that we cannot have another Intergovernmental Conference behind closed doors.
Applause How can we explain that we have the euro - a common currency which is not common to all - but at the same time we are implementing reforms which not even we are able to comprehend or justify.
Therefore, Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, we do not participate in the threats made by some political groups in this Parliament, who want to take the Commission, which presents itself to our scrutiny, hostage.
For some people, the principal objective is not to achieve institutional equilibrium but to undermine it and destroy it.
Madam President, may I conclude my intervention - if President Prodi will allow me - with a quote in my own language, written by an immortal Italian, by Manzoni, who says in I promessi sposi : 'Adelante, Romano, con juicio ' ( "Go ahead, Romano, wisely' ).
Firstly, the ELDR Group in this House comes here in terms of a European vocation.
We will not judge Commissioners on the basis of the national preferences of one or other party or group inside this Chamber.
Applause My group's essential and fundamental starting point in this debate is very clear.
The outgoing Commission resigned last March and since I can hardly explain to myself why the rump part of that Commission is still there, how can we expect the citizens of Europe to understand that fact?
It is therefore our overwhelming duty in this House to decouple Europe from this institutional embarrassment at the earliest available date and the only means to do that is to take the available Commission - and I do not prejudge how the hearings may go - and do our utmost to make sure that it takes up office at the earliest available date.
We want to ask you about your willingness, your personal willingness, to accept that you are accountable and responsible to the public of Europe in whatever you do with your President and before this House and in clear and full public understanding that this is the public forum for European democracy to which you are accountable and have a public responsibility.
Our hearings also will be fair.
We have been so busy reconstituting ourselves we have not yet had the capacity to do our homework and our research, so if the hearings bring to light issues of substance and public concern about which we as yet know nothing, we in this House would have a duty to Europe to act and we will act - certainly, my group will.
We need a respectful dialogue between our institutions.
We do not claim the status of 'primus inter pares' but we expect and demand to be treated as an equal among equals in the European institutions.
Applause Madam President, in September we have the hearings and, as I said, I do not wish to anticipate how they should proceed, but my group's strong preference is that in September - subject always to the reservations that we must see what emerges - we should take a decision and rid ourselves of a sense of crisis.
The institution that you will be presiding over must achieve this trust.
We can only have trust in an institution if it is run rigorously and transparently.
Certain recent events, such as the war in Kosovo and the new crisis in the field of food safety which has occurred in Belgium, but which clearly has repercussions for the whole of Europe, are particularly significant, and I believe that the necessary responses to them - and you have said some interesting things in this respect - must be ambitious responses.
I believe that this is a major problem and when we talk of transparency we find ourselves faced with a significant problem.
I want to mention the relationships, which have sometimes been difficult, between the Commission and the Parliament.
It has often been said that there is a natural alliance between the Commission and the Parliament.
We await from you, Mr President, a change of attitude in this respect.
Applause In fact the World Trade Organisation, as it currently functions, plays an extremely arguable role in European politics.
In this respect, I could mention the decisions regarding the issue of bananas and that of hormones in cattle rearing.
Your Commission, Mr President, must express its view on this subject in a clear and rapid manner, at least before the negotiations start.
Transparency, Mr President, must not only be applied to management, including financial and administrative management, but also to political decisions.
We therefore expect ambitious initiatives from you and your team.
Applause Madam President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our group is set to assess the Commission on the basis of the tasks before us, the hearings and the presentation of the whole programme announced for September.
The President of the Commission has pointed out the need for a clear rapport between the composition of the Commission itself and its programme.
The President of the Commission has touched on some of the issues such as public health, doping in the sporting world and air traffic, to give a token semblance of adherence to the programme, but his attention seems rather to me to be focused on two other issues: the reconstruction of Kosovo and the Intergovernmental Conference in Helsinki.
However, we await what will be said in the hearings with great interest and especially in the September programme.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission Romano Prodi, I have just heard your intervention, and I must say that I am none the wiser: politically speaking, nobody knows for sure where you stand.
This ambiguity does nothing to bring clarity and credibility into the political debate in Europe.
The Commission's decisions have been nothing but political wheeling and dealing between big States and have no basis in any kind of scientific logic.
You see, Mr President, to my mind, the Commission is not a government, and here we have a difference of opinion: a government is what each of us has in his own State.
On 13 April last, you stated your desire for reform aimed at greater efficiency, absolute transparency and full responsibility.
It is a sign of a profound crisis of confidence.
Last January, Jacques Santer asked for the political trust of this Parliament, under threat of a vote of no confidence, stating that we should stop looking to the past.
We expect Commissioners to open dialogue with the elected representatives in the European Parliament as early as possible before decisions are taken, but above all we expect them to respect the principles of transparency and subsidiarity as well as our democracies and traditions.
I leave it to you and to this Parliament to assess to what extent you have complied, or been able to comply with this Parliamentary resolution.
What is currently lacking in Europe and our institutions is a fresh vision of the Europe of the beginning of the next millennium.
Applause from the left Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, President Prodi, the representatives of the Alleanza Nazionale have taken note of your declared intention to renew and revolutionise the Commission.
I know that we are politically opposed in our own country, but we are nevertheless united in our desire to build a Europe in which the peoples of the old continent are increasingly ready to place their trust.
This attitude must be mutual, and I hope that one effect will be to inspire the Commission of which you are President with greater respect for the work of Parliament, and therefore to greater diligence and to produce a higher quality of responses to questions than that of the recent past.
Applause Mr President-elect of the Commission, I would first like to reiterate the sense of esteem, respect and personal trust which some of us expressed when we voted for your investiture.
I do not want you to think, neither you nor your potential, possible or future colleagues - who can say - that concerns about you are dictated by national or partisan considerations.
As for partisan considerations, it is clear that your Commission must represent the great political forces of the European Union, and on a Parliamentary level we must continue to work with all the large groups - and that does not mean just two groups - according to a policy of co-operation necessary for the success of our legislative work.
What we are defending here - and what concerns us - are the rights of Parliament in relation to the European Council.
We hope that the Commission that you embody is fully representative of that difficult balance between the European Council and the European Parliament.
In conclusion, and I will finish here Mr President, we do not want to be, as if in a new version of Plato's myth, the shadows in a cave where the true life is the European Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Prodi, we expect from you not only fresh political determination in the Commission which you will be leading, but also a strong commitment to initiating a great period of reform and change in Europe.
I am sure that you and your team - and I would like to draw attention to the balance achieved in your team - are starting off in the most favourable conditions for the successful completion of this operation.
For us, therefore, to be Europeans means in this case to support all those forces which are fighting in Serbia at this time for a pluralist and democratic system.
Therefore, above all, we must focus our attention on the excessive burden of unemployment which is weighing heavily on our territories and on the whole of Europe.
Applause Madam President, Mr President-elect, I represent the EDD Group, a small group in this Parliament, but extremely democratic.
To get a democratic structure we have to change over the years so that Parliament is not the servant of the Commission but the Commission is the servant of the elected representatives of the electorate of Europe.
It would be better if the future of Europe was entrusted to elected representatives who can be dismissed from office at elections and not to nominated bureaucrats in the form of Commissioners.
As a native of the Po valley who is Italian only by passport, I am fortunately immune from the national Christian Democrat type of opportunism which brings Berlusconi together with Mastella and De Mita and sees in Prodi not the impartial President of the Commissioners uninfluenced by the States, but the lavish dispenser of favours to a wide and varied assortment of Southern Italian profiteers.
It is important that the Commission is offered the means to take on, with its new structure, its officials, whose spirit will no doubt have changed, is offered the means to take on its tasks and that it shows no hesitation in saying to the Parliament or the Council, 'you ask us to achieve these objectives, we ask you for the means' .
I was therefore very happy to hear you say that now you are going to return to what I would call the Delors method, which stimulated the 1985 Intergovernmental Conference in Luxembourg, leading to that wonderful reform of the Single Market.
Professor Prodi, the trust of the PPE Group in you is based on the civic spirit and the political orientation you have expressed: a policy of renewal for Europe, the ability to compete, liberalisation and free trade, co-operation and peace, an open and trustworthy administration and an EU which devotes itself to matters of common relevance in order to gain the trust of the citizens of the EU during the next century.
You wish to create a 'dream team' Good luck!
I believe you will need it, but most of all Europe will need it.
President Prodi, this is your third meeting with this Parliament, a Parliament which is greatly changed but which has an institutional continuity which we must all respect.
The second point concerns the objections and the debate which we will resume in September.
I think that the primary reason for the objections is to verify the compatibility between the selections that you have made in putting together the team which you introduced to us today, and the general themes which you have presented to this Parliament.
We fully support a strategy which is motivated by the conviction that it is essential to respect the Stability Pact, and we are in agreement with the idea that today the fundamental issue is to make Europe into a more competitive unit, in order that it can resume the path of development, and also in order to combat unemployment.
However, we also consider it necessary to emphasise the opportunity to highlight the reasons why there has been recent talk of an Employment Pact as well, and the need to devote great attention to the regional imbalances which still exist in Europe.
I believe, however, that notwithstanding the peculiarity of the constitutional nature of relations between the Commission and the Parliament, the concerns voiced regarding the political balance which exists in this Parliament but which is not reflected in the Commission are well founded.
The distrust between citizens and Commission, clearly caused by the inappropriate behaviour of individual Commissioners, is deeply entrenched.
I repeat, within the bounds of the Treaty of Amsterdam, I have taken full advantage of all the power conferred on me, and I believe that one improvement at the end of this mandate may be more advanced ways of forming the Commission.
I attach very great importance to this aspect of things, as I attach very great importance to the Wise Men's report, but I also believe that these inquiries must be made into the history of the Commissioners and their programmes, and must be carried out in great depth and with political serenity as, in my opinion, they cannot be the tool to regulate problems which occurred in the past.
I believe that this tool will not be used lightly, but with the sense, however, that the problem in question involves not only individual responsibility but also the efficiency and responsibility of the entire Commission team which must present itself to you as capable of governing for the next five years.
Please assess it in this way.
I believe that you have the right to reject the entire Commission and consider it inadequate for the great task of leading Europe in the next five year period and making its contribution to the great task before us.
Well then, I invite you to perform this task according to the vision of European common interest, and not in a context, although absolutely legitimate in politics, of individual interest.
This report does exert an influence, but we have to understand that the political responsibility of the future is our own.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to warmly congratulate all the newly elected members of the European Parliament.
As requested by yourselves, I shall deal in particular with the situation in the Western Balkans and the death sentence passed on the Kurdish leader Öçalan.
Firstly, however, a few words on developments in the Union in general.
The new Parliament has now started and the appointment of the new Commission is under way.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, which recently came into force, will provide us with a good basis for developing closer co-operation than has existed before between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
The Council is expected to provide political leadership to give real added value to the lives of our citizens.
I am very happy to see that the new Commission's policy corresponds word for word with the key aims of the Finnish Presidency.
The war that has raged in the Western Balkans has caused an inconceivable amount of human suffering and damage to property.
The European Union must be ready both politically and financially to invest in developing the Western Balkan region, so that democracy and stability can take root there.
Applause The Yugoslav government must implement Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, work in co-operation with the International Court of Justice, and progress towards establishing democracy.
Furthermore, we confirmed the decision taken by the Heads of Member States and Governments in the General Affairs Council to set up an agency responsible for the rebuilding of the region, and we decided to hold a South-Eastern Europe Stability Pact Summit in Sarajevo.
The European Union has the perfect opportunity to assist in stabilising the region in a coherent and determined fashion.
We are working in close co-operation with other countries and international organisations.
Gradually, the European Union will become a entirely pan-European Union.
Meeting the criteria will strengthen social and economic development in the applicant countries concerned, and this has also been observed in the applicant countries themselves.
The European Council in Helsinki intends to reach a decision, on the basis of a report by the Commission, to include new applicant countries in accession negotiations.
We cannot neglect Turkey in the enlargement process.
It is involved in the enlargement process, and a separate strategy has been created for it.
It is a common aim of the European Union to do away with capital punishment.
Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, and thus endorses the aim to abolish the death penalty.
The death penalty has not been carried out in the country since 1984.
Turkey has expressed its desire to join the European Union.
The information society offers new opportunities to citizens, to enterprises and to the administrative sector.
We can only create new employment opportunities if our economy is doing well.
I know that all these problems are important to this House, and that the European Parliament has carried out important work in promoting them.
My ideas are based on the principle that the Union can only succeed through close and open co-operation between its various agencies, and with the active support of the citizens of Europe.
The European Parliament will play a crucial role in the process.
Madam President, may you and all the members find the energy, perseverance and will you need as this session begins, and I would like to assure you that Finland, as holder of the Presidency, expects much from our mutual co-operation.
Applause Madam President, I would like to thank Finland's Foreign Minister, Ms Halonen, for her excellent account of the Finnish Presidency programme.
Emphasis on these goals can be seen very clearly in the Finnish Presidency programme.
The people's Europe must be built with the emphasis on the serious importance of transparency among the EU institutions and on the principle of subsidiarity.
The enormous challenges of the future, such as the economic changes associated with the single currency, the Union's enlargement to the east, and the prevention of international crime, require the support of more viable EU institutions than is the case today.
Tragedies such as the crisis in Kosovo, and, more generally, in the whole of the former Yugoslavia, show that the peace and stability afforded by European integration do not as yet extend very far beyond the Union's external borders.
The economic, social and political rebuilding of the Western Balkans must proceed at a brisk pace while Finland holds the Presidency.
Ensuring the single market functions effectively and strengthening the Union's internal security are the important keys to successful enlargement.
The reform of the Union's institutions is a crucial part of the Finnish presidential programme, as Ms Halonen mentioned in her speech.
That will be the start of our task to strengthen stability in the whole Balkan region.
The Finnish President, Martti Ahtisaari, made a sound contribution to the achievement of a solution for Kosovo, showing that a non-aligned state can also successfully represent the common view of the Union as a whole.
In this regard, I think that the Finnish agenda could have been more ambitious, in particular in light of the Kosovo crisis.
Foreign Minister, you said that the Kosovo crisis might prove to be a sort of turning point in EU common foreign and security policy.
Our group would like to remind everyone that the European Parliament this Spring approved a report recommending the establishment of non-military peacekeeping bodies for the European Union.
Our group would like to point out that, during its presidential term, Finland will have ample opportunity to lead Europe towards social and ecological union.
Nevertheless, she should show more credibility in her opposition to an EU common defence force.
We should not give in to the former Social Democrats and the Green pacifists, to Schröder, Fischer, Blair, D'Alema or Solana, who want more arms for Europe, and to expand NATO.
This year has seen the implementation of some very wide-ranging and aggressive policies which are all going to play a role in developing the economies within the fifteen Member States of the European Union.
The launch of the new euro currency will certainly help to reduce business costs for small and medium-sized enterprises as foreign exchange transactions in eleven countries become an event of the past.
The instability within the EU institutions and the war in Kosovo have certainly not encouraged a climate of investor confidence.
However, in recent times, the value of the euro currency has substantially increased as political and economic stability within the European landscape has re-emerged.
There are eleven participating countries within the new euro currency zone encompassing over 291 million people.
The Finnish Presidency of the EU, together with the Commission, should review progress that is being made on this important issue across the EU so that consumer concerns about the new euro currency are fully addressed.
The increased interdependence between the Member States and EMU demands the strengthening of economic co-ordination.
The ageing nature of our population, globalisation and technological advances present real challenges for European economic and social development.
Unemployment still remains at over 9 % within the European Union which is unacceptably high.
The Finnish Government is certainly laying a great emphasis on the need to promote the enlargement process to a greater extent.
The Finnish Presidency will direct preparations to convene an Intergovernmental Conference in accordance with the decisions taken at the recent Cologne European Council.
Enlargement of the Union is essential for the stability of Europe.
The Union itself must be prepared to take up the challenges posed by enlargement by improving its decision-making capacity and improving the functioning of its institutions.
In conclusion, as a result of the Cologne Summit of March of last year, it has been agreed that the EU budget will be worth over £506 billion during the seven-year period, i.e. 2000-2006.
The conclusion of the Agenda 2000 discussion has ensured that the European Union can move forward and discuss and implement new policy objectives and goals.
The Finnish Government has certainly started this process.
I would like first of all to thank Madam President-in-Office for her comments regarding the abolition of the death penalty.
I believe that, on the Finnish initiative, the European Union is preparing to implement other initiatives on an international level, and I am grateful for that.
They are Mr Kurti, the former leader of the student movement in Pristina, Professor Oti, and three thousand other people who have literally disappeared.
I would like to know whether, on the initiative of the Finnish Presidency, we may finally take determined action, with the support of the Red Cross and other international organisations, to oblige the war criminal Milosevic not to do what he has done so many times before: to use blackmail, to use these people who are now in his hands and about whom nothing is known, to once again oblige the European Union to drop the evidence.
Democracy, because power must lie with the publicly elected in our Member States and because the necessary common legislation must also be controlled democratically.
We do not want the EU to be a new state, but rather a practical collaboration on problems which we cannot solve individually.
The EU must be a help and not a hindrance.
We are in agreement on this point as well, reaching forward as we are to be part of the process of solidarity between nations through a common foreign and security policy for which my group has fought right from the start of its representation in the European Parliament.
Honoured President, esteemed Representative of the Council Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, it is inappropriate that the Representative for the acting Commission should make a full statement on the Finnish Presidency's programme here, for this programme will largely be implemented under the new Commission.
Permit me, therefore, to restrict my comments in the main to two issues, namely reconstruction in Kosovo and the sentence passed on Abdullah Öçalan.
Firstly, I should like to remind you that from the very beginning, the European Union was heavily involved in the endeavours being made to bring about a peaceful resolution of the Kosovo conflict.
In particular, we bear the responsibility for the reconstruction aspects of UNMIG.
The humanitarian aid committed to Kosovo and the neighbouring countries totals EUR 378 million, with the bulk going towards providing essential foods and other goods such as medicines, sanitation equipment and accommodation.
This aid is channelled through the UNHCR, the International Red Cross, UNICEF and various NGOs.
This amount includes the EUR 196 million currently being mobilised from the Commission's budgetary reserves.
Furthermore, EUR 100 million were committed as macroeconomic aid for the damage sustained by other countries as a result of the Kosovo crisis, 62 million being earmarked for Albania, 25 million for FYROM and 13 million for Montenegro.
Working in conjunction with KFOR, UNMIG and UNHCR, these projects were prioritised and they are to supplement the on-going work undertaken by the humanitarian organisations.
We hope to be able to commit the EUR 45 million before the end of this month.
As explained to the budgetary authorities in the trialogue of 2 July, an additional EUR 92 million will still be required this year.
It was agreed during this trialogue session that in September the Commission will submit a proposal to increase the budget by means of an amending and supplementary budget which will raise the 92 million required.
I should now like to say a few words on the issue of a reconstruction agency.
Before the Cologne European Council meeting, the Commission proposed to the Heads of State and Government that a special agency should be set up which would deal with the implementation of the reconstruction work.
The European Council followed this recommendation and instructed the Commission back in June to formulate an actual proposal on the basis of experience gained from Bosnia.
The Commission takes the view that it will only be possible to work effectively if the vast proportion of activities is concentrated in Pristina.
The Commission assumes that to uphold these principles accords with the Court of Auditors' position and the first reactions of the European Parliament.
The Commission has refrained from stating its position, preferring the Commission's definitive position to be established by the new Commission.
Meanwhile, as of 1 July, the Commission has been despatching a task force consisting of approximately 20 officials and supporting personnel to Pristina, where it will be responsible for implementing the reconstruction programme.
All authority required to effect implementation was transferred from Brussels to the leader of the task force in Pristina in order to create a mechanism which will work with optimum efficiency and speed to provide aid at a time when it is most urgently needed in Kosovo.
Finally, a comment on achieving co-ordination amongst the donors.
On 13 July, a meeting took place of the High Level Steering Group, the committee managed by the European Commission and the World Bank which is based on partnership and is intended to co-ordinate the Kosovo crisis aid provided by international donors.
It was confirmed on this occasion that the first Kosovo donor conference would be held on 28 July in Brussels.
Turning to the Öçalan trial, the Commission takes the same position on this matter as that taken up by the German Presidency on 29 June, following the death sentence passed by the state security tribunal of Ankara on Abdullah Öçalan, and again expresses its absolute repudiation of the death penalty.
It was for this reason that on 29 June, the Commission asked the relevant Turkish authorities to take account of the European Union's repudiation of this death penalty.
Consequently, the Commission, knowing that Turkey has not employed the death penalty since 1984, anticipates that as a member of the Council of Europe, Turkey will abide by the obligations that it has entered into.
To carry out the death penalty would inevitably place relations between the European Union and Turkey under huge strain.
Since it is impossible in three minutes to list all these challenges - the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has said that it is impossible to list its programme - I will limit myself to a few brief observations on some particular points.
With regard to enlargement, we must be aware that events in the Balkans have changed the landscape, and in Helsinki we will have to open negotiations with other countries.
In relation to institutional affairs, the Finnish Presidency has an enormous responsibility: that of initiating work which will lead to the conclusion of a statute on fundamental rights.
But we should not forget that the mandate of the Cologne European Council meeting speaks of a non-binding statute which, initially, will not be incorporated into the Treaties.
With regard to the statute on MEPs, the Finnish Presidency - and it should be congratulated on this - has also shown respect for the fact that this initiative concerns this Parliament.
With regard to the functioning of the College of Commissioners, I would like to say, from this Chamber, that we will not allow the individual responsibility of the Commissioners to be used as a weapon.
Although this is very important and events in the Balkans have demonstrated the urgency required in this field, the Tampere Summit must be dedicated to developing a region which enjoys liberty, security and justice.
These are the challenges for the Tampere Summit and immigration, although important, must not be allowed to push them to one side.
And with regard to Morocco, those EUR 125 million must be released.
Turkey must at last demonstrate respect for human rights, for full democracy, particularly as regards the Kurdish question.
If Turkey is prepared to recognise these rules, then there is a clear and unambiguous road leading to Europe, but that means showing respect for democracy and showing respect for human rights.
Applause Mr President, during the Finnish presidential term, the Council will be discussing many important issues.
The Finnish government's programme for its presidential term shows that Finland intends to carry out its most important tasks in an effective manner.
Mr President, I have lost count of the number of times we have discussed the problem of Balkan reconstruction in this Parliament.
We have spoken about Bosnia and have endlessly discussed the same problems of decentralisation.
I think that the European Union can offer the spirit of European construction to the reconstruction of the Balkans and that will be the determining factor.
Nothing we say about Thessaloniki, Pristina or Sarajevo will have the same meaning, because today - and this is where the danger lies - in the method of reconstruction with the UN on one side, the European Union on another and the OSCE on yet another, we are creating institutions of dependence where the reconstruction of the Balkans depends on our will but the self-determination of the Balkan peoples in terms of managing themselves is not achieved.
The danger is that we plan and construct on behalf of others, but do not create the conditions necessary for the peoples and countries of the Balkans to take control of their own destiny.
It is for this reason that here, in this Parliament, we have already proposed, for example, a foundation for democracy which, starting with the Bosnian problems, should be extended to the whole of the Balkans.
This is where the great problem lies in those countries with authoritarian structures where democracy is not readily available.
Not until democracy is readily available will the reconstruction of the Balkans be possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the disastrous war in the Balkans unleashed against a sovereign State without the approval of the United Nations Security Council and with no prior declaration of war only appears to have ended.
But at what price?
Bitter derision and, material waste have added to the human and political damage, and we are now in the front line of Community confrontations, in a psychological situation which is aggravated by the destruction which we have brought about.
Mr President, over the next six months, the Finnish Presidency faces the weighty task of initiating substantial input to the economic and social reconstruction of Kosovo.
At the same time, Brussels must urge the rival Albanian parties, that is the Democratic League of Kosovo and the Kosovo Liberation Army, to work together.
A regional Stability Pact could be one solution, or a pan Balkans bureau for reconstruction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in Office of the Council, ever since 1989, Kosovo has constantly been the subject of debate in this Parliament.
Unfortunately, the Western governments' lack of action led to Milosevic first launching an assault on Croatia, then on Bosnia Herzegovina, and ultimately creating a bloodbath in Kosovo.
If the Council were to locate the Kosovo agency in Thessaloniki then inefficiency would be the order of the day.
I urgently call upon the Council and also the Greek government to vote for this option.
Applause Madam President-in-Office of the Council, as others have said previously, your Presidency has come at an exceptional time, just when the crisis has erupted in Kosovo and the European Union has made its contribution to dealing with it, after an institutional crisis which we have still not dealt with, after the election of a new Parliament in very unusual circumstances with voters taking less and less interest in an institution which has more and more powers and, finally, after the Cologne European Council meeting which launched important projects for the future.
In order to face up to this, Madam President, we require a Community machine which is in good working order, and I can assure you that my group will do everything possible so that this machine may be put in order as soon as possible.
I believe that the presence by your side of a strong Commission making its contribution to the development of that mandate is equally essential.
However, apart from that IGC, certain things will also depend on your Presidency, and we all know that certain improvements to the functioning of the institutions do not necessarily depend on a reform of the Treaties and that it concerns firstly - and perhaps principally - the Council.
However, the President of your country has given a marvellous demonstration of the contribution that Europeans can make to peace on their continent and the development of a European solution to European problems.
Finally, in relation to the death penalty, please allow me to draw your attention and insist to you that your Presidency intervenes with all its powers in Istanbul as well as in Tehran, since in Tehran we know of thirteen judges who face the death penalty simply for having been accused of spying on behalf of Israel.
The most difficult of all will be to secure long-term peace.
If they hope to perhaps one day become members of the European Union, we can strengthen the democratic forces in the same way as was successful for other previous dictatorships in Southern Europe.
We must also provide humanitarian aid to Serbia, insofar as this can be achieved without supporting the Milosevic regime, and we must urge municipal leaders, private associations and others to work with the democratic forces in both Kosovo and Serbia.
I have seldom heard a Commissioner distance himself so clearly, and in such a well-reasoned manner, from a Council Resolution.
The Council has entered into a shameful, face-saving compromise for those who promised to locate the centre in Thessaloniki.
I ask all the Union's citizens to note that it is therefore not the Commission and the Parliament but their own governments which cannot grasp something as simple as the fact that the reconstruction work in Kosovo must be carried out in Kosovo and from Kosovo.
We challenge the Turkish Parliament to abolish the death penalty once and for all, because it is very much in our interest to welcome Turkey amongst us as a European country amongst equal partners.
The Öçalan case could also be an opportunity for the people, for the Turks, for the Kurds in Anatolia and for the country, the Republic of Turkey, if the Turkish government and the Turkish Parliament only had the will for this to be so.
In this respect, our resolution, which hopefully we will adopt tomorrow, is also an appeal to our Turkish colleagues in Ankara.
Working together, we could ensure that one day it will not be necessary to conduct debates in this exalted Chamber on a democratic Republic of Turkey.
Mr President, between the devil of Milosevic and the deep blue sea of NATO: this is the feeling of most of the Serbian democratic opposition to Milosevic.
To achieve this, reconstruction must be carried out through the involvement of local communities, with exchanges between municipalities, universities, men and women of the European Union, Kosovo and the Republic of Yugoslavia.
Therefore, for as long as the European Parliament focuses its attention solely on whether Öçalan's death sentence will be enforced, without dealing with the question of peoples' rights to self-determination, it will scratch the surface of the problem but never manage to resolve it.
That is the heart of the matter and we have gained that insight particularly during the debates on and inquiry into the enlargement of the European Union, a democratic constitutional state, that is the heart of our movement, of our Union.
I also think that we are justified in saying that everything depends on this, both the safety of the citizens and the development of the economy in the regions concerned.
I should like in particular to draw your attention to the fact that there are perhaps 2000 or maybe more Kosovan prisoners who have been taken to Serbia by the withdrawing Serbian troops.
I feel that there should be no question of us leaving them to their fate, but that we in this Parliament, the Council and the Commission should give our full attention to the situation.
I think that we should also urge parties and groups in Kosovo towards political participation in government.
That is why the resolution also states how important it is for Mr Rugova to be present in Kosovo.
The Parliament has never given up hoping for this.
That must be brought about swiftly and efficiently, working in close co-operation with the United Nations and the OSCE.
The Union will have to find additional means from other sources in order to finance the Balkans ambitions it is rightly pursuing.
But I hope that the UN will implement this in such a way that the Kosovars themselves play the leading part in the reconstruction process.
A great deal has already been said about the situation in Serbia.
I support all those who maintain, on the one hand, that Milosevic should be sent to The Hague as soon as possible and who, on the other, ask for support for the democratic opposition in Serbia.
The location of the office is an important matter but the principles on which we are basing our work are far more important still.
We must discuss this honestly with those countries.
It continues to be a bleeding wound in our continent.
Thousands of people have been killed and maimed in the long years of this conflict.
Hopefully, the EU and the Finnish Presidency will be able to play an active role in this process.
Since we hope that Turkey also will be welcomed to the European Union within the next few years, we appeal to Turkey not only to suspend Öçalan's death sentence, but also to work towards the general abolition of capital punishment in Turkey.
To conclude, I would like to urge the Turkish government on behalf of the Liberal Group to go even further and to use this opportunity in order to take the initiative for negotiations and to implement those reforms which are necessary in order to guarantee the political, human and cultural rights of the Kurds.
Our group condemned both the violation of human rights on the part of Belgrade and the war by NATO against Yugoslavia, as an illegal, unjust and immoral war.
For this reason, despite the violation of human rights and the ethnic cleansing against the Kurds by the Turkish regime, our group does not request that the European Union nor NATO bomb Turkey.
On the contrary, we believe that the two problems that you have mentioned - the death sentence and respect for the human rights of the Kurdish ethnic minority - require a peaceful, political solution.
In addition, the European Union must demand that the Turkish government maintains a dialogue with the Kurds, a dialogue which resolves the Kurdish claims for autonomy within Turkey, as well as respect for democratic rights.
In the same way that there are Autonomous Communities in Spain, Länder in Germany or Communities in Belgium, etc., there should also be a similar solution in Turkey for the Kurds, so that they may enjoy, in the same way that you have indicated in Finland, the ability to speak their own language, a free press reflecting their problems and a regional Parliament.
To this end, we believe that the European Union and the European Parliament should react speedily and thoroughly, so that Turkey may embark on a democratic path and participate in this greater Europe which stretches from Portugal to Russia.
The question is whether or not there is the basic political will throughout the whole of Europe to ensure its progress.
Mr President, today we have heard two Foreign Ministers speaking on the issue of Turkey.
The Finnish government minister made reference to the Öçalan case which was most encouraging.
But we must not limit ourselves to a few simple references in our speeches.
The first is that we were under the impression that it was interested in human rights both within the Balkans and further afield.
The second reason is that the European Union is guilty of not granting asylum to Öçalan.
Mr President, firstly, I should like to congratulate Finland on the Presidency and I should also like to compliment the Finnish government on the sound and refreshing manner in which it is approaching this task.
If you see an opportunity to achieve something in this respect then I think you will have achieved something very worthwhile for Europe.
A second point on your agenda is a transparent Europe free of fraud.
In my country, the Netherlands, we have a law on openness in government with maximum transparency and Finland has the same tradition.
To conclude, Mr President, the subject of human rights.
Firstly, in relation to Yugoslavia.
I also hope that you can prevent the death penalty from being carried out in Turkey for I believe that would be a disgrace for Europe.
I hear that the Finnish Presidency has already organised a visit to Burma.
I hope to travel to Thailand and Burma in three weeks' time and to speak to all parties concerned.
I think that you would then have performed a valuable task for democracy in the ASEAN countries.
Mr President, although our hemicycle is largely empty, I do not want to miss this opportunity, from the benches of this Assembly, to greet and wish the best of luck to my former colleague, Tarya Halonen.
Indeed, if it manages to bring to a successful conclusion the Tampere Extraordinary Summit, which concerns the security of Europe's citizens, the preparation of a European defence system, through the integration of the WEU with the European Union, the launch of a new round of enlargement in December, and finally, the implementation of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, the Finnish Presidency will have been a great Presidency of transition for the 21st century.
Finland, thanks to the commitment and tenacity of its President, Martti Ahtisaari, caused a shift in the mind set in Kosovo from one of war to one of peace.
In Kosovo, and throughout the region devastated by war, almost everything remains to be done: to guarantee an orderly return of the refugees, to build democratic institutions, to set up infrastructures, to reconstruct the economy and make it work.
The great European plan for definitive peacemaking in the Balkans must not fall victim to complicated and penny-pinching calculations.
The European Union could subsidise Kosovo for ever and hardly notice it.
Its biggest trading partner in the past and almost certainly in the future must be its neighbour immediately to the north, Serbia proper.
So my question to the President-in-Office of the Council and to the Commission is this: how far have you thought through the political steps, the economic and financial commitments that are needed to bring about a free and democratic Serbia and reintegrate a free and democratic Serbia into the European economy and body politic?
In December 1998, the European Parliament adopted a statute with a qualified majority, a decision which was confirmed in May of this year by an overwhelming majority.
I would like to remind you that the European Commission has unequivocally approved the statute of the European Parliament.
Permit me to make a few observations regarding the principles which will govern our actions.
The Council cannot seriously be considering the option that only two members of Parliament collaborate on this catalogue of fundamental rights.
Applause Madam Minister, since 11 February, when our Parliament reacted to the first news of the massacres in Kosovo, it has ceaselessly denounced the atrocities committed in that province, caught up again in that hellish spiral of violence and fear which has caused so much suffering through the systematic violation of a human being's most basic rights, one of the first of which is that of being able to stay in the place where one was born, and to retain the culture one has grown up with.
The dynamic reaction of the Union's governments has been supported by the large majority of European citizens.
Public opinion can be congratulated for the fact that, for the first time in centuries, a war has been fought, not in the defence of national or private interests, but in order that what is right should triumph.
If many of us feared seven years ago, that Europe had been killed in Sarajevo, our President is all the more right when he says this morning that a new Europe should be born in Pristina.
Nicole Fontaine committed herself this morning to contributing personally to this undertaking.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, repairing the dramatic material and, above all, moral consequences of the Kosovo drama, collaborating with the International Criminal Court so that the crimes committed do not go unpunished, laying down the foundations for the economic development of the area so as to promote reconciliation between the Kosovan Albanian and Serbian populations, must be matters of the utmost priority for the European Union.
Another priority must be the promotion of enlargement in order to safeguard the peace and political stability of the continent.
It is something which affects millions of our fellow citizens in Europe, not once in a while, but every day of every year, and that is mental illness.
It is important because as the World Bank showed, this is the fastest growing area of health burden throughout the world.
It is important because as the United Nations has declared, it is to be one of the priorities for the UN for the next fifty years, as declared by Boutros-Boutros-Ghali, Secretary General.
It is important because, as the Harvard World Bank report showed, mental disorder accounts for some 10.5 % of the global health burden and that is forecast to rise to 15 % by the year 2020.
It is important because five of the ten leading causes of disability are psychiatric, with the first of those, unipolar depression, accounting for some 10 % of life with disability.
It is important because psychiatric and neurological conditions cause 28 % of lives with disability.
It is important because surveys show that one in three people visiting their doctors have a mental health problem but only one in six are diagnosed as such.
The President cut the speaker off I would also like to commend the Finnish Presidency on another of their initiatives which is the attention they are giving to the development of the information society.
This issue is going to affect the lives of every citizen in the European Union.
We have crucial decisions to make in the Union and in the regulation of information technology over the next five years.
I am very much hoping that the Finnish Presidency will give us the right framework within which those decisions will be taken.
Indeed, I suspect that many of our colleagues are not as literate in technology as they should be, but that technology is going to have a huge effect on opening up the single market and we must make sure, first of all, that legislation does not restrict the ability of people to innovate and introduce changes and new forms of electronic commerce.
I have to say that over the next five years the power of electronic commerce will act more quickly to create the single market than any amount of harmonising legislation that we might care to introduce in this Chamber or anywhere else.
We begin from the position that the European Union will approach the issue of stability in the Balkans on a regional basis.
Serbia is a part of the Balkans.
In this I agree with what has been said here regarding the safety of those who are speaking for freedom of opinion and also the proposal that we should create, through various means, a structure to support real freedom of opinion for this country.
The war is behind us, but the peace has to be built.
But Finland respects the choice of those eleven EU Member States who do belong to NATO.
In my opinion, we should all share in the task of ensuring that the Balkan region is secure.
But as I said before, for this we need a non-military option in addition to the military one.
I would also like to mention that the International War Crimes Tribunal is, in our opinion, extremely important, and the tribunal dealing with war crimes in Yugoslavia is a special partner in co-operation for us.
The European Union must not be allowed to become a fortress: it must be both strong and open at the same time.
I wish to call attention to the fact that there is often room for improvement in all our countries when it comes to the status of ethnic minorities.
In addition, the situation regarding the rights of minorities in Turkey has been mentioned here.
I spoke of it in my speech, and the Kurdish question will most certainly be a subject for debate here very often in the future, when we shall strive to find a way to improve the situation.
However, in our opinion, enlargement is a special issue, and we will do everything within our power in the area of institutional reform to move it along.
I believe that we have to discuss the matter again with the new Commission, and also with you here in the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
In the view of the Council, Mr Bangemann, who has, since 1992, been the Commission Member expressly responsible for telecommunications, was in breach of the regulations.
When he spoke earlier today here in the European Parliament, he told us what demands he would be making in practice on the Members of the new Commission.
I am happy to note that the Commission has acted in accordance with the wishes of both the Council and Parliament and begun preparations to alter rules relating to personnel policy.
Only credible reforms will bring the Commission and the Union as a whole closer to the public and increase the confidence of our citizens in the Union and its institutions.
Mr President, as Finland is bilingual, I will conclude my contribution in Swedish.
As President of the European Union, Finland will place great emphasis on openness, efficiency and accountability.
The reform process has been initiated in all institutions, which is due, amongst others, to the European Parliament, which on various occasions has drawn attention to these problems.
I hope that all EU institutions take responsibility by showing the necessary readiness to undergo reform in this work.
The resolution for debate relates to specific events and to principles concerning the conduct of Commissioners.
I will therefore respond on behalf of the Commission by reporting briefly on those events and on the Commission's reaction to them.
On 1 July 1999, the Commission discussed the matter before beginning its formal scheduled meeting.
The Commission formally took note of those statements from Mr Bangemann.
Commissioners subsequently considered the issues raised by these events and their conclusions are set out in a statement which was published on 1 July 1999 and extensively reported.
On 9 July 1999, as the House will have heard from Mr Sasi, the Council decided to refer this case to the Court of Justice under Article 213 of the Treaty and, following that decision, it is now for the Court to pronounce on the matters.
Honourable Members will understand that the case is therefore now sub judice and the Commission consequently has to abstain from public comment on it.
As a general indication of the view of the Commission on the issues posed by the motion before the House, I refer Honourable Members to the concluding paragraph of the Commission's statement of 1 July 1999 which expressed the view 'that it would be advisable for the future to clarify the implementation of Article 213 regarding Commission members' activities after they have ceased to hold office'.
The Commission consequently notes that on 17 July 1999 the President and Commission-designate agreed upon and published a draft Code of Conduct for Commissioners.
The House may also wish to know that, in the course of discussions this month, Members of the existing Commission who have always fully respected their solemn undertaking to meet the obligations of integrity and discretion have readily and voluntarily reaffirmed that commitment.
The Commission has therefore had no opportunity to discuss the specific call in the motion for resolution for current Commissioners to respect voluntarily the new Code of Conduct.
I have sought to respond to the motion for debate as fully as possible whilst respecting the fact that the case which prompted the question is now sub judice .
I know that the House will share my awareness of the fact that this debate and my later response to it will need to take account of that obvious legal consideration.
Mr President, it is clear that in our European Union today changes are underway, particularly in the Commission, as a result of the refusal to give discharge for the 1996 budget and then the consequent and ultimate mass resignation of the Commission.
From the comments of Commissioner Kinnock, the Commission might examine this tomorrow or next week.
We unanimously support in our group the Council's decision for this case to go to the Court of Justice.
We are particularly hopeful that they will look at the suspension of pension rights for the Commissioner in this instance, particularly while he is engaged in a private company.
We must start with the freedom of people and the fact that we are all in public service voluntarily, and the ex-Commissioner cannot claim ignorance of this.
It is clear - while I respect the fact that it is still sub judice - that the acceptance of the post offered to him by Telefónica represents an obvious conflict of interests.
I therefore believe that we should draw up codes of conduct which include standards of political decency applicable in all of our countries.
Mr President, I am delighted to be making my first intervention under your Presidency.
Mr President, on 10 June, all Europeans suffered an electoral defeat.
The electorate, the citizens out there in our countries, cannot always clearly distinguish between the Commission, the Parliament and the Council.
He has again been kicked out by the Liberal faction in the European Parliament.
We can not accept it when someone says: 'Well, my reputation may have been called into question but, in any case, I am free to do what I like once my time in office is up' .
Naturally, Mr Bangemann has to take personal responsibility for his actions, but a policy geared towards economic interests as a matter of priority and, unfortunately, towards the business management interests of large concerns, also as a matter of priority, poses the inevitable risk that their leading representatives, as those putting this policy into practise, adopt the same attitude, thereby devoting themselves to maximising their personal profit, in violation of every moral code.
We think that the Council of Ministers was right to inform the Courts of Justice, in accordance with article 213 of the Treaty, which prohibits Commissioners from accepting, even after leaving their posts, jobs which would place them in an awkward position, given their obligations to be honest and sensitive in these matters.
One of these obligations which I feel should be mentioned in particular, as it is not mentioned often enough, is that of professional secrecy, which, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty, applies to Commissioners indefinitely after leaving office.
The one year minimum period which would relieve the Commissioners of their obligations after leaving office, seems far too short.
In addition to this, potential penalties should be made much more severe, and could even include the returning of salaries paid to them during their time in office at the Commission.
This must be put right as a matter of urgency, particularly before the forthcoming international negotiations at the Millennium round which will be fundamental to Europe's interests.
Mr President, it is right that this Parliament and indeed the Council and the Commission treat this matter with the utmost seriousness.
It really is most reprehensible that there has been not only an apparent flouting of the formal rules for Commissioners, but also a contravention of the spirit of transparency and trust that should be the basis of the work between this Parliament and Commissioners.
I know that the money he has been offered by Telefónica hardly can be justified by the description of a handful of silver and indeed it begs the question of just how seriously Members of this House will treat a company like Telefónica when it comes to lobby us as they surely will on the matter of the review and future legislation in this field.
I understand Commissioner Kinnock's hesitation and his hesitations because this matter is sub judice .
I support absolutely the Council's decision to refer this matter to the Court and to use all the powers that there are under the agreements.
If we could find some way not only of having a measure to take against former Commissioners who act in this way, but also against the companies who benefit from their knowledge, then I think that we might have two very powerful levers to use in future transgressions.
We wish the new Commission every success and hope that the high standards they espouse will be put into practice.
In my view, the Commission has a final chance to prove itself the clean, efficient and effective executive that the European Union needs and that its citizens deserve.
Should the Prodi Commission fail, then I fear that the European Council will execute a coup d'état and deprive the Commission of its right of initiative and its important role as the promoter of European Union.
Mr Prodi's Commission is off to a good start, and I congratulate him on that, but it must continue as it has begun.
I thank the Council for taking a swift decision to bring this case to the European Court of Justice, but as we have to be the pioneers in an administration which is open and efficient, so Mr Prodi's Commission should get ready for the test in September.
There are those who would say, and they have, I believe, rationality on their side, that the provisions of Article 213 of the Treaty and its references to integrity and discretion mean that for anyone who has an understanding of required standards in public life, little more should need to be said, if anything.
I do not believe the European Union, its institutions or its people would be enriched by that experience.
It is a fair warning to all of us who serve the institutions and the European people that we are responsible for our own destiny and our own standards and we must therefore proceed without any form of delay to ensuring that those standards are as stringent as possible.
I should like to say to her, therefore, that the Commission, as I reported earlier, discussed the matter in its meeting of 1 July.
I say that to ensure that Members of this House understand that the issue is live, it has been a matter of discussion, the action has now been taken by the Council and that determines the path for the future.
But there is no lack of concern or consideration in the current Commission, despite the fact that it is coming to the end of its life, in these issues.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
