Rule 162 is perfectly clear.
Are there any comments?
It has thus implicitly ruled that the half-day's allowance is income - think back to ground 21 in the Lord Bruce judgment - and is therefore subject to national taxation laws.
Madam President, I would just like to say that the Court of Justice has indeed summoned me to attend on Tuesday, 12 January 1999 in the Wijsenbeek case.
It was on the Council's common position on the European capital of culture for the years 2005 to 2019.
Madam President, could you point out to the new colleague that this is a European Parliament and if he wants to continue with his narrow nationalist views maybe he should have been elected to the Scottish Parliament?
Madam President, I would like to make a further point concerning page 22 of the Minutes.
Madam President, I would like to protest to Parliament's Bureau because when we Members ask questions intended for specific Commissioners, it is because we know that they are the ones responsible for certain issues.
Decision on urgent procedure Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to call on the House to approve the request for urgent procedure for the programme to supply agricultural produce to the Russian Federation, in accordance with the resolution adopted by the House on 19 November.
Madam President, I rise to present my final report on the 1996 discharge.
Last week in the Committee on Budgetary Control, a narrow margin came down in favour of giving discharge while voting across party lines.
In all good faith, last October this House adopted the Bösch report, setting out a clear structure for an anti-fraud office - OLAF.
Despite the fanfare of the President of the Commission earlier this month in Brussels, announcing an independent institution to combat fraud, this proposal does not meet the request of Parliament.
The handling of these issues by the Commission has compounded the problem.
Well qualified and hard-working officials have in many cases been asked to do too much with too little.
The conclusions of the committee are drawn up with the purpose of establishing a work programme for the Commission over the next 12 months to ensure significant change to modernise the Commission by 1 January 2000.
This work programme was adopted in the committee by a vast majority.
Not only are the substantive issues serious enough to justify not doing so, but the real truth is that the Commission is incapable of undertaking these reforms by itself.
They cannot succeed without the active support of our Parliament.
I therefore conclude by making an appeal on behalf of all those, whether inside or outside the Commission, who wish to see modernised institutions based on integrity, ready to implement the euro and welcome new members from the East.
We must now act not only for the long-term viability of our institutions but also for the credibility of our Parliament.
I urge the House not to grant discharge on the 1996 budget. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main criticisms of the implementation of the 1996 budget is that in that year - and with the substantial budgetary appropriations at its disposal - the Commission failed to implement the European Union's external policies effectively.
The main reasons were the Commission's incapacity to take the required managerial measures in good time, and its inability either to deploy its staff effectively or request the additional resources necessary.
The European Union's inefficiency became legendary in Sarajevo.
As the Court of Auditors recently noted, the results are hard to see.
Madam President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has discussed the budget in detail and has tried to come up with some improvements for payments under the Social Fund and in the other social items.
First of all, we need to examine whether 1996 was the only year concerned, or whether there were others.
I cannot comment on the substance of the claims, but I believe they are serious enough for us to look into them very thoroughly.
Agreement on this at least has been reached with the Committee on Budgetary Control, but there is still plenty to be done.
The Socialist Group has tabled a large number of amendments to try to establish a better balance between the decision to give discharge and the text of the resolution.
The ECHO case illustrates this, but so does the MED affair.
When we vote on giving discharge to the Commission on Thursday, you will know the facts, as they are listed point by point in the Elles report.
I and my group also think that what the Commission has done since April this year, when conditions were first laid down for granting discharge, is important.
I think that the interpretation given to Article 206 of the Treaty is also of crucial importance.
There is a great deal of unease about this issue, and I think it needs to be sorted out as soon as possible.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if today's debate on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Communities for the 1996 financial year is one of dramatic intensity and not without passion, it is because, unquestionably, we have gone beyond the bounds what is acceptable.
Successive audits by the Court of Auditors, which since 1994 has declined to provide positive overall assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the payments for the financial year, have condemned the way in which the Commission manages the operating appropriations allocated to it, whether for humanitarian interventions or the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes or indeed the reconstruction programmes in the former Yugoslavia.
Not only are these appropriations used inefficiently or diverted from their target, but the lack of transparency in management has allowed real misappropriations of funds to the detriment of both the beneficiaries of the programmes and European taxpayers.
Yet the Commission, instead of dealing with the problem head-on by undertaking a drastic reform of its structures and procedures and opting for transparency, still maintains its haughty or even contemptuous attitude towards the monitoring bodies and towards Parliament.
I am sure that you will not fall into this crude trap, that you will assume your full political responsibilities towards your electorate and that as a result you will refuse to grant a discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 1996 financial year.
In these terms, the question before us is only what position to take in the light of the irregularities and instances of fraud that have been brought to light - and since we know that the Commission is undeniably responsible and that the Commission has failed to act, in particular to inform the European Parliament and the judicial authorities of the Member States.
We should also ask ourselves whether the answers given by the Commission are enough and whether they are in keeping with the seriousness of what has taken place and whether our minds can be at rest for the future.
For us, the response is a definite 'no' to all of these questions - for if we did grant the discharge in this present situation not only would the European Parliament be failing outright to assume its responsibilities but, inevitably, it would be seen as jointly responsible for the acts that it has itself been denouncing.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group is determined not to grant discharge to the Commission.
The citizens of Europe trust that this role will be fulfilled.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament - demonstrating a sense of responsibility and awareness of its powers - voted by a large majority last March for a postponement of discharge.
But please let us not transform this vote into an exclusively political one, as some have attempted to do.
Madam President, the majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control propose that we grant a discharge to the Commission for the 1996 financial year.
It does so, as it did in 1994 and 1995, even though the Court of Auditors has declined to provide positive assurance as to the regularity of the accounts.
It is not to target the Commissioners personally, it is to give a verdict on a system, a system guided by the philosophy that we need to spend more and that not spending more means curbing European construction, a system in which questioning the operation of an institution such as the Commission would be considered as holding Europe back, whereas of course it in fact allows it to advance.
Everyone in the Committee on Budgetary Control agrees that the Commission has acted in a way that is very much open to criticism, but the point now is to join together in finding constructive solutions to the problems that have been revealed.
The voting yesterday and today shows that there is a clear majority in Parliament in favour of closing the accounts for 1996.
Mr President, the European Parliament must remain a place of negotiation and compromise.
Parliament and the Commission are the only two truly European bodies and, where possible, we must work in the same direction.
The Elles report includes a proposal for a work programme in paragraph 26.
Therefore, to keep this door open, I would urge you to grant discharge under the same terms as the Elles report was approved in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, the question of whether or not to grant discharge is one that turns on Parliament's role as an authority which exercises budgetary control.
It is in fact our credibility which is at stake, because if we give a discharge to the Commission, we shall be assuming joint responsibility for all the outstanding problems.
Our work has not been particularly encouraging in the last nine months, when I think of how we have had to drag information out of the Commission and how we have had to fight for the slightest changes.
It is above all the European Parliament which, as the institution that represents our electors, will be held responsible by our taxpayers for how we use money in the EU.
However, there are still some serious outstanding problems and an ineffective administration.
In granting discharge, the European Parliament would be guaranteeing its citizens that their money was being spent as economically and efficiently as possible and that the institutions were doing everything in their power to provide the best possible protection against fraud, corruption and organised crime, and we feel that we cannot, in all conscience, say that today.
Giving the Commission discharge now when everyone knows that there are major abuses and inefficiencies in handling European funding would rightly be seen by the public as a failure to take things seriously.
Giving discharge would be circumventing a number of reasons which Parliament gave earlier for not granting discharge.
It has spent around DEM 460 million - ECU 230 million - on staffing outside the structure of the budget.
That is the result of politics and not of revenge!
Mr President, this debate has shown that the procedure on the 1996 discharge has been the most difficult ever.
Last March Parliament was quite correct to defer discharge and gave five reasons for doing so.
We have before us a report which had 106 amendments in committee - a record for the discharge.
Every discharge decision is conditional in that it is accompanied by a report with paragraphs of resolution which the Commission undertakes to deal with on receipt of discharge.
I believe that the House should confirm that vote on Thursday, by granting discharge to the Commission for the year 1996.
Mr President, I regret that the 1996 discharge procedure is not focused on the matter in hand, but has become a political football in the debate here in the plenary.
Mr President, I think the Socialist Group position is extremely clear and that is why it has been given very forthrightly this morning.
Perhaps the most serious charge of all against the Commission is the lack of democratic accountability in that Parliament has been hampered in its attempts to gain access to information which would point to or dispel allegations of fraud.
The problems encountered in the execution of the MED and ECHO programmes need major structural answers to ensure systems are in place to avoid a similar situation arising.
Nevertheless, since the postponement of the discharge in March, improvements are evident in some fields including the transit system and the SME sector.
With the firm note of warning in the Amsterdam Treaty, we must heed the Court of Auditors' view on the global assurance of accounts.
But I will be voting along with my political group in accordance with the committee's position to grant discharge.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 1996 budget year was certainly not a glorious chapter in the history of the European Union.
That is why constructive cooperation is also the option we should choose in the discharge procedure.
Mr President, I must first say that this year's discharge procedure has been unlike any other.
For the first time, we have been inundated by special reports from the Court of Auditors denouncing malpractices and irregularities in the Commission's administration, and giving the figures.
But the problem is that Mr Liikanen cannot achieve much because there is a system in the Commission which ensures that even the best efforts are frustrated.
The European Commission's management can and must improve.
Together, we need to be able to find the correct relationship between cost and efficiency.
And that will not be possible while the Treaty and our Rules of Procedure are not aligned, while the responsibility is shared and everyone must be treated in the same way, and while the Commission's weakness is such that it prevents it from taking any decisions.
Despite the 1984 precedent, despite the wording of our Rules of Procedure, both of which take quite serious liberties with the Treaty, it seems to me that the problem does not lie in giving our opinion on whether to refuse to grant discharge.
Granting the discharge means closing the dossier.
Parliament is not sufficiently well informed of what happened in the course of the 1996 financial year.
We have no reason to stop the clock, to stop taking evidence, when each day brings us more information, true or false, on the financial year under consideration.
Mr President, the Elles report includes numerous points concerning which the Commission has already stated its position in meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and also in written form.
I hope that all Members have had a chance to read our written replies to all the questions about the draft report which we received earlier.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy said that the Court of Auditors did not give a positive declaration on the accounts of the Communities.
As far as the accounts are concerned, it gave a positive declaration.
As far as commitments are concerned, it gave a positive declaration.
There I would ask you to read the Court of Auditors' report for this year, which states that in the field of agriculture, these normally take place at the level of final beneficiary in Member States.
Together with you, we have tried to change the system for management of structural funds.
For the year 1998 the Commission has accepted the eligibility sheets and will apply the system of corrections to put things right.
But, even more important, now that the whole reform of the structural funds is in the hands of the Council, your opinion is also needed.
We need a clear system where if Member States detect an irregularity, they can transfer the money to a good project.
If they do not, the Court of Auditors or the Commission will recover the money for ever.
I also want to say that I am ready to receive criticism of the Commission, but that the Court of Auditors has criticised the Member States little more than today's debate in this area, and also as regards 1996.
I come now to paragraphs 26 and 27 and also the amendments which were mentioned.
The Vienna European Council last weekend welcomed the Commission proposal and advised the institutions to examine the proposal with a view to taking a decision without delay - I stress, without delay.
I would like to make it clear that, according to the proposal, the office will enjoy full freedom to conduct internal investigations on its own initiative inside the Commission and other institutions.
In order to resolve a conflict we set up a reflection group on personnel policy chaired by Sir David Williamson, former Secretary-General of the Commission, and the group submitted its final report on 9 November.
The group was composed of representatives of the trade unions and staff associations and of the administration.
The report is the starting point for modifications of the Staff Regulations.
Before proceeding to legislative proposals to the Council and Parliament, the report must go through an extensive consultation process with the other institutions and with representatives of the staff.
The European Parliament has reiterated its will to be thoroughly consulted in this area.
Consultations with the staff are already under way and interinstitutional consultation has started in parallel.
The College of the Heads of Administration has already discussed the report and the first meeting at the level of the Directors of Personnel for all institutions will be held the day after tomorrow, Thursday 17 December.
Conceptually, the Williamson report can be split into two parts.
The first part is about modernising the European public service.
The second part concerns the allowances of the officials of the European institutions.
As far as the salaries of officials are concerned, they are guided by the rules which were adopted by the Council in 1991 for ten years and annexed to the Staff Regulations.
On the basis of the interinstitutional consultation and the social dialogue, the Commission intends, by the end of January 1999, to present an indicative timetable for presenting communications on the reforms to Parliament and to the Council.
The idea is first to present communications on the contents and then, on the basis of the discussion, to make the final proposals for modifications.
The President of the Commission has given a commitment to present to the next designated President, on the basis of the evaluation, a global concept of how to organise the portfolios of the Commissioners and how to structure the directorates-general in accordance with political priorities.
But what is important is that the President of the Commission is committed to doing this.
In any case the Commission must retain the power of decision and control of its activities.
Regarding point (d) of paragraphs 26 and 27 on nominations, two principles should guide the nomination of officials within the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the other institutions, namely, autonomy of the institutions and transparency.
The principle of institutional autonomy is established by the Treaty and the case law of the Court of Justice.
The Commission considers that this principle is of fundamental importance in ensuring its independence in the spirit of the Treaty.
In the spirit of transparency a report on nominations of members of the Commissioners' cabinets has already been forwarded to Parliament as a follow-up to Parliament's resolution on the first reading of the budget.
The proposal for the code of conduct will also be transmitted to the next designated President of the Commission.
A more general code of conduct on the ethical principles of officials is also under preparation.
In this context I should like to mention that if the budget is adopted on Thursday, as the Committee on Budgets proposes, we will introduce a major management training programme next year which will be obligatory for every official working in a management position.
Regarding the Financial Regulation, last July the Commission adopted a working document on global revision of the Financial Regulation.
On the basis of interinstitutional consultation, where we are still waiting for comments, the Commission will formulate a legislative proposal for global reform in 1999.
The Commission accepts Parliament's request.
Another point which has been taken up by two or three speakers is the agreement on the exchange of information between institutions.
During this debate we have heard a lot of references to letters, press articles, rumours and even parliamentary questions.
Some of them may be true but many of them could also be totally false.
It is very difficult to fight against false information if you do not have the opportunity to respond.
We need a strong Commission for these tasks in negotiations for Agenda 2000.
Thank you, Mr President, for also giving me the opportunity to thank Mr Liikanen for his comments.
Paragraph 23 has not been changed to reflect the result of the vote and the words 'give/refuse' still appear there.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 9.30 a.m.
If a coordinator steps down because he wants to operate in a different way, another coordinator is chosen, and in this case I was selected.
Mr President, with regard to this debate, it was announced that the vote on the interpretation given by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on voting rules would take place at midday.
Mr President, during this debate, the rapporteur spoke for seven and a half minutes.
As you know, Mr Colom i Naval, it is up to the groups to distribute speaking time and it is common practice, where appropriate, to extend the speaking time which a rapporteur has in that capacity by part of the speaking time allocated to his group.
Clearly, a rapporteur is free to organise his speaking time and set out his comments as he sees fit.
The only thing I said was that the Court of Auditors had not given a positive declaration on the regularity of the accounts for the 1996 financial year.
I am only repeating what was stated in the report.
It talks about underlying transactions but you are talking about the accounts.
Mr President, I would like to make a request pursuant to Article 3(2) of Annex V of the Rules of Procedure.
A number of amendments to the Elles report were declared admissible, exactly 22 according to the information I have been given.
I would ask you to confirm that the amendments will be given to the committee at this afternoon's meeting so that it can give its opinion on the 22 amendments which, moreover, were tabled by all the political groups.
There are 11 from the Socialist Group, the very people who wanted to prevent us from tabling amendments on the operation, and from practically all the other groups in Parliament.
The 1999 budgetary procedure is coming to an end with the European Parliament's second reading.
We began this procedure calling the 1999 budget a 'bridging budget' to the year 2000 and the new financial perspective.
The 2000 budget should represent the basis for the new financial perspective, but the 1999 budget also needs to be rigorous while meeting the priorities of the European Parliament.
The Council held its second reading on 24 November, after the traditional conciliation, with a common approach with Parliament to the global aspects of the budget, but without making any progress on the strategic amendments.
I would like to review the various categories of the Council's reading and contrast them with Parliament's position before its second reading.
I said in my first speech, before the first reading, that I was somewhat disappointed with what had happened with the ad hoc procedure for agriculture since we had not managed to hold a serious debate in July, as Parliament would have liked.
So - to give my shortest speech in this respect - as far as Category 1, agriculture, is concerned, Parliament's position is more or less in line with the Council at its second reading.
Moving on to Category 2 - which in the financial perspective is usually called 'the Edinburgh package' - I must nevertheless say that Parliament is introducing a 'package amendment' comprising a reserve of EUR 1 500 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 250 million in payment appropriations, as well as a reduction in payment appropriations of EUR 500 million.
As regards Category 3, I told the Council at first reading that this was the 'Cinderella' of all the categories.
Some lines have even been increased by 49 %.
It is a serious matter that in Category 4, Parliament has been forced to reduce the PHARE programme.
It is serious because the political message that this sends out is not pleasant either for Parliament or the Council, but it was necessary in the interests of budgetary efficiency and in the light of the overall operation of the programme.
In this case, we are providing for EUR 150 million less than the level of funding fixed in Cannes, but the Council has agreed to Parliament's proposal to fund its priorities in terms of external actions from this reduction in the PHARE programme.
In Category 5, Parliament is maintaining its position on the creation of a specific line for pension funds.
After the outcome of the conciliation procedure I, as rapporteur, am withdrawing the strategic amendments for second reading.
However, as in all negotiations, we know that both parties are leaving something behind.
We had thought that in Vienna we would have something more specific on the table, which would in turn have made a more specific conciliation procedure possible.
Mr President, on Thursday Parliament is going to vote at second reading on a budget that complies perfectly with the current Interinstitutional Agreement.
It is a budget that will demonstrate that budgetary rigour is entirely compatible with the European Parliament's political priorities, but, in particular, it is a budget that is compatible with the interests of the people of Europe.
We are now waiting for the Commission to present, by 31 March, a proposed reform of the pension system, because this remains a priority not only for Parliament but also for all the other bodies of the European Union.
The Court needs to provide us with concrete proposals as a basis for thorough discussions leading to the adoption of measures to facilitate its translation work.
Our resolution obviously stresses the need to find alternative solutions which are financially acceptable, technically feasible and will avoid a vacuum in the leadership of this body, whose workload is set to increase as a result of the new Amsterdam Treaty.
Now that the debate on this first EU budget in euros is coming to an end, Mr President, we can say that we are satisfied to have drawn up a rigorous and well-balanced budget for the other institutions, one which does justice to the budgetary efforts made by the Member States.
Mr President, this year's debates on the budget are certainly taking place against a rather tempestuous background.
This allayed our main concerns with the 1998 supplementary budget and the 1999 budget.
A total of EUR 513 million have had to be added to the original total for Category 1.
The Council and the European Parliament delegation agreed, however, not to include this relatively small adjustment from the draft budget in the total budget amount for Category 1, but to revise the various items in the earlier total on the basis of the most recent estimates.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not entered the appropriations for security within and around the buildings of the European institutions in the reserve.
Let us not forget that in just over two weeks, 11 countries will join together in a currency union.
I have prepared an amendment to the motion to this effect on behalf of my group, and hope that it will also meet with the agreement of the House.
We would also like to see at least 10 % of the MEDA funding going to environmental projects.
If we can do this in a credible way, we shall be setting an example for the Member States and we can promote a genuine environment policy.
Finally, I am pleased that the Council has also agreed to increase the budget for consumer and health policy.
Not only is this money significant for 1999 but it is also critical in indicating the appropriate direction for the forthcoming Culture 2000 programme.
The perseverance of the rapporteur on the issue of lesser-used languages is crucial to the 50 million European Union people to whom it is relevant.
On the issue of information policy it sometimes seems as if the Council is cutting off its nose to spite its face.
Nobody is more acutely aware than the Council of the need to inform the public of Europe about the current integration process including, critically, the launch of the single currency.
Thank you very much, Mrs Dührkop Dührkop.
I would also like to thank my own group coordinator, Terence Wynn, and my committee secretariat for their help and encouragement.
Therefore, I would expect that the Commission, by one means or another, to be able to transfer and agree to the topping-up appropriations which might be necessary as far as our external policy is concerned.
I am informed that there are currently something like 12 or 13 budget headings that mention land mines.
I am told by the Commission that they have plans to bring all of these under one heading and that they are proposing a sum of something like 35 million euros to be spent on mine clearance and rehabilitation programmes.
The sum of 35 million euros, if we can keep this for a number of years, will go a long way to clearing the world of what has been an horrendous scourge for millions of people in the developing world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, I can confirm, on the occasion of the second reading of the budget, that I am as satisfied as I was at first reading.
I would like to highlight three particular reasons for my satisfaction, all of which are priorities for the Committee on Civil Liberties.
As you know, ladies and gentlemen, these budget headings were in a very delicate position because of the absence of a legal basis.
The solution that has been arrived at here is also satisfactory.
Consequently, I do not understand why the Council persists in rejecting this instrument, which is both necessary and sound.
The very fact that in the 1998 budget we have still overestimated agricultural expenditure by ECU 1.4 billion shows that there is scope for further measures here.
Despite our actually brokering an agreement with the Council in the 1998 budgetary procedure to reduce the allocation which the Commission had entered in the budget, we still have a surplus.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to add our appreciation to that already expressed for the rapporteur, Bárbara Dührkop.
Although the only amendment tabled by the Committee on Fisheries is an amendment proposing a slight increase in appropriations for monitoring actions, we would like to take this opportunity to repeat a series of priorities that form the core of the committee's actions.
As far as international agreements are concerned, the appropriations proposed for the 1999 financial year are lower than those for 1998, both in commitment appropriations and in payment appropriations.
The budgetary authority will have to show its capacity for sound management in order to ensure that the necessary budgetary appropriations are available to implement a new agreement, while remaining discrete about this amount so as not to endanger the negotiations with Morocco.
We have recorded this in two working documents.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights, my second priority - alongside mainstreaming - was to maintain special support measures for women in the fourth action programme and in the Structural Funds.
I emphasise once again that women are not a marginal group; we represent 50 % of European citizens.
This is also reflected in the new Daphne programme.
I might remind you that we - 350 Members of this House - called for a European campaign and a European Year against violence to women in a written declaration.
We in the European Parliament are keeping to our demands; we are expecting EUR 5 million to be allocated for a campaign to combat violence against women, and we are looking forward to the concepts of equal opportunities and mainstreaming being very much more in evidence in the new policy areas of employment and enlargement towards the east than they have been up until now.
As the Commissioner has already said, the Treaty of Amsterdam gives us a new basis on which to work for equal opportunities and non-discrimination, and if female citizens do not find themselves represented in the policy of the European Parliament - and, by the way, this also applies to the committees - then we shall pay the penalty in the fifth directly elected Parliament.
Firstly, the 1999 budget is the last to be covered by the Edinburgh agreements and the last to be adopted before the conclusion of the Agenda 2000 negotiations, which are being held between our institutions to establish a financial framework for budgets after the year 2000.
Secondly, a decision on the 1998 supplementary and amending budget and a decision on the 1998 global transfer have also become part of the 1999 budget.
I should like to recall that the success of this overall compromise was to a large extent dependent on the results of intensive discussions on flexibility, which we held with Parliament's delegation at the two Council meetings of 24 November and 8 December.
In accordance with Parliament's wishes, it is intended that budgets will display flexibility of this kind, and this will be introduced in the new financial perspective.
The conciliation we held last week with a number of your colleagues paved the way for the overall compromise on the 1999 budget procedure to be confirmed.
This conciliation in fact resulted in an agreement between our two institutions that there will be no strategic reserve in the 1999 budget, something which we have seen repeatedly threaten the 1999 budgetary procedure from beginning to end.
The Council thus saw itself in a position to declare itself willing to accept an element of flexibility in the negotiations on a new interinstitutional agreement.
During the budgetary procedure, but at the latest before Parliament's first reading, both arms of the budgetary authority can decide - in accordance with the rules on majority voting pursuant to Article 203(9)(5) of the Treaty and by means of a Commission proposal - to activate this flexibility component.
The positive outcome of our conciliation on the flexibility of future budgets has made it possible for the negotiations on the entire 1999 budget procedure to be brought to a successful conclusion.
Allow me now to turn to the results of the Council's second reading of the 1999 draft budget and in so doing to highlight a number of points.
When assessing the results of Parliament's first reading of the 1999 draft budget, the Council was also guided by the following principles: complying with the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 October 1998 on legal bases and the implementation of the budget; assessing needs with a view to entering realistic appropriations in the budget which it will be possible to implement; and dividing the savings equally between all the headings in the financial perspective, which means that reducing appropriations for one of the headings also has to entail a reduction in the appropriations for other headings.
Taking all these principles into consideration, the Council approved the content of the overall compromise drafted in conjunction with a Parliament delegation.
As I said at the beginning, the overall compromise on the 1999 budget procedure also includes an agreement on the 1998 supplementary and amending budget and on the global transfer.
Both the supplementary and amending budget and the global transfer allow non-utilised appropriations to be redeployed, with the result that, in particular, payment appropriations for the European Social Fund and PHARE can be increased by ECU 795 million and ECU 150 million respectively.
On the other hand, amendments proposing the opposite to the proposal of the committee responsible were inadmissible. (Parliament adopted the interpretation by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, as the rapporteur for Parliament, I just wish to confirm that the common position is acceptable to us, as is the financial settlement at ECU 112.5m.
I should like to thank the Austrian presidency and DG XXIV for their work on this. (The President declared the common position approved) Before we go on to the explanations of vote, I should like to congratulate the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and the rapporteurs on the way they organised the votes, which has made it possible for Parliament, thanks to the systematic way in which they were proposed and accepted by the Bureau, to vote on so many reports and 320 amendments in just 40 minutes!
Their national currencies will, it seems, become more volatile, and as all their economic actors will favour the euro, it will become a genuine 'parallel currency' in these countries.
We are astounded at the arrogance shown in this report and the contempt displayed for the democratic choices made in three of these countries.
If tribute is to be paid to the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark, then it is because their governments were able to organise a genuine debate on the single currency and then to respect the choice of their citizens.
Similarly, unification of monetary conditions within the euro zone will not be beneficial, or even painless, for all its members.
They will envy the countries that have remained unrestricted outside the euro zone.
It is quite unacceptable that the ECB should set up a special committee to monitor parallel use of the euro in the four Member States in order to 'help' them to join the single currency.
We voted against this report.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party abstained in the final vote on the Stevens report on 'The euro as a parallel currency' for the following reasons.
The rapporteur is unnecessarily alarmist regarding the consequences of the euro as a parallel currency for the pre-in countries.
Those states which elected not to take part in the third stage of monetary union reached their decision democratically in the wake of a process of mature consideration.
Quisthoudt-Rowohl report (A4-0493/98) The framework programmes for research, technological development and demonstration activities always lead to lengthy and stormy debates with the European Commission, particularly where they are linked to budgetary issues.
Until now, we have always been the decisive factor in allowing the European Union to create a real policy of research and technological development.
The fourth framework programme has now proved itself.
Scientific cooperation and technology transfer are organised around this unique programme that covers all areas.
This great popularity within the European scientific community must not be compromised at a time when a new framework programme is being drawn up and eleven new countries are knocking at the door of the European Union and are likely to bring mutual scientific and technical enrichment.
Consequently, I approve the Quisthoudt-Rowohl report and the compromise it presents for 1998-2002.
Scientific research and technological development have become the focal point of the economic future of Europe.
We voted in favour of the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee concerning the fifth framework programme for research.
The Left Party sees research and its results as a matter for the whole community.
Tannert report (A4-0451/98) We thank the rapporteur for her thorough work on this subject, which is of particular importance for the future of EU research.
The following points must be borne in mind in the context of this debate: The recent decision by the British Government to permit experiments on 'human embryos' is in conflict with the ethos and spirit of the vast majority of Members of the European Parliament.
Marset Campos report (A4-0455/98) In Amendment No 33, the committee considers it 'necessary that a European scientific journal be published along the lines of Science or Nature as a way of adequately disseminating European scientific achievements at world level'.
McNally report (A4-0458/98) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the report by Mrs McNally.
Matikainen-Kallström report (A4-0459/98) We would like to thank the rapporteur for this very interesting investigation into the Union's research effort in the field of thermonuclear fusion and fission.
It is very hard to draw the line between nuclear safety research and new reactor research.
Madam President, the 1999 general budget for the European Union is the last budget which will be adopted by this Parliament.
It may be permitted, therefore, to put it into a more historical perspective.
Qualitatively, this budget procedure has solved three major problems which have been discussed for many years.
Firstly, the 1999 budget is established on the basis of the new interinstitutional agreement on legal bases.
The Commission and the organisations concerned will benefit from the clarity for the execution of the budget.
The new rules come into effect for the execution of the 1999 budget.
The intense work of the Committee on Budgets and of experts on both sides has established an unprecedented degree of transparency and control in the 1999 budget.
In this area, lack of clarity can no longer be an excuse.
They will remain after this budget for the future.
The hope is that this partnership will also permit the successful conclusion of a new interinstitutional agreement next year.
Important progress has already been made: agreement on a legal basis, the flexibility element, concertation throughout the budget procedure.
It is no exaggeration to say that more progress has been made in the budgetary field than in any other part of Agenda 2000.
This makes me fairly optimistic that new interinstitutional agreements can be reached with this Parliament.
As this is the last budget to be adopted under his chairmanship, I should like in particular to thank Detlev Samland.
However, we still have a lot of work to do during spring so that the agreement on Agenda 2000 will be ready before the end of this Parliament.
Mr President, this budget has been different in many respects from any other budget I have been involved with.
The Commissioner has just highlighted the three major topics which have come from the discussions between the three institutions.
One of the reasons for this, and part of the process, is that we are trying to get Parliament and the Council to work much more closely together on the budget so that we do not again have the game of ping-pong we have had over the past few years when trying to make sure that the budget we get reflects what the Council wants and what Parliament wants.
During the conciliation process before the second reading, the big decision was to drop the strategic amendment.
Those of us who were part of the delegation did that on the assumption that, come the negotiations for the next interinstitutional agreement, flexibility will be part of it.
The Council made that statement and the President-in-Office stated that clearly this morning.
Had that happened we would have been confronted with all the consequences of 1999 having no budget, provisional twelfths, etc.
We are trying to be sensible, cooperative and prudent, and that should be kept in mind by those in the Council who think a great victory has been achieved over Parliament.
From our side it was a spirit of responsibility and good sense that helped us to make that decision.
It concerns Category 2, where Parliament set out its position at first reading.
Those who were at the Committee on Budgets' meeting last night will say that problem is now exacerbated, because we were going to go back to first reading and the Committee on Budgets did not agree with that.
The Committee on Budgets has not agreed the reserve but has agreed the ECU 500m extra spending.
Our group will be discussing that this evening and we will be taking a position on it then.
Therefore, I cannot give a conclusive statement as to what our position will be until it has been decided and until we vote on Thursday.
The debates on the second reading of the budget were extremely hectic, but they are actually relatively calm this time.
According to the most recent figures, the Netherlands is having to spend 45 % of Objective 2 commitments, 37 % of Objective 3, 42 % of the agricultural section of Objective 5a, 67 % of the fisheries section of Objective 5a, and 57 % of Objective 5b.
Gradually over the last five years the Council has become accustomed to the idea that a dialogue with civil society - where the Council's presence has always been negligible - should be promoted.
Surely all groups, including the Liberal Group, will adopt the departure from the strategic amendment.
There is a very thin compromise.
At the end of the day the Council has agreed to vote in future by a qualified majority - something that already existed.
So my main point is that on the question of the interinstitutional agreement - the new interinstitutional agreement in particular - the next Parliament must be much more careful to see what will happen.
Article 17 made it very clear.
I have always understood that during the time of an interinstitutional agreement it would not be possible for either the Council or Parliament to denounce it.
The battle for the new structure will come up again in the next three or four months when Agenda 2000 is to be agreed.
In short, the question of the future budgetary rights of this Parliament still remains in abeyance although the culture has certainly changed.
Madam President, the fact that the Council has accepted a good many of the proposals made by the Parliament at first reading and the proposal to include certain others by our committee means that I do not need to make any further comments on this matter.
I shall begin with something that was spoken about a lot at first reading: the fact that this budget, being the last in the lifetime of this Parliament, may be seen as a bridge leading to the following budget.
For the sake of a point of departure that was meant to be higher in the future and in order to prevent any need to resort to Article 203 of the Treaty, we have ended up by adopting a rigorous budget.
Apart from this, there has just been a vague agreement with the Council on the basis of an imprecise declaration of principle about flexibility, the significance and extent of which also seem to us to be extremely unclear.
I would like to make one final comment to say that there seems to be reasonably good sense in the proposal approved by the Commission to reinstate as payment appropriations the ECU 500 million from the Structural Funds that had been cancelled at the first reading by the Council.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the fact that such an important debate as the budget is being held in circumstances where I am almost obliged to speak because so many other people are absent.
In my opinion, this is partly a result of having tried to place too much political emphasis on another debate held this morning.
With the 1999 budget we had a lot of challenges and demands to present to the Council.
Unfortunately, we were unable to do so because we had to accept a certain political realism and abandon the amendment which we had nevertheless voted for at first reading in an attempt to strengthen our influence in the negotiation process and thus achieve a credible interinstitutional agreement, in other words an interinstitutional agreement that also involves the Council.
To be honest, I am not sure it was for the same reasons: the chairman of the Committee on Budgets rejected the draft because he was not satisfied with the conditions under which the strategic amendment was withdrawn, and I rejected it even though the strategic amendment was withdrawn.
It has simply accepted the possibility of a certain flexibility and also the idea of possibly using majority voting, which in fact means that it would be applying the Treaty.
For our group to vote for it, the budget proposed by the Council at second reading will have to be adopted in accordance with the terms and the amounts already set out.
Otherwise we will vote against the draft proposed at second reading.
The ad hoc procedure for agriculture, for example, originated not this year, but last year, although we have also used it successfully this year.
The results are extremely disappointing.
My main reason for doing so is because this will be the last full budget on which I shall work as chairman of the Committee on Budgets and as a Member of the European Parliament.
Always remember that the discussions on the budget are a real political opportunity in the European Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing this final vote on the 1999 budget with trepidation.
At first reading, in October, the European Parliament did some positive work by reinstating the necessary appropriations for some of the main programmes for regional and social development, fighting unemployment, preserving the environment and humanitarian aid.
In January of this year we had to use up PTE 230 billion (ECU 1.17 billion) of the 1998 budget in order to pay what should have been paid in 1997.
Finally, I should like to declare the support of our delegation for the creation of stricter machinery for fighting fraud and the misuse of public money.
The Agenda 2000 resolutions will be vital for the budgets over the coming years.
The worst thing we in Parliament could do now would be to render the Commission powerless, for example by refusing discharge for the 1996 accounts.
This would mean that our house would virtually be without a master just at a time when the crucial Agenda 2000 talks are going on, and Parliament would not have a negotiating team.
For this reason I hope that we can debate this issue just as we did the previous one, in a spirit of cooperation, for the sake of the EU and, above all, its Member States and citizens.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the Council's commitment two years ago, when we were debating the 1997 budget, was that the 1997 budget would be the last austerity budget.
Today, when in many speeches there have been suggestions of not granting the Commission discharge, Parliament is clearly in favour by a large majority of delivering ECU 400 million worth of agricultural produce into the hands of the Russian mafia.
Selling off ECU 400 million worth of EU food is equivalent to just giving the Russians ECU 150 million directly in cash.
The Committee for Budgets only monitors these small amounts.
In my opinion, it is historic because, in the course of this budgetary procedure, the Council has promised in writing, and this morning it repeated that promise verbally, that it would respect what it has signed.
Some people may be surprised to know that it is the first time in 40 years that the Council has made a unilateral declaration stating that it will respect its commitments.
Parliament accepts as a practical necessity the own resources ceiling of 1.27 % and calls for mechanisms to provide flexibility: on the one hand, review clauses for the financial perspective; and on the other hand, mechanisms that speed up the process of transferring funds between categories and mobilising new resources when necessary.
At best, they will gain the interest on EUR 500 million at 3 %.
The analysis has already been made in the press and simply indicates that there has been a reduction in the Structural Funds.
Madam President, it is a great advantage to be the last to speak because that allows me to address the general rapporteur who has returned and whom I wished to congratulate.
You have shown that it was possible to come to a sound agreement with the other arm of the budgetary authority.
The agreement holds in two ways: by means of rigour and flexibility.
There is an important difference between the Council and Parliament here.
But we have shown this.
At the end of the parliamentary term we have achieved a level of expenditure that is very much lower than the 'own resources' ceiling decided at Edinburgh.
On the other hand, in terms of flexibility, it is up to the Council to prove its goodwill, to prove its willingness to change.
Yes, there is a link between rigour and flexibility.
We have done our part of the work.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 1999 will be the last year of this Commission.
It will also be the first year of the euro.
I, too, believe that the internal reform of the Commission, as I have already said, is a priority for 1999 and I will come back to it later.
The Commission's work programme is based on priorities I have held since 1995, because they are the priorities of our fellow citizens.
The Commission will do all in its power to encourage an agreement on Agenda 2000, respecting the Community interest, by March 1999 at the latest.
I would now like to look more specifically at three points.
The first relates to our main priority, that is, growth and employment.
On 1 January the euro will come into use in the 11 participating countries.
This will mean that economic policies will have to be more closely coordinated in future, particularly in fiscal matters.
We discussed this at length at the Vienna European Council and at Pörtschach.
As far as employment is concerned, the strategy launched at the Luxembourg European Council just over a year ago provides the framework for Europe's efforts to generate employment, and this will continue and be extended in 1999.
Thanks to this strategy, the Member States can situate their efforts within a common framework.
The joint report planned for 1999 will present the first series of evaluation results and will back up the proposals for guidelines on employment for 2000.
Also in 1999 the Commission will present a communication on the systematic consideration of employment needs at Community level, as required by the Treaty of Amsterdam through the amendment to Article 127.
In the same spirit, the Commission has included in its work programme its intention to strengthen the Union's social dimension in 1999.
It will concentrate on developing policies aimed at modernising social protection systems, promoting social inclusion and combating discrimination and inequalities.
Madam President, another priority for 1999 is the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The 1999 work programme includes the integration of the Schengen acquis into Community law, with an overhaul of a certain number of legislative instruments.
The Commission fully intends to make use of the new privileges conferred on it by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I would now like to move on to the challenges for the Union presented by the changes in the international context, with the birth of the euro and globalisation in the field of external relations.
I am pleased with the agreement on the external representation of the euro.
We need to encourage the Member States to become aware of this need, and this will again be another of the Commission's priorities in 1999.
The Union must take advantage of the complementary nature of its internal and external policies.
In this respect, it has various instruments available: the common commercial policy, the policy on public aid for development and the CFSP.
It must make greater use of these, be more active and be more present on a political level.
Madam President, beyond these three important central issues, I would like to highlight several of the guidelines for our 1999 work programme that specifically represent a shift in Community policies in favour of the concerns of Europeans.
In 1999, the Commission will present a new action programme aimed at achieving a high level of health protection.-The second is food product safety.
It is now well established that this reform involves two issues.
This exercise must result in a genuine internal reform of all the institutions at the same time to ensure that they remain coherent and effective as a whole.
I will be devoting a great deal of my energy in 1999 to the reform of the Commission.
As I told the house on 2 December, the Commission needs to be modernised, and it must also adapt its structures, review its work methods and simplify its management.
However, this expansion in tasks has not been accompanied by a similar increase in levels of personnel.
It is also true that this expansion in tasks occurred at a time when management training and experience in these new areas had still to be consolidated.
And lastly, it is necessary because the Commission is a relatively young and multinational administration that must constantly improve its administrative culture.
As soon as I took up my post I launched the SEM 2000 (Sound Economic Management) and MAP 2000 (Modernisation of Administration) initiatives.
I am convinced that we will succeed in making the most of all the talent and commitment of our officials who have given so much to the construction of Europe.
The first is to undertake a more in-depth examination of the Commission's future role and missions.
As I have already told you, during the first half of 1999 I will be setting out general ideas on the restructuring of the Commissioners' portfolios and the reorganisation of the Commission's services, with a view to bringing them more into line with the changes in the Commission's tasks.
Finally, in 1999, I will draw the operational conclusions from the report drawn up by a joint discussion group on staffing policy, which is currently the subject of extensive consultations with the staff representatives.
This examination will undoubtedly involve the other institutions since it may result in a reform of the staff regulations, which obviously concerns all the institutions.
They need time and cannot be completed successfully without the support of all the actors involved in the construction of Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main issues in our 1999 programme.
The Union's legitimacy lies in providing specific, democratic solutions to specific problems.
The countries of Europe are faced with certain challenges that they cannot resolve on their own.
Such revelations obviously affect the credibility and therefore the effectiveness of the Commission.
The Socialist Group is strongly urging you to act in a rapid and determined manner on the intentions you have expressed regarding the reform of the Commission, its working methods, its organisation, the flexibility of its procedures and, above all, its systems of transparency and control.
If we turn now to the assessment of 1998, we could use the old image of a bottle being half full or half empty.
We must be fair and admit that the legislative assessment of 1998 is relatively positive, though with two obvious regrets.
The first is that when the Commission drew up the legislative assessment, it did not put a great deal of emphasis - very little, in fact - on the role Parliament played in this legislative work through its additions and contributions.
I believe that the assessment would have appeared more objective if you had mentioned Parliament's increasingly decisive legislative action, particularly since the Maastricht Treaty.
We have been disappointed in this respect.
I therefore call on you, Mr President, as the representative of the Commission, to ensure that this practice stops.
You have stated, Mr President, and we agree with you, that the main priority is to ensure that Agenda 2000 is a success.
Naturally, the discussion on the financial perspective and the future interinstitutional agreement that began during today's debate on the budget is very closely linked to Agenda 2000.
The second priority is the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is true that a certain number of Member States have yet to ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is true that some of them are caught up in the slow pace or difficulties of their institutional procedures.
That is a point that we should also like to stress.
My final point concerns what, for us, is the most important priority of all, that is, the fight Europe must wage against unemployment and social exclusion through a dynamic employment policy.
The tide of social democracy that has swept across the governments of Europe in recent years is bringing a stronger wind with it that is blowing in the right direction.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President of the Commission for the very diplomatic way in which he attempted today to examine the concerns that both our institutions have about the way we deal with each other.
The work programme that we are discussing today is supposed to be the product of our institutional consultations.
I spoke to the Commission President about this, and I think that some of the blame also lies with us, Mr Desama, because we should have kept a closer eye on whether or not the Commission was keeping its promises.
Secondly, I am concerned about growth, employment and all our efforts in the social field.
The situation in Ireland is extremely serious and unless there is some recovery in prices, many farmers will not survive.
The agricultural proposals, as represented in Agenda 2000, are not satisfactory, particularly from an Irish perspective.
It is impossible to envisage further price cuts without a corresponding increase in direct income support from the EU and the agricultural budget.
Madam President, I, too, would like to speak solely on the issue of agriculture, the Union's most important financial policy and the decisive issue in Agenda 2000.
Mr President of the Commission, when will you admit that the reform of the CAP that you are proposing is leading to deadlock?
The Committee on Agriculture has just rejected the proposals to reform the common organisation of the markets in beef and veal, milk and cereals, but until now, the Commission has refused to listen to the signals we have sent in its direction.
Madam President, our debate on 1998 is taking place in a unique context for two reasons.
Finally, it is also a year when preparations will be made for the new World Trade Organisation negotiations, the review of the Lomé Convention and the adoption of Agenda 2000.
On the first question of where Europe is going, I believe that there are two possibilities.
It talks about changing the composition of the Commission, extending the use of qualified majority voting, and giving new weighting to the votes within the Council, but it says very little about what we are all waiting for, that is, a far-reaching reform of the running of the European Union.
A new treaty which is much more ambitious than the Treaty of Amsterdam is essential and, as far as I am concerned, the Commission is the institution that is in the best position to propose one today, a few months before the election.
Is globalisation, as it appears today, compatible with a democratic European Union that is the bearer of an original development plan, in other words, a model for development that is sustainable on both ecological and social levels?
Finally, the third point relates to transparency and confidence.
You say yourself that we cannot achieve any results without the participation and confidence of the general public in the democratic model.
Mr President, in the past, Mr President of the Commission, you have promised fewer rules but better prepared ones in return, and I am very pleased with that.
Mr President, as has previously been pointed out, the Commission's programme for 1999 has the particular characteristic of applying not only to the development of the Treaties currently in force, but also to the development of the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam.
There has already been a considerable delay, which is normal in the process of ratifying Community Treaties, but it is expected that the Treaty of Amsterdam will enter into force at the beginning of next year.
As a result, the Commission will obviously have to devote a substantial part of its work to the preparation and development of this Treaty.
Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for the immediate application of all Community legislation in these regions.
I therefore believe that it is important for the Commission to include in its 1999 work programme - as the Socialist Group's motion for a resolution does - specific provisions on the application of Article 299(2) to the ultra-peripheral regions of the Community.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, allow me to address a number of issues.
I believe that it is important to record that the Commission - in contrast to the golden age of legislation on the internal market - is only tabling 31 new legislative proposals, and some of those consist of amending existing directives.
Secondly, I should like to ask the Commission - as we have also stated in our motion - to tell us more clearly why 181 dossiers are pending in the Council awaiting a final decision, and why the Council has still not adopted a common position in 85 cases.
I believe that we would perhaps be able to kick-start this process if the Commission were to inform Parliament in more detail of the reasons for the blockage in the Council.
One of the objectives which the Commission has included in its work programme is implementing the provision on transparency in the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, the legislative programme for this year should respond to the public's demands for employment, social justice and economic and social cohesion.
I would finally like to point out that this programme - a programme for the last year of this legislature - will not increase public support for the European project or the construction of Europe, and this is something we need to win.
The President of the Commission said that the construction of Europe is not an end, but a means.
The end is naturally the wellbeing of the people, and in order to fulfill that objective, this programme needs to have a greater degree of democracy and justice.
Working in cooperation with non-governmental organisations and the travel industry and with a budget of ECU 500 000, targeted and efficient preventive measures against child sex tourism were taken.
This is a laudable and tangible first step in the fight against a dreadful development, which is being further exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis in Asia.
Mr President, I cannot overemphasise the importance of the issue that has been raised by some speakers already, that is to say, the basic question of how the Agenda 2000 dossier is to be moved forward.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, this programme gives us the opportunity to consider some fascinating issues.
But we are a little worried given that all the free trade areas are coming together.
In addition, there are, of course, more technical problems due to all the rationing you have introduced, as well as serious health concerns.
Every time there is a problem, you resolve it in a negative manner.
Mr President, I should like to look at the work programme for the coming year in conjunction with the results of the summit held last weekend.
An important aim for the coming year, and one which could become extremely important for future generations, is the development of effective coordination between economic policy and social employment policy, involving all the various players here.
Social integration and combating poverty, now included in the national action programmes, are also linked to wages policy.
With social protection, we have concentrated far too long on often demoralising minimum levels of protection and minimum directives, which were often extremely difficult to justify in countries which already had quite well-developed systems.
I hope that we can continue the process we have started with our employment policy, moving forward on the basis of benchmarking and targets.
Mr President, you said, Mr Santer, that you had set the Commission a full programme for the coming year.
The Commission can be assured of the European Parliament's cooperation, precisely on this important issue, if it actively seeks this cooperation from Parliament, and if it grants the European Parliament the legal powers which we must otherwise wait for the Treaty of Amsterdam finally to bestow on us, in particular when decisions are made about the important reforms covered by Agenda 2000 - the common agricultural policy and structural policy - but also where financial decisions are concerned.
This crops up time and again, but in the future, next year and in the years thereafter, it will have to amount to something more than repeated displays - all too common in reality - of our obstructing one another's trade in petty quarrels about relatively unimportant matters; I am thinking here of bananas.
My third, final and, in my view, most important point is as follows: you said that the Commission had to ensure that its house was in order.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to confine my contribution to transport policy and, within that, to the Commission's work programme for 1999.
I should like to say at the very outset that I still clearly remember the time in 1994 and 1995, before this Commission was appointed, when this Commission swore that it would always listen to Parliament.
I should now like to remind you of this by making two points.
I should in fact like to ask you not to proceed with two proposals in the 1999 work programme.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the private economic law of the Union's Member States is increasingly influenced by European legislation.
Before taking further isolated initiatives, the Commission should, therefore, develop a plan of action which openly - but also with due moderation - expresses support for some basic principles of a body of Community private law, on which there is likely to be a consensus.
Achieving these aims is a matter not only of transferring technology to SMEs but also of mounting large-scale projects, because they alone can transform, innovate and carry forward scientific research and innovation within Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank each of the speakers who have taken part in this debate and who have thus contributed to enriching the Commission's action programme for 1999.
This debate comes between the debate you held this morning on the discharge and the debate that will take place tomorrow morning on the conclusions of the Vienna European Council.
However, as far as the assessment is concerned, I must point out - and I say this with some pride, perhaps not justified in every case, but with a certain degree of pride all the same - that, for the first time, of the 34 new legislative initiatives scheduled in our action programme for 1998, 30 were actually put forward, in other words 88 %.
I believe that we will do all we can to ensure that this programme can be implemented, for reasons that you know very well, because 1999 will be an important year.
Some of you have also raised the matter of the reform of the Commission.
I had certain dossiers on my table, such as the tourism dossier, for example.
These included SEM 2000 (Sound Economic Management), MAP 2000 and many others.
As I have already said, we want to wage an effective fight against fraud.
In actual fact all these matters go back to 1990, 1992 and 1993, in other words to a time when the Commission, as I said earlier, took on a number of new responsibilities, but those in charge were not able to monitor the management of the funds under their control.
For example, the humanitarian office, ECHO, had 38 officials in 1993 to manage an annual budget of ECU 100 million under very difficult conditions.
You know how the volunteers from our NGOs work, be it in Rwanda, in the region of the Great Lakes, in Bosnia, in China, in North Korea, and so on.
At times, the accounting rules as they are now cannot always be applied in the same way, including in relations with the various auditing authorities.
I assure you that we want this Commission to do this work thoroughly, and we want to learn all the lessons we can so that the new Commission, in the year 2000, has a number of instruments available with which it can work.
I will stop there, because you have already discussed that at length this morning.
Agenda 2000 is the main issue.
As I stated at the Vienna European Council and as I will state again tomorrow morning, when it is being discussed, I agree with those who said that if there is no agreement on Agenda 2000 by the end of March, then there will be no enlargement.
We must not underestimate all the efforts that have yet to be made to reach an agreement on Agenda 2000.
The Commission has put all the cards on the table so that the negotiations can resolve all the problems.
I therefore agree with you that before the forthcoming enlargement, a comprehensive institutional reform must be completed.
If you have read Agenda 2000, you will see that the Commission proposes a new international conference.
However, we must wait for the Treaty of Amsterdam to be ratified and to come into force and we must not do anything that might hinder ratification in any of the Member States that are more sensitive to institutional issues by making new proposals at this stage.
It is a question of time, but I agree with those who said that as soon as the Treaty is ratified and has entered into force, we will have to put forward proposals to take the institutional reforms further.
Some of you wanted to know what the attitude of the European Union, and more particularly that of the Commission, is towards the phenomenon of globalisation.
It is impossible to expand on all the problems in just a few words, but we have submitted a communication to the European Council on globalisation.
That is why it is so important for the European Union to be present at an international level and for it to draw the political consequences of its economic dimension in order to assert itself before the rest of the world.
I can simply assure you that the Commission is currently preparing for the entry into force of the new Article 299 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We have put forward a number of proposals on this subject and we must work on them.
This also applies to other initiatives that you called for, particularly - and I am in complete agreement on this point - as regards our external relations, and, above all, the Transatlantic Economic Partnership, which we need to develop.
The third point raised is, of course, employment.
The first attempt has already borne fruit.
Soon, however, the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 will give the European Union new life, putting it in a different position in international economic, monetary and political relations.
I am very confident because, as the headline in an American newspaper not known for its pro-European stance said a few months ago: Europe is back.
The debate is closed.
As you are well aware, the debates on the reports are sometimes subject to a certain delay, but we cannot afford to delay the questions to the Commission.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0713/98).
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 46 and 47 lapse.
I read or heard somewhere that someone was considering laying in emergency food stocks to overcome the year 2000 problem.
As well as that, with the introduction of the single currency next year and the changeover in financial markets and other similar situations, there is a great fear, and a danger, amongst Member States, private individuals and institutions, that not enough work has been undertaken.
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether, within his own area of competence, he has brought forward any codes of best practice which should be copied by the Member States or by small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular when we consider that in its final resolution the Vienna Council placed particular emphasis on helping small and medium-sized enterprises for the changeover in the year 2000.
Everyone knows or ought to know that this is a problem and that there are solutions to it.
Under the Daphne programme, which supports non-governmental organisations in combating violence against children and young people, the Commission encourages the establishment of telephone helplines in all the Member States; these offer useful advice and information to troubled youngsters, and can assist them when they travel abroad.
The vast majority of young people who travel across our borders for language courses enjoy a very good experience and their first visit abroad is a very happy one.
I am very pleased that you are going to tackle it under the new programme on tourism but would the Commission not consider a study of what the extent of this problem might be and how it could be effectively tackled?
The Commission is taking this issue very seriously.
Questions relating to the security of individuals and standards and procedures to be observed by educational establishments are a matter for Member States.
The same holds true in the matter of judicial cooperation if there is any question of organised criminal activity covering more than one jurisdiction.
On a more optimistic note, if it happens that we can reach agreement on a Community tourism programme, we may be able to make some contribution in the context of youth tourism if this is seen as a priority area for Community action.
As the honourable Member will appreciate, the Commission would be ill advised to pre-empt the outcome of this process, before the working group has made public its conclusions.
But it must be said that, as yet, not one single British ski instructor has been allowed to work in the French Alps.
There is a new twist: a French ski school has sought to employ 15 British ski instructors and has been prevented from doing so.
Clearly there is a terrible situation here, which throws into question our ability within the European Union of translating the Treaty into appropriate action.
The two new decrees by the French authorities have now provided a legal solution to the problem.
It is the implementation on the ground - or should I say on the snow - of these new decrees that is the principal concern of the Commission.
But we have to be confident.
If there is a problem in agreeing on benchmarks and this is an indication of disaccord in bilateral discussions, the Commission should be very much involved in helping to reach an agreement on these benchmarks in a way that will lead us out of this impasse.
Under Community law - Directive 92/51 EEC - the national authorities are allowed to impose compensatory measures but only where there are significant differences in the levels of qualifications.
If the BASI considers it appropriate, the problem could be resolved by a national court which is responsible for the correct implementation of Community law.
The procedure for selecting and employing temporary staff was reviewed on 1 December 1996.
A total of 135 staff have been employed since the new procedure came into effect.
The working party responsible for reviewing personnel administration under Mr Williamson, the then Secretary-General, has made a considerable number of proposals for reform.
We have tried to correct the problem and we are now organising new competitions both for Swedish and Austrian applicants, and we hope that by the end of 1999 the Commission will have met all the targets fixed for these three countries when they joined the EU in January 1995.
Combating this shameful form of organised crime and violation of women's human rights is a question on which I have spent much time and energy since I became a Commissioner in 1995.
Before then no one had thought that the European Union could deal with this question.
In June 1996 I organised the European Conference in Vienna on trafficking in women.
This was the first time the main European players from both East and West had met to discuss this serious problem.
Firstly, in November 1996 the Justice and Home Affairs Council decided to extend the mandate of Europol's drug unit, now Europol, to include trafficking in human beings.
By 1999 Europol will support joint investigations in order to dismantle criminal organisations involved in this trafficking.
Europol also intends to establish a report on the general situation in the European Union concerning trafficking in women.
The second important decision was the creation in December 1996 of the multiannual STOP programme.
Thirdly, and finally, in February 1997 the Council adopted a joint action in order to criminalise trafficking in human beings.
In order to support their work we set up the DAPHNE initiative in May 1997 to combat violence against children, adolescents and women.
To fight trafficking in women is to fight a moving target.
The main objective is to ensure that the fight against trafficking in women is kept high on the political agenda of the Union and to reinforce cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination, including both governments and NGOs.
The aim is also to encourage the Member States to implement fully, by the end of 1999 at the latest, their legal obligations under the joint action of February 1997.
The main new initiatives in the communication are to produce in 1999 a communication on assistance to victims of crime including victims of trafficking; to make a proposal for legislative actions as regards temporary residence permits for victims who are ready to act as witnesses; to refocus the existing guidelines of the STOP programme to include information to victims on ways of seeking assistance, and research on the various intermediaries of the trafficking chain; to launch training projects to prevent and combat trafficking in women in the areas of migration and detection of false and fraudulent documents; to advertise among the concerned target groups the possibility of support under several other Community programmes such as INTEGRA and the Leonardo da Vinci programmes; and to promote further cooperation and exchange of information on the issue of trafficking in women within the pre-accession strategy as well as in cooperation with the newly independent states.
I hope we now have a new platform for our common fight against trafficking in women and I am looking forward to continuing to work closely with the European Parliament in combating this shameful violation of women's human rights.
There are, however, two more detailed questions I should like to ask: firstly, is the Commission empowered to arraign before the European Court of Justice for the violation of human rights, countries which are not taking adequate steps to combat trade in human beings effectively?
Question No 53 by Clive Needle (H-1086/98) Subject: Increase of cigarette imports in Andorra Figures published by the customs authorities in Andorra show that 3.1 billion cigarettes were imported into that country from the EU in 1997.
On the basis of those figures, every man, woman and child in Andorra smokes 140 cigarettes per day.
I am grateful to the Independent newspaper in the United Kingdom for raising this, and it is extremely important that people are made aware of this issue, because of the work that UCLAF is doing.
In the current climate it is important to talk about potential successes as well as problems.
For the wider issue, in terms of the health debate in the European Parliament and measures the Commission is taking to combat tobacco consumption, on which I hope there will be further progress in the Commission tomorrow, there is progress in Member States such as Great Britain, where proposals have been produced by the government to tackle smuggling as a priority.
We will always willing to give information to Parliament about our work in this area.
Question No 54 by Maj Theorin (H-1099/98) Subject: Illegal immigration Illegal immigration is a big problem for the European Union and its Member States.
The Council has therefore taken steps to harmonise control methods and to increase consultation and cooperation between Member States on matters relating to refusal of entry and action to combat the smuggling of human beings.
Some fell prey to traffickers in human beings, others arrived here independently.
Even if they have no legal entitlement to enter the Union, they can expect to have their human rights and fundamental freedoms respected.
You will have heard that one of the aims of my proposal is to establish a minimum level of social protection for such migrants once they have entered the territory of one of the Member States.
How to deal with those individuals who are residing illegally in our 15 Member States is a very difficult question, particularly given that we have 18 million unemployed already and no longer have a need for imported labour.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
Questions Nos 55, 56 and 57 will therefore receive written answers.
So, Commissioner Van Miert, are your services analysing the development of Article 24 of the Directive on common standards for the internal market in electricity, which talks about a transition to a competitive environment?
If the Commissioner could answer this question, then I would know if I can protest to the European Commission regarding the issue of which Commissioner is responsible for answering the questions that certain Members have asked.
I will do this in a personal capacity, of course.
As you know, we looked at the issue on the basis of the regulation on mergers of undertakings, and it was clear that, firstly, both companies held a declining share of the market in their respective Member States and, secondly, that there was sufficient other competition left.
But even this market is now opening up to the extent that we can start to talk about a European market, and we had no problem with the merger from the competition point of view because there was still plenty of competition left.
But our first responsibility under the regulation on concentrations or mergers of undertakings is to analyse the competition problems and to base our response - in this case a positive one - on that.
But as I said, in this particular case neither the notifying parties nor, as far as I know, the trade unions made any request to speak to us.
Question No 59 by Paul Rübig (H-1068/98) Subject: Discriminatory fares The British ferry company which operates the Dover to Calais route has a discriminatory fares policy.
Therefore, for the time being, according to our information, there is no problem in relation to the enforcement of competition rules.
But in this case, there is no sign as yet - as far as I and my services can see - that this is anything more than what would normally be called a policy of offering discounts.
When the euro comes into force on 1 January and prices have to be quoted in euros, will he please undertake to make sure that this practice is not rife throughout the whole transport sector?
You mention a broader question which is a very real one; probably an even more real one in the civil aviation business than in the ferry business.
My answer is that indeed, there are reasons to launch a broader investigation about certain practices, particularly in the civil aviation sector.
If there appeared to be an abuse somehow or a kind of hidden cartel, or whatever, then we would act.
Therefore, my services are currently making every effort to gather all the information we need because, for now, I am not even in a position to tell you whether this is a concentration or an operation involving Article 85, that is to say a type of joint venture or cooperation.
But I have agreed with my services that we will insist on obtaining information very quickly from the companies concerned because I can assure you that we are following developments in the energy sector very closely, not just in Spain but also in the other Member States.
In the course of the coming months, we hope to examine all of the cases of stranded costs in a spirit of coherence and transparency.
But we are, of course, insisting that the companies provide us with full information so that we can check whether this is an example of a concentration and see whether we must examine the case, or whether it should be dealt with by the national authorities.
Then, if it is a cooperation agreement we may also have to examine it, this time in the light of Article 85 rather than the regulation on concentrations.
Perhaps this has been checked in the meantime, but we are going to examine this whole issue in terms of state aid and stranded costs.
But in doing this we must also respect the rules of the game, particularly by checking that the amount devoted to stranded costs is real and does not exceed the actual stranded costs involved.
In France, everyone knows the situation concerning EDF.
However, I will not comment on this now but will wait until I have been fully informed about the system in question.
The electricity companies are going to be able to use the money they pocket against other competitors, not only in the electricity industry, but also, for example, in the telecommunications sector, where these electricity monopolies are already evident.
You are right in saying that the Commission must be able to check whether aid given by the authorities as compensation for stranded costs is correct and, consequently, until the Commission is able to complete its work, authorisation cannot be given and, as a result, if they go ahead it is at the risk of the authorities and of the companies concerned.
I give the floor to Mr Van Miert to answer this last question in the two minutes which remain.
I would ask the honourable Member, who was quite right to raise this question, to give us a little more information, because it is not clear whether this was a case where all the economy seats had been sold and it was claimed that there were only business-class seats left.
I do not want to comment on this particular case because we have of course asked Sabena to provide further information, but if the honourable Member could give us any more detailed information himself, it would be helpful.
Thank you, Mr Otila.
Since we have now come to the end of the time set aside for questions to the Commission, Questions Nos 62 to 113 will receive written answers.
But its success depends to a large extent on its acceptance by all the citizens of Europe.
We must remember that for many European citizens the euro will not arrive in 1999, but in 2002.
As for the methods, we must bear in mind that 25 % of Europeans - I repeat, 25 % - are a target population which cannot be reached at all by means of the methods used to date.
An OECD report states that between 30 and 45 % of Europe's citizens are illiterate or recurrent illiterate: this does not mean that they cannot read or write, but that they have difficulty in grasping the meaning of a written text.
Those Members of Parliament present today, who are almost all experts, know that the Prince programme is an initiative of the European Parliament and that in 1998 we have had a heated debate with the Commission concerning the implementation of its information activities.
For this reason we in the Committee on Budgets, in our opinion on the present report, which dates from as far back as 15 June, first considered calling for an independent Prince campaign in order to ensure that we would have a continued role in decision-making in the Prince programme, as the President at that time did not accept the amendments or the Pex report.
It is ultimately the wish of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy no longer to do so to such an extent, but I am pleased that the rapporteur has included the main paragraphs from my opinion - paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 - which deal with the main points agreed on by the joint working party of the European Parliament and the Commission.
We have constant problems between Parliament and the Commission, although in the past Parliament strongly supported the Commission in making available the necessary resources.
Mr President, the rapporteur is right to highlight in his report the importance of information and communication in the context of introducing the euro.
It was the European Parliament that, very early on, pointed out the lack of information on the euro and fortunately found in the European Commission a partner to organise cooperation between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States of the Union.
Yet monetary union begins in only 17 days.
All these issues concern us particularly as Members of this European Parliament.
We cannot leave it to the private sector to take full responsibility for information on the euro.
The public sector must take on the leading role which we wanted it to have in the regions and in the Member States too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Arroni report has made it very clear that information about the euro is of great importance.
Member States will need to broadly coordinate the information they provide on the practical procedures for the introduction of the euro as a currency between 1 January and 1 July 2002.
To my mind, the choice between a transitional period of a few weeks and one big change-over day all at once largely determines the way in which information on the euro should be given to our citizens.
The problem is, however, that most countries have not yet taken a decision on that.
Euros will need to be distributed a few days ahead of 1 January 2002.
The arrival of the single currency needs a revolutionary approach not only on behalf of the institutions but on behalf of all the citizens of this Union.
The transfer to the euro is going to change a whole scale of values.
Public opinion also counts.
My group fully supports a rise in the funding levels for the Prince programme.
It is small and medium-sized firms, small and medium-sized elected representatives, small and medium-sized consumers, small and medium-sized people who are being given too little information about the euro.
I would like to add, in the case of the euro, the phrase 'between large groups in international economic and financial relations'.
Mr President, it may initially seem rather strange and also late in the day for this House to be discussing the information strategy for the euro when we are just 17 days away from its introduction.
However, we should remember that, since 1996, many costly efforts have been made to inform the inhabitants of the European Union about the introduction of the single European currency as this will affect them more than any other EU measure.
The introduction of the euro must therefore be fully understood by all EU citizens, whether employees, businesspeople or consumers, with regard to both its political, economic and social objectives and its methods of use during the transitional period and after 2002.
From next year until 2001, another ECU 100 million will be available.
Our rapporteur has recommended that the general public be among the main target groups of the euro information campaign, with special attention being given to particular sections of society and with certain specific groups in society being used to distribute this information.
Mr President, the physical introduction of the euro really affects all the citizens of the countries that are participating in monetary union.
Instead, it is important to try to initiate dialogue with the people and to provide information geared towards specific target groups.
We will be able to avoid a lengthy and costly two-track situation in the first half of the year 2002 if people are fully informed before that point.
I believe that we have very similar views on this subject and I share the concerns expressed in this House about the fears, expectations and even hopes of the general public in the changeover to the euro.
I believe that this has been proven and, in the future, cooperation will be the decisive factor in the success of the transitional period.
I believe that partnership is a vital concept because the Member States must be brought as close as possible to the citizens.
However, Mr Arroni is suggesting that we limit the Community cofinancing to 50 % of the total budget.
The ECU 100 million budget specified for the Prince line for the transitional period - that is, ECU 38 million (or EUR 38 million as it is now) for 1999, 32 million for 2000 and 30 million for 2001 - seems sufficient to us to assist the efforts of the Member States.
With regard to the public, and specifically those in vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, I believe that our information strategy must develop, in the short and long term, into partnerships with the Member States, with these groups being a priority.
We have therefore planned for specific actions to be carried out among young people and in the world of education.
However, I do not believe that it is appropriate to fix a predefined limit of 10 % for the funds.
The debate is closed.
From 1 January, eleven countries of the European Union will have a single currency.
At the same time, they will have a single monetary policy and the various exchange rates between them will be irrevocably fixed.
In economic terms, the Member States in Euroland are simply regions within a greater whole.
All this means that Euroland is quite vulnerable to economic crises which affect just one or more countries.
I offer two solutions to this in my report.
Firstly, Member States can take their own precautionary measures, as the social partners have done in Finland.
I shall be glad to hear from the Commission how it intends to keep its promise of 8 April last year that it will, before the end of this year, consider jointly with the Council and Parliament how the terms of Article 103a(2) can be implemented.
This House is convinced, however, in view of the broad support which my report has received, that this is not right.
The instrument which we are now proposing to create will be particularly useful when crises occur in Member States which have not yet sufficiently reduced their budget deficits and do not have their own reserves to face such situations.
In this respect, the question of asymmetric shocks is clearly vital.
We should therefore ask whether the euro zone has sufficient instruments to deal with any asymmetric shocks.
To do this we firstly need to reinforce the coordination of economic policies in order to at least minimise, if not prevent, the infamous asymmetric shocks.
Secondly, we must implement major structural reforms in a number of Member States, particularly relating to the operation of the labour market and the weight of the social and tax burden.
However, we must also provide a cure using remedies that involve in particular good coordination of budgetary and tax policies and possibly, eventually, a greater transfer of certain budgetary expenditure and revenue from the Member States to the Community budget - eventually.
Our rapporteur is proposing the creation of a stabilisation fund based on Article 103a of the Treaty.
The underlying cause of this kind of shock frequently lies in the policy of the country concerned.
Mr President, this report asserts that asymmetry within the EU economy will decrease with the introduction of the euro.
I view the report as one more example of how little real analysis has been done on the actual foundation for this hazardous monetary venture.
The logic of the single currency system is to gradually progress towards a Community redistribution budget in order to offset the internal instability of the zone.
Mr President, the question of whether the risk of asymmetric shocks will increase or decrease with the introduction of monetary union is one that can hardly be answered at this point.
However, it is clear that this possibility exists.
The idea of providing the Union with a bigger budget in future in order to take effective action to combat economic slumps seems to me to be completely pointless, at least for now.
The only effective means of successful intervention will continue to be the political will of the Member States.
In simple terms, it is clear that when exchange rates were involved, shocks were possible within the Member States which had consequences for the whole Union.
At the same time, we must also strengthen the means at the Commission's disposal because I believe that, in order to prevent asymmetric shocks, we must harmonise the Commission's evaluation and procedural means so that the Commission is not solely dependent on those of the Member States.
Finally, the solutions proposed by the rapporteur relate primarily to the budgetary issue.
I believe he has quite rightly raised the question of the current budgetary ceiling in the European Union.
If we do not consider this question today, we will eventually be forced to consider it because, if we want to effectively combat asymmetric shocks, we will need further means in addition to the insurance instrument or stabilisation fund.
I believe the course proposed by the rapporteur on the basis of Article 103a should be explored in order to find solutions to these asymmetric shocks.
I should like to thank Mr Metten for his efforts and for having accepted many of the amendments I tabled.
I have done so because we need to prevent a risk that might affect anyone.
I would like to take up the subject at the point where it was left by Mr Fourçans, who told us quite rightly that two of the three instruments of economic policy available to the Member States are no longer at their disposal, and indeed they do not have control over economic policy and exchange rate policy.
According to the rapporteur, the 3 % deficit limit permitted by that celebrated pact is enough to cover the operation of the economy's automatic stabilisers, provided we start from a zero-deficit basis.
As you will certainly be aware, Mr President, the prevailing interpretation of the stability pact is that public investments not covered by taxes are also subject to the stability pact's 3 % limit.
But where are we to find that 'audace' when we have all subjugated our reasoning to irrational monetarism which is leading us straight towards disaster unless we react against it?
Mr President, to speak of asymmetric shocks is to speak of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union.
The risk of asymmetric shocks is still latent and will not always come with an early warning, as in the case of enlargement.
All studies conducted to date show that Portugal is the country least likely to benefit from enlargement to the East and the one most directly harmed by its impact.
From traditional industry to tourism, and cuts in the Structural Funds, fulfilment of Agenda 2000 in its original version would make the second least developed country in the EU the victim of that foreseeable asymmetric shock.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today is the result of careful and thorough work by the rapporteur, Mr Metten, and our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
Once again, Commissioner, this parliamentary initiative demonstrates our capacity to consider the major problems with which Europe is or risks being faced and also our capacity to propose serious and realistic solutions.
In this respect, the creation of a Community fund and an insurance instrument to help countries in the euro zone in the event of a crisis in one of these countries can only strengthen our single currency and, in particular, help the countries which have decided to join.
I would add that this fund would also be a stabilising element for the euro in respect of other world currencies, whether these are strong or unstable, dominant or speculative.
Furthermore, while we may feel that any asymmetric shocks will be minor - as confirmed by the stability of the currencies in the euro zone - we cannot ignore the differences in laws and policies.
Nor do I see a harmonised monetary policy as appropriate.
I would like to remind you all that over a year ago Parliament approved the proposal I made to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that a deficit of 3 % should be viewed within the context of the whole economic cycle, not from one moment to the next.
In this way, when the danger of an asymmetric recession looms the country in question could, by means of a budget deficit, stimulate the economy and, with the surplus of the boom phase, bring the situation back to an overall framework of 3 %.
We have succeeded in preventing some of them in this Chamber.
The 1973 and 1981 oil crises were explosive events that spread fear around the world.
ECB monetary policy is not neutral, so it must acknowledge its responsibility for employment and asymmetric shocks.
With this stronger safeguard, we should be able to make progress towards the creation of the fund proposed in Mr Metten's report.
We must also be aware of the probability of these shocks occurring in Europe and, finally, what solutions are possible.
These are the three ideas which I would like to briefly develop.
There is a simple, theoretical and fairly vague answer to this question, which is that an asymmetric shock is a shock in supply or demand affecting a specific part or sector of an economic zone in a different way to the other parts or sectors.
I will use the example mentioned earlier of the collapse in the price of wood and therefore of the wood sector, which represents 15 % of the GDP of Finland.
In this category, the asymmetry clearly depends on the degree of specialisation of the country.
For example, during the first oil crisis in 1973 in principle all the industrialised countries should have tackled the problem in the same way as they were all similarly affected.
Finally, I would say that the relatively low degree of national specialisation in Europe makes the occurrence of national asymmetric shocks very unlikely.
Firstly, single monetary policy excludes any possibility of a franc tireur , or lone gunman if you prefer, aggravating the consequences of a shock on the economies of the other Member States.
The situation is therefore very different from that which could have occurred between 1992 and 1995 in the European Union.
However, the stability and growth pact also allows budgetary margins of manoeuvre to be regained by eliminating structural deficits from public finances.
Therefore, for all these reasons, and because it is accompanied by the convergence and coordination of economic policies, EMU reinforces the EU's capacity to avoid asymmetric shocks or to limit their impact by means of appropriate political responses.
I have found a study on asymmetric shocks which was carried out in 1996 by Brown University and which showed that the financing needed to offset the effects of a shock came from the capital markets in 62 % of cases and from the federal budget in 13 % of cases.
I believe that this greater flexibility will be an important element in absorbing the negative effect in employment terms of any asymmetric shocks in the future.
To give you the full picture, I must add that the improvement of the single market in goods and services, which the Council lists under 'economic reforms', will also help to reinforce the ability of the European economy to respond in the event of a shock.
Budgetary policy can be used in two ways: in the context of national budgetary policy and in the context of financial solidarity, and this involves Article 103a as you have mentioned.
With regard to national budgetary policy, I would remind you that, by avoiding excessive deficits and by fixing as a medium-term objective a budgetary situation which is close to equilibrium or slightly in surplus, the stability and growth pact aims, by 2002 at the latest, to give the Member States a sufficient budgetary margin of manoeuvre to allow a broader response to economic shocks.
Four national stability and convergence programmes, which we have already analysed and which have been accepted by the Council, respond to these objectives.
Another eleven programmes are pending which should in principle be available before the end of the year.
In this respect, I must say that nothing of this kind is provided for by the budgetary legislation of the European Union and that such an arrangement would be unfair, in my opinion, because it would transfer the burden from some countries to others, without providing a lasting solution.
This is why the best solution is to strictly apply the stability and growth pact and, if possible - as you yourself have underlined, Mr Metten - to create budgetary reserves during boom periods, as in Finland, which could be used in the event of shocks.
Finally, to round off this point, I must remind you that the stability pact specifies that a Member State may temporarily and exceptionally use its budgetary policy beyond the 3 % deficit limit in the event of exceptional economic circumstances.
The other important aspects are the Treaty and Article 103a of the Treaty.
Under no circumstances can it be interpreted as authorising the bailing out of a Member State whose economic policy does not comply with the Treaty.
The text is worded wisely.
Nevertheless, the Commission is already considering the best way of ensuring the financial solidarity of the euro zone in the event of a natural disaster, for example, and I hope to have the opportunity to discuss this with you at some stage in the future.
We will be making proposals in this respect before or during 1999.
It is wrong to focus solely on finding Community finance when the problem is primarily the responsibility of the countries which must implement reforms imposed by the adaptation to a de facto situation.
There is less chance of these occurring with the euro than without the euro and I believe that the coordination of the policy mix introduced by EMU will give the Community the best weapons to combat asymmetric shocks.
This is the direction our work must take in the coming months, now that we are just 16 days away from the introduction of the euro.
He has said nothing on that.
Firstly, with regard to Community financial support in the event of difficulties in the balance of payments - in other words the extension of the system in Article 109h to countries not in the euro zone - we are committed to preparing an assessment and proposals.
Thirdly, with regard to the most contentious point about asymmetric shocks - which I believe is a problem of substance and doctrine - namely the first part of paragraph 2 of Article 103a, analysis and discussion work has been carried out on different empirical cases of asymmetric shocks, including the development of various economic and legal arguments.
I remain at your disposal to continue the discussion in private or in public.
The debate is closed.
If we followed the Council, in other words the governments, in their negative attitude - which is all the more incomprehensible given that their statistics officers collaborated in the SLIM initiative - this would lead to an increase in the statistical burden on undertakings.
The Council even went as far as to simply refuse to adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation concerning the nomenclature.
Instead, we have chosen to keep our amendments to the two proposals for amending the Intrastat regulation.
I realise that, in the absence of a common position from the Council, the Commission might say that, for formal reasons, it cannot accept certain amendments even though it basically supports these and its opinion has not changed since 31 March.
As there is some misunderstanding among these users about the extent of our amendments, I must reassure them by saying that, in our Amendment No 8, the Combined Nomenclature is recognised as being the basic nomenclature for the classification of goods.
In addition, as regards the recommended simplification of using a six-digit code instead of the eight-digit code for identifying certain goods, as in the Harmonised System, the conditions needed in order to benefit from this simplification are being adopted by the Commission in comitology by taking into account a partnership between national administrations and users and by noting the vital importance of close cooperation with all the indicated parties being confirmed from the outset by a legislative text.
In addition, work is in progress in the context of SLIM II in order to simplify and modernise the Combined Nomenclature.
From the experience of my own country and my own forging business, I know only too well that the administrative burden arising from national and European legislation causes a lot of problems, especially for small and medium-sized companies.
The common position adopted by the Council on 20 July was limited to the first proposal on the reduction in the range of data to be provided.
In this common position, the Council unanimously rejected the Commission's amended proposal.
The Council did not mention the second proposal but merely expressed a hope that the Commission would continue its work on classification.
The rapporteur proposes introducing further simplifications in the context of the SLIM initiative.
The Commission would prefer to retain this data until 1 January 2000 when the directives on transport should come into force in all the Member States.
The Commission does not agree with this and recommends a transitional period of one year to allow the Member States sufficient time to adapt their statistical systems.
In the absence of a common position from the Council, the Commission is not permitted to consider the four amendments, Nos 1, 2, 3 and 8, which this House is proposing to adopt.
However, I understand the rapporteur's concern about maintaining pressure on the Council in order to force it to adopt a position on the simplified use of the nomenclature for traded commodities.
The Commission would like to draw the attention of this House to the development of the Council's position following the fairly recent adoption, in fact on 1 December, by another authority - the Ecofin Council - of a Monetary Committee report underlining the importance of the simplifications to be made to the Intrastat system.
I believe that this position is closer to the Commission's proposals and the position of this House and I believe that it should help to define a common position on the whole subject.
Mrs Lulling, we cannot have a debate.
You may ask a question, but not reopen the debate.
Mr President, during the May part-session, Parliament adopted seven amendments at first reading.
The English text should be taken as the original.
Last week the Council working party responsible discussed the amendments and I gather, Mr President, that it may be possible to avoid a conciliation procedure.
I hope the House will support the amendments we have tabled.
It is crazy that all the fundamental questions and all the fundamental issues of our European Union should be raised in a technical dossier of this kind.
But whenever there needs to be real transparency in the committee procedures, there is none.
It should not confuse a normal consultation procedure with the industry with transparency in the committee procedures.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like firstly to congratulate Karla Peijs on her commitment to the fight for simplification in this area.
Objectives such as creating more efficient recovery procedures in transit operations and shortening the time taken for discharge are of considerable importance to our industry for cutting down their costs and burdens, especially considering that the procedure can take up to five years to be completed at present.
We have heard a lot about fraud recently and the problems about fraud against the Community budget.
It is not helped by a lack of transparency in decision-making, which is why my group supports Amendment No 1 in particular.
These rules must be clearly defined.
I welcome this report.
The transit system was reformed in three respects.
I agree with the rapporteur that all committee-based decisions should be as open as possible.
The reform consists of legislative measures, operational provisions and - an essential element - the computerisation of the service.
The proposed amendment of Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92, which introduced the Community customs code, was presented in September 1997.
The Commission accepted most of the amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading, modifying its proposal accordingly on 3 July 1998.
The Commission can approve all the amendments to the Council's common position which are now being put forward by Parliament at second reading, because it considers them to be fully consistent with the aims of the action plan on transit.
This amendment, already tabled by Parliament at first reading, has therefore been incorporated into the Commission's amended proposal of 3 July 1998.
The Commission is satisfied with the progress made by the proposal in the codecision procedure, since it reveals that Parliament, the Council and the Commission are all keen to see the reform of the transit procedure - which is so important and, as we all know, so difficult - implemented at last.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 June 1998, after a long debate, the Council adopted a regulation banning fishing with drift nets in the Atlantic and Mediterranean with effect from 1 January 2002.
To provide compensation for some of the economic loss suffered by fishermen (requirement to adapt vessels for deep-sea tuna fishing using new techniques, cessation of activities and so on), the Council drew up this proposal on the basis of Article 43 of the Treaty.
The measures proposed involve compensating fishermen following either the cessation of all economic activities before 1 January 2002 or diversification into other fishing activities.
Shipowners can be compensated following either the cessation of all fishing activities or diversification into other fishing activities.
This year could also have been included so that it is mainly those fishermen who are fully active who benefit from this measure, as is usual.
Five Member States are affected by this ban: Spain (only in the Mediterranean), Ireland, France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
I must emphasise that the ban on the use of drift nets could cause the premature cessation of activity for certain fishermen, as the proposed measures provide for the establishment of an additional compensatory payment in the event of cessation of all fishing activity before 1 January 2002.
These investments will show reduced profitability following the cessation of activity by certain fishermen, in particular in those ports where the vessels affected by this measure concentrate the landing of their catches.
The Committee on Fisheries has adopted 8 amendments which I proposed as rapporteur.
Amendments Nos 1 and 8 aim to reestablish an equitable situation between Italian fishermen affected by the Spadare plan and fishermen from the other Member States affected by the decision to ban drift nets.
These diversification measures must not in any case produce a distortion of competition.
Amendments Nos 2 and 7 aim to allow the aggregation of the funding to enable the financing of diversification by fishermen for the period between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2001.
Amendment No 3 specifies that only fishermen over 50 years of age can benefit from the compensatory payment of ECU 50 000 if they cease all economic activity before 1 January 2002.
Amendment No 4 specifies that it is necessary to ensure that the measures provided under this decision apply only to the fishermen and owners of vessels who suffer a real loss because of the ban on fishing using drift nets.
Amendment No 5 specifies that the age of the vessels should be taken into account only in the specific case of a payment for cessation of activity.
Finally, Amendment No 6 asks the Commission to make provision for the necessary financial resources so that all fishermen who are eligible can benefit from the diversification measure.
Certain Member States, particularly Ireland, have used or will use all the funding allocated under the FIFG.
Mr President, my group supports this report with the amendments.
Now the governments of the European Union have decided this, and the European Union and this Parliament have supported the measure to abolish driftnets, then they have to do something about the livelihood of the fishermen concerned.
On 8 June this year, that is to say four years after our efforts, the Council finally approved an amendment to the regulation which will outlaw fishing with drift nets in the Atlantic and Mediterranean after 1 January 2002.
To neglect this point would encourage some fishermen to diversify prematurely and disastrously by turning to other species of fish, specifically threatened coastal species.
It is important that proper and sufficient funding for compensation is made available for fishermen to convert to more selective and appropriate fishing gear.
Driftnets were encouraged for use in several countries by national governments and by the EU, despite the fact that experience elsewhere had shown that these nets had high levels of by-catch.
As other speakers have mentioned, it has a very unusual clause to the effect that the Council should delay the implementation of this decision until the EU Court of Justice has issued its decision on the case brought by certain French fishermen.
The French Government is being extremely cynical in this case by having their own lawyers advise the fishermen on a case which the French Government itself knows will fail.
Yet we must not forget that the ban results in further economic loss for the fishermen in the countries concerned, fishermen who were already experiencing serious problems.
We must provide at least some compensation for this loss.
But the authorities and other investors will also suffer financial loss, as in recent years a great deal of money has been invested in improving infrastructure such as port facilities and markets.
Paragraph 4 of the motion for a legislative resolution calls on the Council to delay implementation of the financial measures contained in its proposal for a decision until the Court of Justice of the European Communities has given its verdict on the appeal lodged by several drift gillnet users against the regulation prohibiting them from using this piece of fishing equipment from the year 2002.
Therefore, the fishermen will be entitled to receive compensation as they gradually cease this type of fishing activity until 2002, when the ban will be fully implemented.
We must therefore bear in mind that when the Court has given its verdict on the appeal lodged, the majority of fishermen will have already ceased this type of activity and many will want to do so as soon as possible so as to promptly establish their new activities.
Not all the fishermen concerned have appealed to the Court of Justice and nor should their entitlement to the fixed compensation be subject to conditions because of the attitude of others who, on their own account and at their own risk, have decided to take the matter to the courts.
There is a broad consensus among the three institutions with regard to compensatory payments and diversification in the case of fishermen affected by the ban on the use of drift nets, for which the Council gave a mandate to the Commission at the meeting of 8 June 1998.
The Commission will therefore ensure that the spirit of Amendment No 3 is taken into account at the bilateral negotiations with Member States concerning the diversification plans and their implementation.
I should also like to touch briefly on two or three points which were raised during the debate.
Finally, several Members raised the question of the timing.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture's decision to fully endorse the Commission's proposal on the food aid programme to the Russian Federation will, I believe, also be supported in the House tomorrow.
Moreover, I believe that the Commission, the Council and Parliament share the same concerns in relation to this proposal.
It means that the operation will be monitored by both the European Union and from within the Russian Federation itself.
Mr President, the Committee on External Economic Relations was asked for an opinion on supplying food aid to Russia but, in view of the urgency of the matter, we have not had a chance to meet in Strasbourg to discuss it and adopt an opinion.
I would add that it is also in our own interest to see the political and social situation stabilised.
Obviously I am not interested in the resulting positive effect of a reduction in stocks of agricultural products in the European Union.
I would remind you of the European Union's undertaking, signed in the context of the WTO agreement, to reduce the quantity and volume of subsidised agricultural exports in the budget.
First of all, the regions and areas benefiting under the programme are listed in the annex to the memorandum, with an indication of the products to be distributed to each of them.
Secondly, the products will be despatched in several consecutive batches.
It seems to the Commission that underlining one of the conditions would weaken the others or risk giving them less importance.
As far as the amount allocated for this kind of technical assistance is concerned, the same remarks are valid here as for Amendment No 1.
It is not necessary to put Amendment No 5 in the text as the Commission has already made available the draft memorandum of understanding to the European Parliament.
Concerning Amendment No 6, this provision is already in the memorandum of understanding and need not be repeated in the regulation.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9: fisheries products were never mentioned by the Russians as products for which a shortage exists in Russia for the next winter.
Therefore the Commission cannot include these products in the current food aid programme.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
