Mr President, the employees of the company Air France have announced that they will be on strike for two weeks, starting from next Monday.
Mrs Banotti, you expressed it much better than I could have.
Firstly, it is absolutely preposterous that an official interim report from the Court of Auditors on the reimbursements and allowances of Members of the European Parliament has been available to the President for about a month, according to our information, that it has been available to the Bureau since 13 May, but that not all the groups have been informed.
The document you are referring to is not a report, but consists of preliminary observations.
Secondly, Mrs Roth, all the political groups received a copy of the document yesterday.
Mr Brinkhorst, are you going to comment on the Minutes?
Mr President, to react to what you were just saying: I understand that the Bureau would like to discuss this but I believe that we have a right to know soon what is happening.
The press is constantly attacking us in Germany, the Netherlands and in other countries.
In view of recent events in Indonesia, there is an urgent need for the situation of all political prisoners to be dealt with here, especially Timoreans and their political leader, Xanana Gusmão.
It is indeed postponed to another day, because at this time the Commission prefers to make its statement on urgent matters relating to the preparations for the European Council meeting in Cardiff on 15 and 16 June.
Preparation for the European Council meeting in Cardiff The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation for the European Council meeting in Cardiff on 15 and 16 June 1998.
It is a tribute to the health of democracy in our continent.
I am pleased to say to the European Parliament that there will be full, busy and important agendas before us at the European Council in Cardiff.
We will be reviewing the progress that Member States have been making on the single market and will be agreeing to further actions to help take us towards an effective, competitive economy which includes within it an inclusive society in which everybody has the opportunity to contribute and participate through work.
If Europe is to prosper in the long term we need to create an environment in which small and medium-sized enterprises can flourish.
There are, of course, difficult policy questions raised by those action plans: questions on how we reform our tax and welfare systems so that it pays to work and how we can make it possible for women to combine work with family.
The European Council in Cardiff will also give high priority to an interim discussion on the Agenda 2000 issues: reform of the Structural Funds and reform of the common agricultural policy; on discipline in our budget procedures and on how we adapt the European Union so that we ourselves are prepared for the enlargement for which so many aspiring candidates are now preparing their economies and their societies.
Since the Commission published its detailed proposals on Agenda 2000 in March, as the presidency, we have set up an intensive work programme to carry forward discussion on the Commission proposals.
At the General Affairs Council only two days ago we had a two-hour discussion on the presidency's report of the work in progress on Agenda 2000 and that extensive discussion, in which every Member State took part, will be of great value to the presidency in preparing a text for the European Council which can provide authority and direction to both Commission and Council officials in carrying forward the Agenda 2000.
We are very mindful that the European Parliament would like to see decisions taken on these matters before the next elections to the European Parliament.
It would be our aim to achieve successful conclusions at Cardiff consistent with a timetable which would enable a special European Council in the spring of 1999 to reach final decisions on Agenda 2000.
The Council will also discuss the progress we have made in fighting crime together, in particular in the work we are now carrying out through the European Conference with all the applicant countries to make sure that existing Member States and future Member States work together now - not after they become members of the European Union, but now - on the common problems of cross-border trafficking in crime which affect both the existing members and the future members.
So, there will be a busy agenda for Cardiff.
There will be a lot of ground to cover and I hope I have demonstrated that much of the agenda will be on practical, specific measures which demonstrate to our peoples that real progress is being made.
And that is why at this European Council, unlike most recent European Councils, at the lunch for heads of government they will have an open discussion on the type of Europe we want to see for the next century and what its model might be; on what more we need to do to create a Europe which can function and function well with 26 members as opposed to the 6 members with which Europe started.
I do not think that many people in our own countries have yet grasped the immense historic step which enlargement represents for Europe.
Very few of our own people yet understand that sometime over the next ten years we will see a Europe which will stretch from Portugal to Poland, from Scotland to Sicily, a Europe which will be almost half as large again in land area and a third larger in terms of population and in terms of consumers within the single market.
That is why it is right that when we meet in Cardiff we should find space to reflect on what that means for Europe and what type of Europe and model for Europe we can best offer that will meet the continuing vision of those who are present members and the hungry aspiration of the new members to join in the democratic family of nations we have built.
Again, as the Cardiff meeting approaches, it seems to me that confidence is being restored and is growing; in effect, the macroeconomic balance sheet is healthy and forward-looking, interest rates are down, inflation is minimal, public expenditure is under tight control, the upsurge is making itself felt in many sectors, economic reform on the supply side is beginning to produce results and the first signs of drop in unemployment are beginning to make themselves felt.
In close cooperation with the Parliament and successive presidencies of the Union - I will take this opportunity to thank the British presidency for having devoted so much effort - our institutions are now performing their motivating function to the full in this powerful movement towards increased integration.
But there is one item that seems to me to be even more important: in truth, I detect an increasing political consensus, both here and in the Member States, concerning the resources required to tackle the remaining structural problems.
I also sense the existence of a common political will to bring the domestic market swiftly to a successful conclusion, in accordance with our plan of action in favour of the single market.
I am also especially pleased to note that the incorporation of Community regulations is improving and deservedly so.
The debates planned for Cardiff will address the matter of economic reform, Agenda 2000, enlargement and our external priorities.
I assume, too, that this touches upon the question of progress made by the Community and Member States towards fulfilling the commitments they have made under the terms of the Kyoto protocol with regard to reducing gases generated by the greenhouse effect.
In addition, I am extremely glad that time has been set aside for a debate on the future direction and development of the European Union, the challenges it must face, the need to gain the trust of our people and the vision we need to attain that goal.
The debate on economic reform will span the entire range of policies needed to reinforce and maximize the advantages of Economic and Monetary Union.
The European Council will also examine progress made in terms of national plans of action to promote jobs.
Between now and the meeting in Vienna under the Austrian presidency, we have four stages to work through in order to improve employment strategy.
Secondly, we must encourage the Member States to incorporate their job action plans in their national budget.
Thirdly, we must bolster cooperation and implementation with our social partners and, finally, establish links between the national plans of action for jobs and the projects financed by the European Social Fund.
On 18 March last, the Commission submitted its legislative proposals for Agenda 2000.
All the individual elements will then be examined together to reach a decision regarding all of these measures with full knowledge of the facts, since we require legislative decisions before the new European Parliament is elected.
The initial intensive negotiations, under the British presidency, have already begun.
However, I hope that we will be able to record the existence of a significant convergence of views in several areas: the need to intensify reforms of the common agricultural policy, the need to reform the Structural Funds based on the concentration, simplification and clear demarcation of responsibilities; substantial pre-accession provisions in the agricultural, structural intervention, investment aid and administrative aid sectors, inculcating a sense of community spirit amongst all the candidates; a balanced financial framework to finance the reforms and pre-accession assistance, within the budgetary discipline and leaving a sufficient margin to finance the first new membership wave; finally, we need to negotiate a new interinstitutional agreement based on the same fruitful cooperation that governed relations between the two budgetary bodies during the last period.
Since the last European Council, the overall enlargement process has taken off successfully.
The European Commission regrets that Turkey has still not confirmed its intention to take part in this Conference and hopes that that country, a most important partner, will be in a position to decide that it can participate in the near future in the work in progress in this context.
I shall confine myself here to summarizing the encouraging result obtained during the last summit between the European Union and the United States of America on 18 May last, in London.
The political agreement concluded at the highest level will enable us to settle the trade conflict generated by the Helms-Burton and d'Amato Acts.
Mr President, when I announced my 'Less action, but better action' policy at the beginning of my mandate as President of the Commission, I intended to make it a broad guideline for our future work.
In other words, I hoped to focus our efforts - the right of initiative of the Commission - on key priorities, in total compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
This report is entitled: "The facts' and it records a very serious decline in new legislative proposals since 1990.
But this report also notes that too frequently we are compelled to take action in areas that should not lie within the jurisdiction of the Community, that the pressure on us to legislate, exerted mainly by Member States - sometimes by the European Parliament itself - is unceasing, especially in technical fields, mostly from those Member States waving the flag of subsidiarity most ardently.
In effect, if we look closely at our political balance sheet, one thing stands out clearly: it is generally in those areas where the Commission performs a motivating and stimulating function based on its right of initiative, that real progress is made.
To achieve that goal, we must continue to move forward and I feel we need to think again in terms of reinstating the dynamics of social dialogue and establishing a social Europe; fresh ideas about what we understand by the "public interest' ; new conceptions regarding the relevance of the world market as an economic reference point; new methods for incorporating ethics, science and the environment in our policy-making process; a broader view of trade, encompassing the environment and social rights, an intensification of the multilateral nature of the Union since it has always been to our advantage in the past and will continue to be so in the future; a strengthening of our ability to act with firmness.
I also believe that the time is ripe for us to reflect once again on our collective roles: that of the Commission, of course, but also the Parliament and the work of the Council.
The stakes have never been more obvious; we need to create, for the European Union, an institutional system that is better than any other in the world, in other words a more flexible and responsive system, better adapted, more efficient, democratic and wholly transparent that meets the expectations of our citizens, that can attract their interest and encourage them to take a deeper plunge into the process of European integration and, finally, a system that can tackle without delay the numerous decisions arising from the immense European interests.
In conclusion, Mr President, we need an extensive body of legislation, external relations and cooperation, which represent for the Union a genuine institutional asset in the coming new millennium.
I am convinced that the European Council in Cardiff will mark an important stage in the process towards these bold objectives. (Applause ) Mr President, at the beginning of the British presidency, the British Prime Minister called for a Europe that works together as a team.
Progress has been made on these and indeed on many other areas but I would particularly like to refer to the fact that the British presidency really has had a very real physical presence in the European Parliament.
The plans, of course, will vary from one Member State to another but it is important for us all to recognize the need for common themes among our various approaches.
Finally, as the Member of the European Parliament representing Cardiff, I am immensely proud that the European summit is being held in the capital city of Wales.
It is a city proud of its traditions but also a city optimistically looking towards a future.
Indeed, given that this summit will come at the end of a presidency which I am sure will be judged as a resounding success, there could hardly be a better host city than Cardiff.
We want a great success because, let us face it, the presidency at the present time needs a success.
So far, this presidency has done little to combat the Union's lack of influence, even on our own doorstep.
First we need to see real progress on Agenda 2000.
Agenda 2000 is important as everybody has so far mentioned.
It is important because the World Trade Organization and its negotiations will be starting in early 1999, as was agreed in Geneva last week.
Not only do existing policies need to be reviewed but also how decisions in the European Union are going to be taken in the future.
The third really important aspect, as the President-in-Office of Council has mentioned, is employment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we expect three major policy guidelines from the next summit in Cardiff.
Firstly, a political revival, a wish expressed by Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac during the last Franco-German summit, of the institutional reform of the European Union, which was totally sidelined when the Amsterdam Treaty was adopted.
Not only must this reform take place before the current accession negotiations are completed, but if it yielded clear policy guidelines quickly, it would greatly assist the Amsterdam Treaty ratification procedures currently in progress.
Finally, the summit in Cardiff must formulate policy guidelines concerning the negotiations known as Agenda 2000.
Agricultural workers in the European Union need to be placated regarding the future of the CAP and its financing.
Similarly, the existing beneficiaries of the Structural Funds seek some sort of guarantee regarding the implementation of policies pursued to reinforce social and territorial cohesion in the European Union.
Finally, with a view to the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty on the convergence of employment policies, the summit in Cardiff will need to examine the action programmes tabled by the individual Member States.
It would seem that a huge consensus exists regarding all of these matters that are actually on the agenda for the summit in Cardiff, but we note, from one Council to the next, that this consensus is not actually translated into tangible implementations that can be seen to reflect those good intentions.
So we look forward finally to a firm response to the considerable expectations of our European fellow citizens.
In January the President-in-Office told us that every new presidency brings its own new national drive and new range of experience and a new determination to make its mark.
On the economic front your agenda is substantial: liberalization of capital and labour markets, new initiatives on venture capital, a new agenda for training and employability and employment action plans.
Indeed, in its presidency, as at home, your government has pursued economic policies of which your monetarist predecessors would have been proud.
The British presidency has been bolstered by the proficiency of the Foreign Office and by its willingness to engage with the European Parliament.
It can celebrate progress in some areas like accession preparations and monetary union.
In our debate in January I reminded you of the words of Sir Francis Bacon: ' Hope makes a good breakfast but a rather poor supper' .
Liberal Democrats in this House expected more of the UK presidency.
Mr President, inclusion of the employment problem on the agenda of the summit in Cardiff tells us that we can no longer ignore the social and democratic needs that manifest themselves in our countries.
I shall confine my address to the recommendations concerning employment and growth, which mark a leap forward that we should greet with enthusiasm.
Some of the measures proposed by the Member States foster this approach.
Thus, in France and Italy, we have a commitment to reduce working hours.
To this end, we are proposing three series of measures to promote genuine competitiveness based on sound premises.
Finally, new rights, real powers for workers, their trade unions and the citizens at large must be established.
And our group intends to make a contribution by relaying the social movement to the European Parliament.
The central problem is simply this: if we want to offer ordinary people something, we have to offer them politics which affect their interests.
The creation of new jobs by reductions in working hours, a new economic policy, or tax restructuring by means of eco-taxes, none of these is on the agenda.
Mr President, the President-in-Office said that in two weeks time a very important event takes place.
Perhaps I could make a point that the challenge for us as politicians is to make the Cardiff summit as important to the citizens as the World Cup.
The people of Wales demonstrated last year that they were prepared to exercise their democratic right of self-determination and so Cardiff will become the home of a democratic assembly for the first time in its history.
I am very glad to see the President-in-Office and the President of the Commission stressing the importance of Agenda 2000.
Unemployment, and I could not agree more with the President of the Commission, is the key task which faces us.
If we manage to crack unemployment and solve it and produce a growth economy in Europe, then the whole euro project will prove to have been worthwhile.
At the Cardiff Summit we urge that some concrete progress finally be made towards the achievement of political union, and for this reason the debate must be opened on reorganizing the European institutions: certainly more decision-making power should be given to the European Parliament, but we also need to identify a body that can represent all the Member States, initially at least, for matters relating to common defence, the fight against major crime, the defence of twenty million unemployed and forty million new poor, a body which may also begin to consider how to craft the Union's foreign policy.
Today, in the absence of this body, foreign policy should be determined not only by the Council but above all by the European Parliament, the voice of Europe's citizens.
The fight against major crime can never be achieved if Europol, for example, continues to be blocked by the failure of the Member States to achieve a coherent view.
If Cardiff turns out to be a carbon copy of the other Summits or makes absolutely minimal progress, we risk having a Europe no longer made up of citizens who see hope in the euro, but of citizens who at the same time worry about a lack of political direction that gives the economy certain objectives to be achieved: in fact, the lack of political direction even makes economic recovery very uncertain.
It is not enough to say that Maastricht imposed stability and that stability now enables the application of rates which are clearly lower than before if we then find banking systems in the various Member States which operate in some cases in a way that is completely different from what we declared with so much enthusiasm and emphasis in this Chamber on 2 May.
If the lack of political union risks, because of the electoral results of one country or another, bringing back the cyclical problem - Europe exists or does not exist as a supranational entity or it is not always... (The President interrupted the speaker) I have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, I would like to begin by personally congratulating the President- in-Office on his success in achieving a code of conduct on arms exports.
This code of conduct establishes some important principles which represent a major leap forward in the EU's contribution to peace and stability in the world.
The code of conduct will also provide a clearer framework for the rationalization of the European defence industry, which in turn will lead to the greater interdependence which will make national undercutting obsolete in the future.
I would also like to congratulate him on the way he has never failed to take forward the human rights agenda during his term as President-in-Office.
Clearly the major success has been carrying forward the Luxembourg conclusions on the enlargement process.
Secondly, it should reiterate the Council and the Commission's commitments to keeping the Parliament informed of the enlargement process and of recognizing the important role the Parliament can play.
I would hope that special attention can be played to the social dimension in central and eastern European countries which is of particular importance.
Finally, as other speakers have said, we must take forward the Agenda 2000 proposals because it is very important if we are to keep enlargement on track that we complete the legislative procedures before June 1999.
Elsewhere, I would congratulate the British presidency on taking forward the Luxembourg conclusions on the Middle East peace process.
The Socialist group recognizes the tremendous efforts made by the British Foreign Secretary and the British Prime Minister to restart that process and to carry out the conclusions of Luxembourg, particularly in drawing to the attention of the Israeli Government the lack of wisdom in proceeding with these settlements and of the need to develop economic strategy on the Palestinian side.
This is another step in the process of peace and stability in the former Yugoslavia and I would hope that we will support those elections to the fullest.
I would compare the presidency of the European Union with the British Grand National, or the Derby.
This presidency has had the luck to come at the end of a long process in the construction of Europe.
The technological revolution, the globalization of the economy and the large markets demand that Member States make a great effort in the field of education and training.
The euro and the employment plans are a way of turning people's right to work into reality - their right to work in that society of prosperity and solidarity we all want to create in this new Europe we are building.
Mr President, firstly I welcome the opportunity of congratulating the United Kingdom presidency on its success on behalf of all of us in the European Union.
I should say that the United Kingdom presidency brought with it great enthusiasm, energy and a high quality of organizational ability which we all very much appreciate.
I would like to thank the United Kingdom Government and its Prime Minister for their tremendous effort in guiding the peace process in my country to where it is at the present time.
The summit meeting in Cardiff provides an ideal opportunity for the European Union to assess how best it can aid the process of peace and reconciliation which was given this overwhelming support by the Irish people and the referendum.
The Union has given considerable political and practical support to this process over the years and I very much hope that the British presidency will ensure that the important developments of recent weeks are given due consideration in Cardiff.
Recently, the Commission put forward a package of proposals which, amongst other things, called for a reform of the CAP, the Structural Funds and the entire budgetary policy of the Union.
It is important, for example, that European leaders reaffirm their commitment to the central role of the family farmer in agricultural and in rural development policy.
It is equally important that the reform of the CAP should be considered in parallel with the reform of the Structural Funds because an essential component of structural policy throughout the Union should be the preservation of present population levels in rural areas and in the relatively isolated areas on the periphery of the Union.
There should be a principle arising from the Cardiff summit that the creation of new jobs in the Agenda 2000 programme should provide a more important basis than it does now for the granting of assistance by the EU.
The situation now is that they have all done their job.
I think the other two are immensely important to the Member States, because they challenge the responsibility of the Member States and the social partners.
One last point.
This is an old saying, but its message is still relevant.
Structural reform, Agenda 2000 - Commissioner Santer, rural areas seem to me to have been treated very shabbily in this goulash Objective II.
I would like to thank the British Government for rejoining Europe because we badly need them in Europe.
In Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic still remains in situ in former Yugoslavia and he has much to answer for.
The European Union stood by and watched the genocide in Yugoslavia; I hope we will not do the same in Kosovo.
I know Robin Cook is a moral man and is sincere in his condemnation of the slaughter and ethnic cleansing in that country.
I also hope that he will raise the issue of East Timor at some stage as a matter of urgency, perhaps in Cardiff.
Perhaps, therefore, we need to discuss more drastic reductions in working hours.
Mr President, I warmly welcome the reference Mr Cook made to the need for economic reform.
With the euro area accounting for around 20 % of the world's output and the world's largest importer and exporter, it is essential that we have economic reforms within the European Union that are going to make the single currency a success.
This Parliament strongly supports an economic reform agenda balanced with the process of monetary union.
The Socialist group has identified three specific areas which I hope the President-in-Office will take with him to Cardiff.
The first is the reform of the labour markets.
Europe has 18 million unemployed and while 10 % of the unemployed in the US have been unemployed for more than a year, nearly 50 % of Europe's unemployed are long-term unemployed.
While there is far less that government can do to stop people losing their last job, there is a lot more that government should do to help people gain their next job.
The third area which needs reform is in the product market.
Cardiff is a marvellous opportunity to accept the process of monetary union and to begin the important and essential job of economic reform.
In my view it is for one fundamental reason: because the challenges facing the Union require these institutional reforms.
The challenge of monetary union: monetary union is pushing us towards political union - no one denies that - but we are in great need of a political-institutional will, because nothing in history happens automatically.
There is a resolution of the European Parliament of November 1997.
We propose a particular route: we ask the Commission to produce a document on the institutions before the end of the year, and we ask the Commission to do this because we respect its role of initiative and because we consider that the role of the institutions is fundamental in resuming the debate on them.
Mr President, Mr Santer, colleagues, there have been several treaties - the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty - in which we have repeatedly expressed a commitment, for example in Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, namely the demand that environmental policy and protection should not only be included, but should also be a high-level objective in determining and implementing Community policies.
If it is our conviction - and, as far as I know, it is the conviction of the British Presidency - that environmental policy is an important Community objective for the people of this Union, and if, at the same time it is our conviction that fighting unemployment is the most important task that we have to face, we should be sufficiently intelligent to link these two objectives.
It is no longer enough for this to appear in Article 6 of the Treaty.
I would like to see the Commission being supported by the Council Presidency, by you, Mr Cook, by the British Council Presidency and by the new German Government after 27 September of this year in ensuring that the integration of environment policy into other Community policies is obligatory.
Please, Mr Santer, please, Mr Cook, make sure that after the Cardiff summit we have obligatory legislation and that environmental policy is an integral component of all other Community policies!
Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am the last speaker in this debate but I hope that the topics that I shall address will be placed high on the Council's agenda.
Show greater courage as the Commission and demand of the Council that more competence and authority under Community law for fighting organized crime should be transferred to you!
There is a tabular comparison of the details of the use of joint actions, common positions and declarations over a four year period.
Europe's role in the world is more than just the limited and, as yet, undeveloped activities covered by the CFSP.
It encompasses the commercial and other competences of the Commission, the role of this Parliament, its presidents, committees, delegations.
It must also encompass the foreign policies of the Member States.
To do so we should use all our resources in all the institutions and in the Member States.
The period of 18 months that we are looking at covers three presidencies conducted in three very different styles with three very different degrees of experience.
Mr Spencer's party is not suggesting that we change that principle nor, frankly, are the governments that are represented in the European Union, members of whose parties are here in the European Parliament.
Therefore, if we have recognized that starting point, we have also to be realistic about what can be achieved on a common policy starting from that particular difficulty.
I am entirely prepared to accept as a broad caveat on our common foreign and security policy that we are seeking here to forge common positions among fifteen Member States who may not approach each problem with the same perspective, the same historical background or, indeed, the same pressures of public opinion.
If I might start with the agenda of human rights and democracy which is high on the agenda of our own domestic policy in Britain and has therefore been high on our agenda of the presidency, it is the case that on Monday we achieved agreement on a code of conduct on arms exports.
That code of conduct represents two significant steps forward.
Secondly, that code includes a notification mechanism by which any Member State can notify all the others that it has decided to turn down a contract on grounds of human rights and any other Member State who wishes to pick up such a contract must first notify and consult the country that first refused it.
If I may say so, I regret that it was only possible for us to get consensus on the code by dropping some of the objectives we had for achieving transparency.
Secondly, Mr Spencer refers to my visit to Turkey.
Turkey is not a member of the European Union.
There is a chasm between us which it would be important for Europe and for Turkey to bridge but we cannot build that bridge simply from one side of the divide.
I would also report to the European Parliament that while I was in Ankara I visited Akin Birdal, the chair of the human rights association, on whom there was an attempted assassination two weeks ago.
When I saw him only seven days later he was sitting up in bed, lucid and determined and expressed to me the view that it is people like him who are urging the path of human rights and good governance and open transparent democracy in Turkey and putting Turkey on the true European path.
I am pleased to say to the European Parliament that because of that robust approach we now have half the indicted war criminals awaiting process before the tribunal.
Secondly, Europe has made a major contribution through the High Representative in enforcing open and fairer standards of access to the media.
It was the robust approach which the High Representative took towards television within the Republika Srpska that played a very important part in the election of a government in Republika Srpska which, for the first time, since the end of the conflict is now committed to the Dayton process and in taking it forward.
As the presidency of the European Union, I was the first foreign minister from outside Bosnia-Herzegovina who had the opportunity of addressing the assembly of the Republika Srpska and encouraging them on the path towards ethnic reconciliation and towards implementation of the Dayton process.
So there is progress within Bosnia - slow progress, inadequate progress - but there is progress which is in part a result of the work of the European Union, of the Council and of the Commission who have responded to the election of that new government of the Republika Srpska by packing it with additional resources and aid.
The problem in the former Yugoslavia is that the two neighbouring countries to Bosnia still remain countries dominated by politicians who often do not appear to have the commitment to the Dayton process one would expect from people who signed the Dayton Agreement.
The great tragedy of this situation is that the only people who are benefiting from the conduct of Belgrade within Kosovo is the Kosovo Liberation Army for whom President Milosevic is the best recruiting sergeant.
I welcome the fact that Belgrade and Pristina are now in dialogue but I have great doubts as to how successful that dialogue can be against a background of continued violence.
President Milosevic has engaged in dialogue but that engagement is unlikely to be successful while he continues to use violence against the Kosovans themselves.
Those measures are now fully in place and Europe put them in place within ten days of the contact group meeting.
But there is also another side to our dialogue with Belgrade and that is our repeated willingness to end those measures and to offer to the Federal Republic the same embrace within the European Union we have offered to many of the other countries of the region.
Tom Spencer mentioned the Middle East peace process.
The peace process remains in deadlock.
But although everybody present has every right to be dissatisfied that there has not been more progress on the peace process, I would robustly assert to Parliament that we have never had a moment in the whole of the last three to four years since the Oslo peace process began in which the European Union presidency has been more engaged in the process.
The recent London talks were hosted in the capital of the presidency.
It is the European Union which has put most resources into making a reality of the Gaza airport and it is the European Union and European companies which are investing most in the Gaza industrial estate.
If we can get the breakthrough on the question of the further redeployment it will be the European Union that will be the leading party in making sure that both those interim agreements are up and running with very real value to the economy of Palestine.
Similarly we can claim credit for the fact that we have achieved a very successful summit with the United States two weeks ago with a very real breakthrough of immense importance to Europe in that the United States administration has signed with us an agreement on sanctions legislation which explicitly rejects extraterritoriality which is of great importance to us.
On Africa, as recently as last Monday we adopted a common position within the General Affairs Council which stresses our commitments to good governance, human rights and development.
There have been other areas where I could have wished that we could have achieved a more robust and a more united approach.
I will be frank with the European Parliament and say that, although I welcome the fact that, on Monday we were able to get a clear statement condemning the recent Indian nuclear tests, it would have been better if that statement had been backed up by a more robust set of measures to give substance to our words.
We believe they will fuel regional tensions and we believe also that it would be far better for the security of India and the other countries of the subcontinent if we could find a solution to Kashmir which would be much more productive for an easing of tensions within the subcontinent than any amount of nuclear tests by either side.
To sum up, given the difficulties and given the realities, we have made very real progress towards achieving a common foreign and security policy which is having a marked impact on the world outside.
I want to close by saying that as we approach enlargement, we should also recognize that not only will that enlarged Europe offer us a capacity for more prosperity, it will also offer us more capacity for more influence in the world.
One of the things we must do is make sure that we use that power to reinforce and support the values of the European Union and the values expressed by the robust democracy of the European Parliament.
What has been fascinating in the recent Asian financial crisis is that the countries who have been best able to respond to financial pressure have been those countries with the most transparent and accountable systems of government and freedom of speech.
Conversely, those countries that have been more reluctant to share power with their people, to share knowledge with their people, to share liberty with their people have found themselves having most difficulty in responding to the pressure of financial markets.
There is no longer a tension between those objectives of promoting our values and promoting our prosperity.
If we achieve that we will have achieved a common foreign and security policy in which we can all take a common pride.
It is commonplace to say that the European Union does not have a foreign policy, despite the many rhetorical statements and statements of hope which are often made; but the Presidency of the "Foreign Affairs' Council tells us that significant progress has been made on a number of points, underlining the role of the European Union.
As a Member of this Parliament, I believe that we must hope that foreign policy becomes a constant and common theme of all the political forces in the next European elections.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for that extensive report.
Amsterdam recognizes, in a way that Maastricht did not, that we are now operating in a completely new security situation following the end of the Cold War which requires broader instruments and broader measures to maintain European and world security.
In this debate we should really be looking at the implications of those changes and how we can maximize their effectiveness so that some of our concerns about how the CFSP has operated in the past will not be replicated in the future.
In particular, I would hope that the Amsterdam Treaty will mark a point where we stop becoming obsessed by the harmonization of the process and become rather more concerned about the effectiveness of the outcome.
It is not whether there is a common foreign and security policy worth its name that exercises my constituents, it is whether or not we are able to achieve peace and stability on the European continent.
The existence of a High Representative who will be able to deal with the day-to-day issues and the establishment of common strategies will enable us to start to have a more coherent approach.
But the British Army, relative to its size, is now more heavily committed than at any time since the Second World War.
One area where we need to move forward is the link between the Council and the Parliament.
This Parliament, in its approach to Algeria, and to Albania, in the establishment of the conflict prevention network, and in its approach to the interinstitutional agreement on the financing of CFSP, has always shown that it is capable of developing a mature dialogue with the Council and the Commission.
I would like to deal with two items, both from the viewpoint of my group and from the viewpoint of the Committee on Development and Co-operation.
The rapporteur stressed this in his report, but it continues to be the case that we come up against unpleasant surprises in this area.
It has been a source of some regret to me that the Council Presidency has not now dealt with some points in the report which are essential in my view.
In the interests of brevity, I shall do no more than quote the numbers, namely paragraphs 10, 14, 15 and 17: these are the questions that need to be addressed.
Bearing in mind that the common foreign and security policy is at a transitional stage and that foreign policy differs in nature from the other policies of the Union, he stresses - and he emphasized this in his speech earlier - the need for a common, rather than a single foreign policy which also highlights the role of the European Parliament, a role which is the subject of a great deal of discussion but which has yet to meet our expectations.
I merely wish to say that the report examines all the crucial questions which occupy the Union and that, generallyspeaking, our group as a whole supports the report, with just a very small reservation of minor significance as regards the idea of converting the Commission's offices abroad into embassies.
The Council does not seem exactly prepared to make active use of the instruments of Community foreign policy.
What was achieved in Maastricht as the great step forward to a real common policy in that area has turned out to be a damp squib.
The figures in Mr Spencer's excellent report speak volumes.
The number of Community actions even decreased in comparison with the previous year.
Last year was also the year of Agenda 2000.
The right of veto could set us back even further.
Mr President, in a process of transition towards a new world order characterized by unipolar attitudes and globalization, unfortunately the European Union is still not up to it.
And the matter of the International Criminal Court is still pending.
Personally, I think this understanding goes against our own interests and does not abide by the principles underlined so many times by this Parliament and the Member States themselves.
I think the report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy is along those lines.
Yet I think that the answer from Mr Cook contains a large element of truth, in that the core problem is a lack of political will among the Member States actually to achieve a common foreign policy.
Mr President, the debate on the common foreign and security policy for 1997 evoked some quite contrasting opinions.
In effect, and this is my second comment, we have scant reason to congratulate ourselves on the development of the CFSP since last year.
Indeed, Mr Spencer deplored this situation in his address.
Many statements were made but few common positions and actions were pursued.
With regard to the Commission, we are still waiting for it to advise us of the document relating to the strategy to be adopted towards Turkey, which we have now been awaiting for some years.
In fact, it is all a question of political will, others have said this and I would like to stress the point, nothing important will happen if we do not want it to.
Mr President, the annual report on progress achieved in implementing the CFSP, irrespective of those who drafted it, relates less to an assessment of the specific results of actions conducted in this context than the progress achieved towards promoting a shared Community responsibility, gradually eroding the intergovernmental nature of the CFSP as defined in the treaties, whereas the latter offers the only opportunity to exist and is the only measure of its effectiveness, as we point out in our Amendment No 10.
No, the only genuine progress worth mentioning must be freed of any link with an individual Member State.
So the report prefers to linger on the major breakthroughs achieved by the Amsterdam Treaty which are, in its opinion, the shared Community responsibility for operational expenditure on the CFSP and the ability to take certain foreign policy decisions on a majority vote and, under that impetus, to advocate the institution of a common European diplomacy, beginning with the conversion of the Commission delegations into genuine diplomatic representations of the Union.
On this unambiguous basis, close cooperation could be possible between the individual services and might prevent damaging confusion arising in the host countries.
With regard to Yugoslavia, I appreciate the way in which he pointed out our sluggish response to the problem.
I myself have helped house more than 300 orphans from Croatia and Bosnia with the help of the Christian solidarity group I chair.
But the problems existing in Israel and Palestine are closely related to those in that very country.
We have been told that the Syrian president Hafez-el-Assad is to arrive in France in July.
A year of transition in the sense that in Amsterdam new elements were added to the Treaty which would bring about changes in the foreseeable future to the effectiveness of the foreign policy pursued by the Union.
The picture that emerges from the reports shows that further improvements are needed on many points.
I refer here in particular to the CFSP in the wider sense and have in mind the policy that has been and is being implemented in respect of, for example, enlargement of the European Union, which is also an important area of external policy.
I would also mention the initiatives in the field of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, the deepening of cooperation with Russia, the Ukraine and other CIS countries, attention to the Baltic region and the regional approach to countries of South-Eastern Europe.
The Commission has also produced, among other things, communications on relations with China and the new Trans-Atlantic agenda.
No doubt a common position has been adopted on the prevention and resolution of conflicts in Africa, but the individual disputes in that area, with often terrible humanitarian consequences, perhaps do not feature sufficiently in the deliberations of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
But this time too it has to be noted, just as last year, that the Union is still in fact failing to react adequately when it comes to acute crisis situations.
When prompt decisions need to be taken, national reflexes often take over or, at most, consultations on the strategy to be pursued take place in a limited framework, that is, involving a small number of Member States.
The appointment of a Mrs or Mr CFSP, who would bring more continuity and cohesion into our external policy, may indeed be a major step forward.
The establishment of planning and analysis capacity, drawing upon the combined knowledge and information of the Member States, the Commission and the Western European Union, may certainly represent value added.
I do entertain a certain optimism in my hopes for the new approach based on the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is an approach capable of promoting greater involvement of all the Member States, hence offering scope for the development of a broader support base for a common foreign policy.
A major contribution to this support base will be provided, and I emphasize this, by the European Parliament, not only by holding debates on current political situations and adopting resolutions, but also by being directly involved.
The common monetary policy will undoubtedly have a positive effect on other policy areas.
Mr President, first of all I want to welcome Mr Spencer's report.
Allow me to contribute to this topical debate by saying that I agree with the President-inOffice of the Council that we really are very different, with different histories, and sometimes we are engaged in disagreements, but the fact is that there is a major contradiction between foreign policy and what we are doing in other fields.
I think there is still time, not by changing the Treaty of Amsterdam but by trying to improve our relations.
So I welcome Mr Spencer's proposals in this respect.
The lack of an inter-institutional agreement on the right of the Parliament to be informed and consulted is also a weakness.
Given the major foreign policy challenges of the European Union resulting from the enlargement process, the citizens of Europe must be allowed to participate in this process through the involvement of the European Parliament, not in order to throw a spanner in the works but to strengthen the acceptance of enlargement in Europe.
It is important for the EU not only to speak politically with one voice but also to have available the necessary security policy instruments in order to take peace-keeping or peace-making measures, for the purposes of crisis prevention, whether it be in Albania or Kosovo.
Given this democratic strength, we must demand a greater role for the Parliament to contribute to giving the European Union an authentic foreign policy which, today, as we are all aware, is lacking or is completely insufficient.
The code of conduct will enhance the effectiveness of the common foreign and security policy.
On the operation of the CSFP in 1997, it is fair to note that there have been a number of successes including democratic consolidation in central and eastern Europe.
The creation of a policy planning and early warning unit and the office of the High Representative, outlined in the Amsterdam Treaty, and already mentioned this afternoon will help improve the visibility of the CSFP.
This is necessary to make the CSFP, the Petersberg Tasks mentioned by the Commissioner and the European security and defence identity a reality.
There is an abundance of talkative well-wishers within the Union; the Council issued 124 declarations during 1997 on foreign policy.
If too much time is consumed by secondary matters there is less time for crucial issues like enlargement and the partial inability to act.
The Spencer Report clearly shows that there is almost no progress in the foreign policy field.
As far as the visibility of our foreign policy is concerned, I would like to emphasize that, even in the areas where we do arrive at a common foreign policy, it is often not really visible to the population of the countries concerned.
My second remark concerns the diplomatic service.
But I believe that this is intolerable for our common foreign policy, and I ask the representatives of the Commission, the Commissioner is here now, and you as well, Mr President of the Council, to look to ensure that greater efficiency is applied in carrying out our interests even in those areas in which we have a common foreign policy.
We cannot celebrate the abolition of apartheid in Africa, only to tolerate it being created at home in a corner of Europe.
There are immense problems in the world and there are some severe cases of conflict.
Secondly, I would also counsel colleagues against a modern form of imperialism by thinking that the solutions that we ourselves decide are the right solutions in Europe are necessarily acceptable to those who are involved in conflict in other continents of the world.
We have an obligation to offer our best offices to assist them in finding a solution and to take measures against those who willfully and irresponsibly prolong conflict or prolong violence.
Within those two objectives of seeking to achieve a resolution of conflict and to deter people from the use of violence as a means of resolving conflict, we should ourselves find a common position among our countries.
That will not always produce the solution but we certainly have an obligation to find that common position.
I would ask the Members of the European Parliament, whilst they are perfectly entitled to demand a common concern and common action from the Council, to recognize that will not necessarily produce outcomes and will certainly not produce outcomes that will be acceptable in the immediate short term.
Colleagues within the European Parliament can go back to Member States to make sure that they are achieving all possible speed in making sure that they do ratify.
If other Parliaments achieve the same timescale, we can achieve ratification within the next few months and that will give a legal basis to these steps forward in common foreign and security policy.
I end with one plea to all Members, I have listened with great interest to a number of speeches this afternoon demanding a common foreign and security policy and condemning the Council for lack of political will in achieving it.
We will never get a common foreign and security policy by one nation demanding that the rest of Europe adopt their common foreign and security policy.
It will require trade-offs between us and if we are going to achieve it our best prospect of achieving it is if we go into it openly recognizing that all countries are going to have to work for the common good and at times are going to have to abandon their own national positions in order to do so.
Sometimes, and my own country reserves that right, we will have to say no we cannot abandon this particular national perspective because it is too important.
That makes it difficult, of course, to oppose a common foreign and security policy but I would submit to Parliament that it is also an essential part of making sure that we get the popular agreement and the popular support for the legitimacy of the European Union.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
The best way for the European Union to help South Africa is to allow South Africa greater opportunities for trade and economic development that will help that country to heal the divisions in its society caused by so many years of hatred and oppression.
I also believe that South Africa has the potential to be one of the catalysts for growth and development in Africa as a whole.
Many of the European Union's commitments which I mentioned earlier have already been fulfilled.
One undertaking we made was to offer South Africa qualified accession to the Lomé Convention and I am pleased to say that this accession will finally enter into force on 1 June now that it has been ratified by all Member States.
I look forward to South Africa's full participation in the political dialogue between the ACP and the European Union that lies at the heart of the Lomé relationship.
In terms of aid, the European Community has committed substantial development assistance of over ECU 100m per year to South Africa through the European programme for reconstruction and development which will continue at least until 1999.
In the last few months we have come a long way but I believe that there is a political will to go substantially further before the end of June.
Indeed, on 30 March the General Affairs Council asked Coreper, together with the Commission, to examine options for improving the European Community offer.
The presidency has remained in close touch with the South Africans throughout as well as working closely with the Commission and other Member States.
I am encouraged by the repeated statements from South African ministers of their determination to conclude an agreement.
Any agreement will also have to meet the concerns of both sides about their offensive economic interests, for example in the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Naturally, taking account of Community sensitivities and economic interests remains a key objective for our negotiators.
Both the European Union and South Africa have repeatedly made clear that the concerns of those countries will be taken into account during the negotiations.
The European Union/South Africa Agreement must be positive for the whole region.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank honourable Members for the interest they have shown in the Council's efforts to reach an agreement with South Africa.
In particular, I would like to thank members of the delegation for relations with South Africa whom I met earlier in the presidency and whose expressions of support for the negotiating process have been extremely welcome.
I hope all honourable Members will continue to support these efforts during the critical weeks to come and in the future when the final agreement will require the assent of this body.
The European Union will have a further opportunity to show the importance it attaches to relations with South Africa at the European Council in Cardiff when President Mandela will be having lunch with the assembled heads of state or government.
Mr President, it will soon be three years since we launched an ambitious set of negotiations with the new South Africa, after the Union had set itself a unique goal: that of establishing a long-term framework for cooperation with this important partner, that would underpin its historical transition to democracy and reflect the dual nature of its economy.
At the ACP/EC Council of Ministers in Luxembourg, a special protocol was signed which gave South Africa qualified access to the Lomé Convention.
Last month we had our 18th round of negotiations and a further round is planned for 10 and 11 June.
At several points the gap between the EU and South Africa remains to be bridged.
Firstly, a few problems remain on non-trade issues, notably on the wording of our proposed non-execution clause and on the question of the future financial resources that will be available for development cooperation with South Africa.
No financial amounts will be mentioned in the agreement, but the Community is called upon to give the political reassurance that financial assistance to South Africa will indeed be continued beyond the year 2000.
Finally, some real obstacles need to be resolved in the trade sector in order to arrive at an agreement with South Africa that meets the principles which the Community considers essential, and to which I will refer briefly.
The first principle is its full compliance with WTO requirements.
As you know, it is widely understood that a free-trade agreement should cover not less than 90 % of total trade between the parties in order to avoid possible interpretative discussions in the context of the World Trade Organization.
The current EU offer covers 89 % of imports from South Africa.
The South African offer proposes to liberalize 81 % of its own imports from the European Union.
But we need to move in this direction while bearing in mind the two principles of reciprocity and asymmetry which underpin our trade talks.
The trade agreement with South Africa must be coherent with existing European Union policies such as the European Union's common commercial policy and, in particular, the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy.
South Africa is the first case in the Union's history of a preferential agreement where the objective of free trade also applies to agriculture.
The bulk of the European Union's agricultural concessions to South Africa are scheduled to begin after 2003 or 2005, so that they can dovetail with progress in the CAP reforms.
Tariff concessions are also envisaged on fisheries products but they remain conditional upon the progress achieved in the negotiations for a separate fisheries agreement.
Our agreement with South Africa must also be consistent with the European Union's existing external agreements, with particular attention to Mediterranean countries and the countries of the ACP group.
Fine-tuning will be necessary in order to protect the key export interests of these countries at the European Union market, but also to assure that the terms of SA access to the EU market is comparable with that of countries in a similar position.
Finally, the fourth principle is that we must have a strong developmental dimension, for the benefit of South Africa and its neighbours.
It is our definite objective to ensure that the EU/SA agreement will have a positive developmental impact not only for South Africa itself, but also for the southern African region and the ACP group at large.
I would say that the answer is in political commitment informed by sound economic analysis.
The political commitment is there.
First, there are benefits to accrue to the BLNS countries - Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland - the four neighbours of South Africa which belong to the South Africa Customs Union, SACU.
Second, there will be benefits for the SADC region - the broader circle of 14 countries covering the whole of Southern Africa.
Job creation and an investment drive in the region are expected to be the main positive effects of our free trade agreement with South Africa, and will be enhanced by a more intense economic cooperation.
The principles which guide the Union in its negotiations with South Africa give no ground for controversy.
I hope our Member States will join us in expressing these views and if this is so in Cardiff, I am confident we will succeed very soon.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner and congratulate the UK presidency on the clear commitments they have made to these trade and development talks.
I would also like to thank the Minister of State himself for his willingness to prioritize this matter with us in the European Parliament.
This is a very worrying delay in a very difficult process.
However, in the light of the South African negotiating team's willingness now to put forward a new - and significantly improved - offer of possibly 85 % product coverage, does the Council anticipate that there will be commensurate adjustments coming from the Commission in the negotiations on our side?
The President-in-Office may recall that in January I asked him in Strasbourg if it was possible that we could invite President Mandela to Cardiff to sign an agreement.
Mr President, I also want to have a more global approach to this problem and step back somewhat from the details of the negotiations.
When South Africa, after a long, dark period of apartheid, achieved a very honourable return to democracy the Western World rang with laudatory declarations and promises for the future of the country.
The major problem, however, is in the trade agreement, which has been dragging on for three years now.
There is 40 % unemployment in the country, especially among young people.
It represents a grave danger for stability and perhaps even for democracy in that country.
Of course South Africa has also had problems.
We think that when President Mandela comes to Cardiff - I have had the pleasure of meeting President Mandela several times - that generous gesture must be made to him.
We want to reach out a hand to Mandela and we want South Africa to be able to conclude good agreements with Europe and thereby gain a chance to develop its economy.
It is clear that any agreement will have far-reaching implications, not just for our future relationship with the Republic of South Africa but also with its neighbouring countries.
I would like to express my full confidence in Commissioner Pinheiro and his team of negotiators who I know will make every effort to conclude an agreement in line with the negotiating mandate they have been given by the Council of Ministers; a mandate which did not reflect the public statements or commitments given by heads of state or government to President Mandela which, of course, raised very highly the level of expectations in South Africa.
In April the Commission officials put forward a series of proposals which would allow a level of openness of 95 %, a significant improvement on previous European proposals.
I would also like to take this opportunity to say in my capacity as chairman of Parliament's delegation for relations with South Africa, that I and my delegation colleagues have had extensive discussions with South African government ministers and representatives of NGOs concerning the European programme for reconstruction and development in South Africa.
I will conclude by inviting the Commission to submit a proposal for the continuation of the EPRD to Parliament and the Council as quickly as possible for our consideration in good time before the end of the present programme.
Exclusion of 45 % of agricultural products is in conflict with the spirit of that approach.
The Union must make a generous gesture.
I should like to hear from the Council and the Commission whether more attention can be devoted in the aid-giving process to the security aspects of development.
Mr President, the advancement and the conclusion of negotiations between South Africa and the Union marks, in our view, a vital step forward.
The stakes, as the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us, consist in consolidating the human and democratic progress achieved in that country to contribute to a development generating business and jobs and to promote, through South Africa and its extensive influence throughout southern Africa, stability, peace and the future development of an entire part of the African continent.
To this end, we hope that the next meeting between President Mandela and European Union leaders may record not only further advances in the negotiation process, but also the ability to bring them to a conclusion.
To achieve this, the Commission and the Council must provide evidence, as their representatives have just confirmed, of the generous spirit that spurs European governments forward in their relations with South Africa and provide a measure of the mutually advantageous consequences that might derive from the furtherance of economic relations between the European Union and South Africa.
Of course, the promotion of interactive relations with South Africa must not cause us to sacrifice a production sector in the Union, particularly agriculture, which too often serves as a common currency in agreements between the Union and Third World countries.
But in this case, the problems are not comparable.
To conclude, I would say that our co-development and solidarity actions should be expressed through other instruments of the Union, such as direct financial aid or the Lomé Convention.
With this in mind, I would hope that the Commission and the Council might seek in the coming weeks to conclude an economic agreement which would reflect the support of the people of Europe for those who conquered apartheid.
Madam President, I would like to express the grave concern of my group over the state of the negotiations between the Union and South Africa.
Years ago the European Parliament had already formulated very precise proposals taking account of the legacy of apartheid and of the need for regional integration, and making a clear appeal for asymmetry for the benefit of South Africa.
The Union proposals that are still on the table make no response whatsoever to the demands which had been very clearly formulated by the European Parliament.
I would like to focus attention on four points.
Finally, the point of loss of income from customs revenue, for Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland: no satisfactory proposal is currently on the table from the European Union.
Madam President, when South Africa achieved the impossible and had a peaceful transition to democracy, the whole world applauded the inspiration which President Mandela gave us.
Madam President, it is regrettable that no real progress has been made in the important negotiations between South Africa and the EU on trade policy.
For more than three years South Africaʼs democratic government has had to fight against a discriminatory trade policy on the part of the EU.
Nevertheless, some countries are pursuing a protectionist policy with regard to products such as wine, fish and agricultural produce.
There is a broad-based political movement that is resolutely fighting to create a new South Africa - something which none of us who for many years worked in the antiapartheid movement dared even to dream about.
It is especially important that the EU should support this young democracy in its battle for peace and stability and that it should help to increase the prosperity of the country.
Commissioner Pinheiro said that the need was for a political commitment informed by sound economic analysis.
In the context of up to 50 % unemployment, the impact of those job losses is clearly disastrous.
If the EU had been more forthcoming three years ago, this might have been avoided and those jobs saved.
There are also as the President-in-Office I am sure knows, serious problems with regard to dairy products and the South African Government needs more time to conclude a regional strategy before it opens its markets to further imports of subsidized products from the EU.
I should say in conclusion and with regard to Mr Wijsenbeek's remarks about the problems in the Council, that if some of the Members here had been able to convince their own national governments of this attitude we might be having fewer problems now.
It is at least heartening that this House is united.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union shares in the responsibility for the democratic and economically prosperous development of South Africa.
However, with 373 million consumers the European Union is also an exceptionally important import market which should not be subject to any protectionist barriers, and certainly not in relation to developing countries which are dependent on access to world markets and which urgently need the income from exports in order to deal successfully with their transformation processes.
South Africa also urgently needs a trade policy outlook in order to secure sustainable development in peace and stability.
When they meet him in Cardiff, can European leaders look President Mandela in the eye and say we have fulfilled that promise?
Also, parliamentarians from the SACU countries recently presented their written submission to Commissioner Pinheiro and to the UK presidency.
Finally, until this proposed free trade agreement is acceptable to our parliamentary colleagues in South Africa and in the SACU countries, I, for one, will consider that this proposed agreement is not acceptable and I would urge this House to vote the same way.
One thing I would like to say is that I am impressed by the sense of priority given to this issue from all quarters in this Parliament and to the need to conclude a trade agreement.
It is very important to have that bedrock of support.
The starting point is that there needs to be more flexibility on all sides if negotiations are to proceed more swiftly to a conclusion.
In the event that more flexibility is shown by the South Africans - and I hope that will be the case - on the basis of the Council discussions on this matter at an earlier stage this year the Commission has some flexibility to be able to respond to any initiative which might be forthcoming from our South African colleagues.
On the matter of the South African Summit and President Mandela's visit, I would think that all of us would very much welcome that visit in the broadest political context.
I agree that it would be icing on the cake but the importance of President Mandela's visit is that it can act as a vital spur to us all to proceed as swiftly as possible through the issues, not making concessions where we cannot make concessions and not ignoring issues which need to be addressed.
Let me be clear that the British presidency has been extremely important and of great assistance in pushing forward this dossier in a manner which I would like to emphasize publicly.
Having said that, I should like to touch upon two or three points which might be important.
If we have our meeting on 10 and 11 June, there is still a possibility, if we work hard, of reporting to Coreper.
We must do our utmost in order at least to give the British presidency a broad draft of what we would be seeking a blessing for in Cardiff.
I have consulted my colleagues who have been more involved in the negotiations and they are prepared to work 24 hours a day if need be in order to push it as far as possible and give the British presidency a chance.
As regards wine, imports from South Africa have increased 150 % even with the current tariffs so you will understand that having excess wine production in Europe there is some concern about liberalizing the market.
We are talking about serious issues and we have to be coherent in the different aspects of our policies.
I sincerely hope the Council will approve what we proposed which is a significant step forward as regards the European proposal.
Many thanks, Commissioner Pinheiro.
I have received six draft resolutions in accordance with Article 37 paragraph 2 .
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
A4-0193/98) by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm on behalf of the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Commission's Recommendation for the Broad Guidelines of the Economic Policies of the Member States and the Community (drawn up in conformity with Article 103 (2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community (COM(89)0279 - C4-0291/98)).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the broad economic policy guidelines ensures proper transparency and participation in relation to the correct framework for the management and direction of the euro and the first steps and guidelines for monetary union.
The broad economic policy guidelines are essential for defining the European dimension of economic and monetary policy, as demanded by monetary union and the euro.
The report I have the honour of defending before the honorable Members expresses a broad consensus on the part of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where it was approved virtually unanimously with no vote against.
The report emphasizes and respects the prime objective of maintaining price stability, but it also gives important indications about aspects essential to orienting the European economy and guaranteeing steady growth with high employment levels.
Social security benefits must be maintained, but consideration has to be given to their funding, based on economic growth itself and on appropriate agreements between the economic and social players, so that these agreements can offer positive results thanks to fruitful social dialogue.
The broad economic policy guidelines we are discussing today will be much less discretionary in character in the period after 1 January 1999, when the euro and European monetary policy are in place.
All countries of the euro Eleven must go along with this.
The greatest problem is still unemployment and the inadequate growth in the large countries which is a major cause of it.
Budgetary policy in 1998 will be less strict than in 1997, when strenuous efforts were made.
Monetary policy will be somewhat expansionary, because the interest rates of the peripheral countries will drop to the German level and wages need no longer necessarily lag 1 % behind rises in productivity.
That is the positive signal given by these broad guidelines.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we view the recommendations of the Commission as balanced and fair.
They contain specific appeals to certain countries and certain operators in the economic world.
All this is fine, but what concerns us and what concerns the entire Parliament, I believe, is the outcome we should expect from these recommendations.
Article 103 was formulated a long time ago and we might hope that this article, which today should be interpreted in a wholly different way since we now have the Central Bank and we now have a single monetary policy, might make a contribution towards coordinating economic policies.
We are well aware that when a Commission proposal is stripped of its real meaning by the Council, the Commission can withdraw it.
The result is that we do not know what the "Ecofin' Council will do, or which document it will be working on.
But we might reasonably fear that this document does not contain any of the more relevant recommendations.
Madam President, I would like to welcome the Commissioner to the House and thank him for the communication on the broad guidelines to economic policy.
I would also like to pay particular tribute to our rapporteur who has brought forward a very balanced document which recognizes the new reality in which we now operate.
It is important for us as a Union to take account of our competitiveness as well as creating new opportunities for employment and growth.
On top of that I believe the present Amsterdam Treaty for the first time underlines the importance of employment within the overall European Union development.
It is important for us as a Parliament to recognize our role in bringing to fruition the ideas of what the people of Europe want to see.
Firstly, we can look at our own role - look at the legislation that we bring forward and make sure that it does not impact negatively on the employment creation and on encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship within our Community.
Secondly, there is a vast wealth of experience and knowledge of different systems, of different methods of employment and employment policy within this Parliament.
Our rapporteur has already mentioned a couple of them in his own speech and in his report.
The biggest engine of growth and employment in economic terms should be given extra support.
Madam President, both the broad economic guidelines and the rapporteur's work once again reveal that a number of measures need to be taken by the Member States and by the European Union as a whole after EMU comes into effect.
The new form in which the policy guidelines have been presented is our first confirmation of the official division of the European Union into a union of fast- and slow-track Member States.
Hopefully, the requirements of the Amsterdam Treaty will make this ecological tax reform more likely and more realistic now that we are embracing the euro.
Madam President, it is the first time since the decision of 2 May that this Parliament has been asked to give an opinion on the subject of economic policy, in relation not to a decision-making act, but to a recommendation of the Commission to the Member States on their policies.
All of this may create problems for the various areas in the individual states of guaranteeing the competitiveness of all areas.
The French economist and banker, Antoine Michel, said that there have to be three essential conditions for an area to be competitive, since competition will now no longer be between companies but between area-based systems: an area-based system must be able to have efficient administration, fair and if possible light taxation, and infrastructures whose purpose is to be competitive.
I am referring in particular to Italy, where there are already large-scale programmes for the transfer of resources from productive areas to areas that are at present assisted.
It would therefore be appropriate if it were in fact the European Parliament which told the Member States that resources should especially remain and be invested where they are produced, since the whole of Europe will grow in accordance with these virtuous policies, whereas there would be serious consequences if this were not to occur.
I, along with the rapporteur, welcome the Commission's emphasis on achieving a high level and rate of growth of employment.
However, what is also clear is that with inflation averaging 1.6 % in those countries within the European single currency zone, perhaps a slightly more relaxed monetary policy, combined with an increase in internal demand, will increase much needed employment across the European Union.
Reference has already been made to the birth of the euro and I believe, along with many other people on this side of the House, that the euro will improve the operation of the single market and in the medium to long term increase jobs in general across the single market.
Many opponents of the euro have claimed in the past that job losses have resulted from Member States meeting the convergence criteria.
The future and security of Europe will also depend on the ability to get as many as possible of Europe's twenty million people back to work.
The depressions in the early part of century and in particular the 1930s led to mass unemployment and two world wars.
The unemployment figures today are nearly as high as they were when the Essen summit took place not long after my election to this Parliament in 1994.
I believe that the conditions are right for job creation now and, as we say in my country let's make hay while the sun shines.
From this date onwards, the European Central Bank will be responsible for a single European monetary policy.
It is necessary on the one hand in order to secure the long term stability of the European currency, and on the other in order to create the appropriate framework conditions for growth and employment.
Decisions taken by the European Council on economic policy guidelines are a particularly important instrument in this regard.
The European Parliament collaborates intensively in this matter, according to the provisions of the Treaty.
The stability and growth pact is an important and innovative instrument for the greater co-ordination of national budgetary policies which is essential.
Today's historically low long-term interest rates are the result of the consistent stability policy of recent years.
This is the way in which stability policy creates the environment in which growth and the resultant employment become possible.
The code of conduct for corporate taxation recently adopted by the Council points in this direction.
That is why this competition between the systems will also be an essential component of European tax policy in the future.
The report from my colleague Mr Gasòliba i Böhm is an important contribution towards this!
This is all very well, but where do my country and its government feature in this picture?
As a European-minded Swedish liberal who belongs to a party that has clearly declared itself to be in favour of European cooperation, I find it sad - distressing, in fact - that my own countryʼs government has denied itself the opportunity to influence these decisions which are so vital to future employment and prosperity throughout Europe.
Madam President, on 2 May last I voted in favour of a single currency with cautious enthusiasm.
I voted for the motion because I believe that the euro is better than a Belgian franc bound indefinitely to the German mark alone and it is better than the mighty American dollar.
But in this Assembly I have always expressed the opinion that the arrival of the euro will not affect unemployment, which hits more than 20 million Europeans and which is caused partly by relocating companies in countries where manpower is 40 to 50 times cheaper than in Europe and partly, which comes back to the same thing, by the immigration of populations from outside Europe that expands the ranks of job seekers.
The European Union must place economic policy in the service of employment.
The Maastricht Treaty must at long last be implemented in economic and employment policy as well.
We need not only an upturn in economic activity which exploits unused capacity, but above all a medium-term process of growth which creates new productive capacity and new jobs.
In the interests of our fellow citizens, as I have already said, we need at long last to have a European economic and financial policy and more co-ordination, .
The final report by Mr Gasòliba and the Commission proposal, in my honest opinion, represent clear progress compared with the previous reports.
When I look at experience in my own country, the Netherlands, the polder model, I can report that there is extensive control of wage development as far as collective agreement wages are concerned, but that there is a scandalous trend in non-agreement wages, where the top incomes in firms in which wage rises were limited to 2.5 % have gone up by over 30 %.
I think it important to ask for a few points of action, and the most important one for me is that an effective form of parallelism should finally be created between the Council and the Commission in preparation and decision-making relating to employment and macroeconomic guidelines.
But I am sorry that the question of reducing working hours has not been properly expressed by the Commission.
And I can only view as a provocation the Commission text concerning the implementation of a reduction in working hours across the board, which states that the Commission considers that this raises serious problems and would prefer a more diverse, negotiated solution.
It is too much, because clearly public opinion in France has regarded it as a challenge to the French government.
It is too little, because if we were to take a tally of all the issues that raise problems today in terms of employment and the economic future of Europe, much is missing.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this preparatory year in which we draw up the major economic policy guidelines is of particular importance.
I am also pleased, on behalf of the Commission, to note the support which the European Parliament showed for his recommendations concerning the major guidelines for economic policy in 1998.
This support is important for two reasons.
Firstly, because it emphasizes the operational nature of these guidelines, the first of their kind following the decision to enter Economic and Monetary Union.
Secondly, because it confirms the consensus in favour of the contents of the European economic policy.
The operational nature of the coordination of economic policies depends both on the framework of that cooperative spirit and the manner in which it is deployed.
Hence, the 1998 Broad economic policy guidelines fit in the context of real multilateral controls, whereby the strict coordination of economic policies, which remain subject to national jurisdiction, assumes its true importance.
This is why the European Councils in Amsterdam in June 1997 and in Luxembourg in December 1997 invited the Commission to formulate recommendations under the terms of Article 103, paragraph 4, in the situation where a Member State might ultimately compromise the successful operation of the Economic and Monetary Union.
Those very European Councils requested that the Broad economic policy guidelines take account of long-term employment programmes and employment guidelines.
Quite rightly, this year the new major guidelines include specific recommendations for individual countries, with regard both to public finance and structural matters.
These various recommendations, which come in the wake of the resolution of the European Council in Luxembourg are vital.
Amending them, to arrive at a less precise and therefore more restrictive formulation, would not satisfy requirements concerning the coordination and monitoring of economic policy in Europe.
In the same vein, I would remind you that the Treaty stipulates that decisions concerning the broad economic policy guidelines must be approved by a qualified majority, these are the terms of Article 103.2 of the Treaty.
I would remind you that from a macroeconomic point of view, the broad guidelines for 1998 set out two aims at high level: employment and the success of Economic and Monetary Union.
It is for this reason that the Commission is pleased to congratulate your rapporteur unreservedly on the strategies he advocates and I am thinking in particular of item 6 in your draft resolution.
Your House, Mr Hendrick, is also concerned about the subject of domestic demand.
Well, I can assure you, the Broad economic policy guidelines take this dimension of economic policy into account, although demand must not be stimulated artificially.
Finally, with regard to structural policies, your rapporteur approves the Commission recommendations, whether they relate to product markets, services, capital or job markets.
As the European Council recommended in Luxembourg, the Commission recommendation establishes broad guidelines and an effective instrument promoting sustained convergence between Member States.
Hence the Broad economic policy guidelines are focussed more than in the past on measures designed to enhance the growth potential of Member States in order to boost employment.
This is why the Commission attaches such importance to putting forward recommendations to improve competitiveness, the effectiveness of job markets, goods and services, education and information and to render tax and welfare protection schemes more favourable to employment.
With regard to a reduction in working hours, your address, Mrs Lienemann, does not, it seems to me, represent the views of the Commission and I can tell you that the contents of the report and the Commission recommendations reflect not more nor less than the contents of the White Paper of 1993, presented by Jacques Delors.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that these new broad economic policy guidelines define the resources for monitoring and controlling the coordination of economic policies.
The exercise of this coordination function, and I weigh my words carefully, as concluded by the Heads of State and Government must not tomorrow be abused.
Many thanks, Commissioner de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
The rapporteur is not yet here.
Firstly, Mr President, Article 105, paragraph 4 of the Treaty, reflected in Article 4 of the statutes of the European System of Central Banks, stipulates that the European Central Bank is consulted by national authorities on any draft legislative provision within its field of competence, but within the bounds of, and according to the conditions established by the Council, in line with the procedure set out in Article 106, paragraph 6.
The purpose of the draft decision before us is to specify the conditions, obligations and limits imposed on those national authorities that intend to adopt regulations that fall within the field of competence of the European Central Bank, bearing in mind the overall objective which is to underwrite practical operation of the ESCB and the European Central Bank.
Let us remember that the European Central Bank is the central body and that all authorities must appeal to that body beforehand whenever they intend to adopt amendments to the prevailing rules in sectors within the field of competence of the ECB.
We give our consent, Mr President, to this entire development.
All the debates in recent months prove that the will of the overwhelming majority of this House is to protect the European Central Bank from political pressure and to guarantee its independence.
This is why, in view of the formulation of the excessively restrictive text of the rapporteur, in our opinion, we would prefer the original enacting terms of the text of the Commission, which seems to us most appropriate, more flexible and more open.
But first of all, I would like to explain the reason why I proposed these amendments.
This is why I have drafted amendments that restate this point.
It would give expression to Article 105 (4) of the Treaty, which provides that the ECB must be consulted by the national authorities on any bill or draft legislative provision relating to matters within its competence.
I think the proposal is still too decentralizing, which I admit would have been justified in 1991 to avoid frightening off (effaroucher) some of the Member States involved in the proposal.
And I doubt whether my fellow Members who are going to vote for this proposed resolution have had sufficient information about what they are voting on, because this report has been adopted with such vertiginous speed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in progress this evening may seem technical, yet it is important and necessary since it deals with legislation relating to the setting up of the European Central Bank.
Three of the four proposals do not pose a problem.
I can therefore only express my delight in your support.
The problem relates to the fourth proposal for decision, in other words that relating to European Central Bank consultation by national authorities on the subject of draft legislative provisions; in this respect, your rapporteur proposes four amendments.
The principle is strict compliance with the Treaty.
Of course, there is a very strong market logic and certain practices will find a certain similitude in a number of market sectors, and here I am thinking in particular of the monetary market.
With regard to Community jurisdiction, I am thinking in particular of the legislation on savings, the taxation aspect of which was covered by a draft directive which the Commission adopted only recently and which has been issued to you.
I am also thinking of the directive on the prospectus, or even the possible adaptation and possible harmonization of accounting rules.
I will now move on rapidly to a survey of the four amendments.
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 actually go back to the matter I just raised on the sharing of jurisdiction between the European Central Bank and the Member States with regard to regulation and financial matters.
Therefore these two amendments extend beyond the scope of Article 105, paragraph 4.
Yes, Mr Herman, things will change on the 1 January 1999 and I have said this many times in your House.
But the Treaty will not change, nor will Article 105, paragraph 4.
I would simply like to reassure you.
Secondly, should a Member State adopt a legislative text, a law, affecting the jurisdiction of the European Central Bank, recourse to the Court of Justice would obviously be possible.
Finally this draft decision by the Commission is based on similar provisions, currently applicable to the EMI, within the framework of Economic and Monetary Union.
Moreover, the Commission proposals tabled today have been approved by the European Monetary Institute.
Finally, Mr Herman, I can offer you a measure of satisfaction: we can accept Amendment No 3.
I do not intend to prolong the debate because you have a lot of reports to examine and your House has been delayed somewhat.
I would simply like to remind you that from a banking point of view, but also in a number of other fields, central banks retain responsibilities and powers.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress particularly some common aspects characteristic not only of the Parliament's budget for 1999 but, in many cases, of the budget of the other institutions: the adoption of the euro, computer changes for the year 2000, the forthcoming European elections and the related information policy, the consequences of the Amsterdam Treaty, the full implementation of the building programme exercising the option to purchase the LEO complex and the occupancy of IPE IV and, finally, the new staff management policy.
This increase, I can confirm here today, must not be considered an objective to be reached but rather an unsurpassable ceiling on expenditure, thus sticking to the idea of a rigorous budget comparable, in this respect, to that which the Member States have imposed on themselves.
Turning specifically to the Parliament, for which the allocation rate is 19.4 per cent of the volume of resources of category 5, and the particular features of the end of the fourth legislature, I would like to point out that the next elections should include financial costs of about ECU 17 million.
In any case, the European elections will, as in the past, be an opportunity to undertake a number of specific initiatives in the information sector, initiatives to increase voter participation, such as the Use your vote campaign, agreed with the Commission, also in a context of close cooperation with EUROSTAT.
This need is contained in the proposal to create 10 new temporary posts, linked to the enlargement process, on the basis of the job description which will be presented by the Secretary General to the competent bodies before the first reading of the draft budget.
Within this framework it should be noted that the savings derived from the reimbursement of the investments for buildings D1 and D2 make a margin of ECU 27 million available for the next financial year and that if this continues, this policy will certainly produce a real saving for the Union budget in future years.
However, as regards the Ombudsman, the proposal of three new posts - and not six, as requested - is considered more in line with the budget rigour imposed for all the institutions, including the Ombudsman.
It is in connection with these observations that I invite the Socialist group to withdraw its amendment or reformulate it adequately with an oral amendment, which I am prepared to agree.
The attendance at this debate this evening shows how close to the edge some of us are in danger of becoming.
That is extremely important as part of Parliament's approach to property policy.
We have exercised the purchase option before the date of 31 May and in so doing we have managed to get the beneficial input to Parliament's budget of the BEF 7.25 billion that has been negotiated between Parliament and the Kingdom of Belgium.
A third priority which I particularly welcome is that which we attach to the problems related to the introduction of the euro and the impact of the millennium bug.
I hope we can look to the administration to produce a report to Parliament as to what this priority means in practical terms, not necessarily waiting until next year.
These are serious problems for an information technology department which is already in many ways over-stretched and are probably two of the most important demands that will made of it.
We have tabled this amendment in Mr Wynn's name in order to leave the matter of staffing for the Ombudsman open until the first reading when one will have a clearer view of the overall need concerning staff.
We have done that, taking into account the views of the Committee on Petitions' rapporteur for the 1999 budget, Barbara Schmidbauer.
He was proving to be an extremely good interlocutor between the Bureau and the Committee on Budgets.
We will certainly miss him in that role but, above all else, we will miss him as a good parliamentarian.
And this is a difficult budget because of the large investments in property, furnishings and office automation equipment.
And the work rate being demanded corresponds to the institution the citizens want.
So I think the time has also come for us to ask ourselves seriously whether something more really needs to be done with the organization of the Ombudsman.
But we want an institution which can rise to the occasion, so it also has to be on a par with the other institutions, which means it has to have the necessary staff and means.
The total amount for the budget is 916 million euros, which is in accordance with the Bureau's proposal.
Balancing the budget is eased by the reduction of fixed costs by 17 million euros, as a conclusion is reached regarding Strasbourg's and Brussels' structural programmes.
The institution of the European Ombudsman was established with the Maastricht Treaty, and it began its work in 1995.
A clear example of this is the soaring number of complaints that have been lodged, which last year showed an increase of 40 %.
Mr President, greater transparency and clarity in this matter would be a boon for Parliament.
Dear Mr Tomlinson, there were more of us present during the budgetary guidelines debate which was held this year in Strasbourg.
The second main provision of the report sets aside appropriations to conduct a neutral campaign of institutional information amongst citizens of the Union.
What is proposed is that we step up the appropriations allocated for information policy; ECU 2 750 000 have already been released for this purpose in the form of a transfer voted on 28 May last, instituting a special "European elections' action.
So the European Parliament is preparing to vote on a 1999 budget which will only serve finally to augment its propaganda appropriations.
Is there a single example, in any democracy, where a special information action on the eve of the elections adds four billion already devoted directly or indirectly to propaganda by the Community budget?
Having said that, our priority must always be how we can help the people of Europe.
The European Ombudsman is a critical role.
It is important for us that we see that he gets the resources he needs.
In the Ombudsman we have an officer who can act on behalf of the people of Europe but if he is going to do that job properly he needs the proper resources to do it.
In his report Mr Viola suggests establishing three new posts to ease the work pressures on the Ombudsman's office.
The citizens of Europe have a right to expect the European Ombudsman's office handling their complaints to have at their disposal a legal staff that have at least the same level of experience as those in the institutions of the Community which are being looked into.
I hope we can yet consider the proposal by the Ombudsman on the number of staff he requires, and especially on their professional level, before we finally approve the 1999 budget in the autumn.
More than 150 Members have added their signature to this issue, and I believe that it should be a matter of concern to us that, if we are spending so much money on security, there should be some recognisable benefit in this area.
I believe that it would be sensible to speed up official discussions in order to guarantee the security of the House and to ensure that costs are incurred in this area in a way which is really efficient.
I believe that this is a matter of concern to the citizens of Brussels, and it is a matter of concern to all employees in the European Parliament and at the European level.
I would argue that we should hold discussions in this area.
The President promised to do so, and I believe that it should be a matter of concern for us all to look after the security of people in Brussels.
Thank you very much, Mr Rübig.
Before closing the debate, I shall give the floor to Mr Viola, as rapporteur.
For example, the Ombudsman cannot ask for posts which are not at the initial levels; he cannot request directly posts of high qualifications, or certain revaluations, like a revaluation of an A3 post to A2 after scarcely three years, meaning an official hired from the outside as A3 becomes A2 after three years.
Thank you very much, Mr Viola.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen though few in number, I do not think I am wrong in saying that frontier workers can serve as a barometer for social integration in the European Union.
According to Parliament's Legal Service, Commissioner, Article 49 of the Treaty offers a sound legal basis for doing that.
I would therefore very much like to have a concrete reaction from you on this point.
Here I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, there is some misunderstanding about this proposal.
It is also Parliament's intention with this report to achieve a further step towards European coordination in social security and fiscal legislation in the Member States.
The Commission has already presented a number of proposals.
I hope that the Commission will take the problems of these people to heart and can report to us annually on the situation, and I hope that we can keep these problems permanently on our parliamentary agenda.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the situation of frontier workers is one of a series of reports which deal with the problems of people who use or want to use one of the most important basic freedoms in the European Union.
The rapporteur has devoted a good deal of work to drawing up the report in order to demonstrate the diverse problems of workers in frontier regions.
We would like our draft amendments to contribute to ensuring that the report on the problems of frontier workers sticks with this issue, and that it is not muddled up with other sets of problems.
In this matter, our view is that no genuine solution can be achieved on the basis of this sort of more or less voluntary individualisation between the Member States.
Our Amendment No 10, which relates to point 13, was withdrawn by me, because it was drawn up on the basis of an error in translation in the German version.
That is why the Van Lancker report is so urgently needed, because it exposes matters which admittedly affect frontier workers in the first instance, but which also have everything to do with bringing flexibility to the labour market, not only within countries but also in possible employment situations spanning different countries.
The Monti Group on tax coordination and the Veil Group have done excellent work.
Nevertheless, frontier workers are often in extraordinarily difficult positions and, in taking the initiative to work across the border, lose quite fundamental rights, including basic entitlements such as the right to a pension.
Mr President, I believe that Mrs van Lancker has not only worked hard but also well, which is most important.
All of that is caught up with the problem of unanimity in the Council of Ministers, even though in other areas everything that is needed to implement the internal market is not subject to unanimity but can be decided by majority vote.
I think that the proposal of a compensation fund for disadvantages suffered or for an early warning system through the consultation procedure in advance of relevant legislation is a good proposal.
When, in this very House, we debate problems that focus on the lack of harmonization, for example, in the sizing of processed peas, the capacity of moped engines or the speed of forestry tractors, we tend to overlook those citizens who, whether nationals or frontier residents in a Member State, are unable to work in the adjoining Member State without coming up against insurmountable administrative, social or tax problems.
It is a sensitive problem and even the euro, the alleged panacea for all our problems, offers no relief.
We therefore need a strong political will and a genuine desire to promote the common good in order to confront the problems posed in this area.
It is indecent to appeal throughout the report for more resources to assist the mobility of citizens of the Member States or to claim the creation of a citizens' Europe when those very citizens, on a daily or weekly basis, cross domestic borders and face staggering problems.
We might add to this those situations where Community nationals face difficulties due to the lack of coordination on the position of Member States in their bilateral agreements with other states.
In France, for example, the committee for the defence of frontier workers in the Upper Rhine throws up many examples, such as that of the Italian national who worked and paid his dues for 25 years in France, followed by two years in Switzerland and who, falling victim to a disability, lost his claim for compensation because of the last two years since he is Italian and therefore not covered by the Franco-Swiss bilateral agreement.
Mr President, I want to say a sincere thank you to the rapporteur for a good report.
The report has its origin in the problems of Belgian frontier workers who, through the fiscal treatment of social security in the Netherlands, suffered a loss of purchasing power amounting to a few hundred guilders a month.
However, only social security falls within the Regulation, which moreover shows many other gaps.
Now that social legislation is being constantly amended in the Member States and more and more tax-related elements are being introduced, it is high time for fiscal coordination to be tackled at European level.
If the Commissioner can now tell us what he intends to do, I shall at least be able to give a little hope to my commuting constituency to whom, if I may say so, the European ideal is of such vital significance.
Of particular importance, and I hope to get a positive answer on that point too, is an element in this report which I already introduced here about six years ago, but then as "the commuting effect test' , but what's in a name?
Thank you very much, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
That is the situation of many frontier workers in my country who go to work in the Netherlands, or in France, or in Germany.
These frontier workers are victimized by that situation, for various Member States, primarily the Netherlands - and we have to put the Netherlands in the dock over this - but various Member States have developed the habit of penalizing socially people from across the border who come to work in their countries.
Agreements between Member States in which the European Union as such cannot easily intervene.
Commissioner, I think that a very important element in this report is the Europe test, or a vetting process to determine what disadvantages frontier workers might experience as a result of new legislation passed or new decisions taken in Member States.
Secondly, the compensation fund.
That is why I fully support giving equal rights to frontier commuters and mobile workers in terms of the European Commission's action plan which contains five main emphases, namely improving or adjusting the most important legal documents on the free movement of workers, increasing the transparency of the labour market, taking-on of responsibility by the Member States and developing co-operation, better information about the right of free movement and strengthening the external effect as well as assisting innovative projects in the framework of the European Social Fund.
Mr President, of the 380, 000 strong workforce employed as frontier workers in the border regions between Member States, nearly 20 % from France, Germany and Belgium work in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
I am proud to be able to point out that these frontier workers in our country have a job, a wage, as well as employment and social security conditions which, especially with regard to pension schemes, are much more favourable than the areas in which they live.
In the light of this, it would be totally eccentric to envisage the institution of a compensation fund, as proposed in the report.
Indeed, it is quite wrong to claim that in general, in the Community, frontier workers suffer from loss of income and discrimination.
I felt it my duty to raise these issues, Mr President, and especially to endorse the principle that it is in our interest to combine the payment of social security contributions and taxation on wages in the country of employment.
The Commission fully supports her concerns.
Indeed, the Commission's action plan for free movement of workers adopted on 12 November 1997 highlighted the important role of cross-border mobility in the Union.
In particular, it underlined the need for specific clear provisions to overcome the problems caused for frontier workers by disparities between national, legal systems in fields such as social security, taxation, health care and social advantages.
Besides this statutory action, cross-border cooperation needs to be fostered in order to cover specific issues of interest to frontier workers such as social security and taxation.
Your draft resolution calls for a range of actions from the different partners involved.
I welcome your proposal to put forward the resolution to the Council, the European social partners, the governments and the parliaments of the Member States, as well as to the Commission.
With regard to fiscal matters, the Commission has long been aware of the specific tax problems of frontier workers and has sought to contribute to their solution by way of legislative proposals and other initiatives.
As early as 1979 the Commission presented a draft directive to harmonize certain aspects of a tax treatment on non-residents.
The recommendation and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice following the approach of the recommendation, in particular the Schumacher judgment, significantly benefited the situation of non-resident workers.
Most Member States concerned have now, more or less, adapted their legislation on the taxation of non-residents who earned their main income in a Member State other than that of their residence, in line with the recommendation.
The Commission has also kept under review the legislation in Member States and initiated infringement proceedings against several Member States for failure to respect the non-discrimination rule.
This report underlines the need for a Community approach to the problem of rules for tax jurisdiction in parallel to that existing in the field of social security.
It has to take into account the need for unanimity for any adoption of binding Community legislation in the tax field.
Recently the Court ruled that under the existing provisions of Community law Member States are free to arrange bilaterally the tax jurisdiction for income tax of frontier workers.
However, the Commission will pay particular attention to the need for a coherent solution of the tax and social security problems faced by the frontier workers.
The EURES cross-border partnerships have been supported by the European Parliament from the very start and we welcome the proposal that EURES and its cross-border partnerships should be stepped up.
However, I should underline that while the number of cross-border partnerships has increased from 11 to 18 over the past two years, our budget has not increased.
The EURES partners and their advisers will thus be able to contribute to the setting up of an early warning system.
However, it should be made clear that they will not be able to provide a complete coverage in all border areas of the Union or in all aspects mentioned in the resolution.
However, the Commission will shortly present a comprehensive report on the work of the EURES network for the years 1996 and 1997 to Parliament.
As regards the proposal to establish call centres for migrant and frontier workers, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the Commission's intention to launch a permanent dialogue with citizens.
The Commission will certainly continue to use the powers laid down in Article 169 of the Treaty and to launch infringement proceedings against Member States when they violate EC law.
However, I understand that the suggested proposal for a directive aims to provide for a more general socio-economic impact assessment of the consequences of national legislation which is in itself compatible with EC law but which might cause detrimental effects to frontier workers.
While I am not sure that it would be appropriate to propose a directive in these circumstances, it seems to me appropriate to stimulate, as it is suggested in the report, cross-border concertation of the partners involved in the different regions and at Community level.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her stimulating report and to stress the Commission's determination to maintain its efforts to overcome the problems faced by frontier workers.
Our Legal Service had indicated Article 49 as a suitable legal basis.
The question is of some political choices to be made here and before any of these matters concerning that and other matters concerning taxation are pursued, the taxation policy group should have a look at these matters first.
The only difficulty is that it seems to be overloaded with matters to be dealt with this year.
But the answer in short is Yes, it can be established that there is a legal base where this could be undertaken.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have three comments to make: the first relates to the current situation, the second relates to the aims of this draft directive and the third concerns the difficulties arising during this undertaking.
We can say that the current situation is marked by the very wide diversity of this type of document - what we call the "grey card' in my country - for vehicle registration certificates.
Because of this extremely wide diversity and a virtual lack of any kind of codification, legibility of the document from an international standpoint and its use by those responsible for checking vehicles in transit is extremely problematic.
Finally, in some countries, this document does not even exist because things are arranged differently.
This is the reason behind it and this is why, personally, I have only put forward three amendments, Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4.
However, I cannot agree to Amendment No 7, tabled by the Greens, because this will overload the document further with details relating to operation of the vehicle, which would undoubtedly make it extremely difficult to adopt even this initial step in our efforts to harmonize registration certificates.
Secondly, the state which registers the vehicle must send the old registration documents to the state which issued them, in order to inform them that the registration number of the vehicle has changed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a debate among transport policy conspirators.
This is a report which is slightly technical but not really as technical as all that.
As to the matter itself: we support the draft directive from the Commission on the harmonization of the registration documentation for motor vehicles and trailers.
I believe that aligning registration documents will facilitate transport checks in the Union, because in future and irrespective of the issuing country the documents will in each case contain a series of clear and uniform statements; for example, inter alia they will indicate in which Member State the vehicle is registered and which person is the authorised owner of the registration documents.
However, Commissioner, my group believes that this can be only the first step towards harmonization, because it makes no sense within the European Community for some states to have one-piece registration documents and others two-piece documents, with differing legal consequences in the Member States concerned.
That is why I would be happy if you would acknowledge that harmonization will have to go beyond this first step, especially since I believe that the theft and smuggling of vehicles within the Community and also from the Community into adjacent third countries must be more effectively prevented, and it would be helpful in this respect to have sensible registration documents.
Amendment No 1 calls for an additional statement in the preamble to the effect that this proposal constitutes a first step towards more complete harmonization.
Amendment No 3 seeks to change the dates of implementation to take into account the actual time frame of the proposal.
I believe it best, therefore, to leave this detail until the actual adoption of the common position and to set appropriate dates at that point.
Amendment No 4 calls on the Commission to circulate all copies of all registration documents to all Member States and I can certainly support that amendment as a useful means of spreading relevant information.
Amendment Nos 2, 5 and 6 relate to anti-fraud measures.
However, the effect of the other two amendments would be to require replacement registration documents when certain new spare parts were installed in the vehicle, including for example a replacement window.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to be sure whether we are talking about starch or about potatoes.
In this case, there is discrimination in favour of potato starch, with an overvaluation of approximately 35 %, which needs to be looked at.
If it is a question of potatoes, then I hope the honourable Members will allow me to say this: we are going to study this matter in depth and we are going to move towards a set of rules to cover the potato, not just for starch use, but for all uses, both for industry and for food.
And here I would make a claim on behalf of many EU Member States: we propose a common organization of the market in potatoes.
In the case of potato starch, however, the status quo should be maintained for three years.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal involves a budgetary increase of 26 %, which I think is highly significant.
We are told that by cancelling things we could save ECU 150 million.
With the oil question, we are talking about figures in the region of ECU 200 million, which is causing a big fuss throughout the European Union.
Just to go back for a moment, the quotas were introduced because there had been a huge increase in the production of potatoes for starch when starch from potatoes started to be treated, as far as subsidies were concerned, in the same way as cereals.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my very sincere thanks to Mrs Redondo for her report, and in this case I should like to contradict Mrs Hardstaff quite frankly when she asks: why do not we take maize or corn instead of potatoes?
Neither wheat nor maize can thrive where potatoes thrive, and that is why it is in particular the production of potato starch that is indispensable and an essential factor for certain disadvantaged regions of Europe.
Thank you very much, Mr Mulder.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal to extend the quota system for potato starch by three years merits full support.
The arrangement has contributed to a stable development of the market.
The costs of the market organization for potato starch are being kept under control.
Hence any reform of the market organization for potato starch must be coordinated with reforms in the cereal sector.
But I do not think that Agenda 2000 proposals for potato starch, in which compensation for a drop in price is only 44 %, are acceptable.
Furthermore, it is the only one of the 25 most important EU agricultural products not to be regulated by the Union itself.
But we should also call upon the Council, through Amendment No 3, to have the courage once and for all to find a system to regulate the problem of food potatoes throughout the EU, by means of a COM, now that they have had proposals on the table for 5 or 6 years.
In Finland domestic potato starch production is enough to meet only half the demand of the country's paper industry, and so Finland has recommended increasing its quota to 70 000 tonnes.
The proposal seeks to renew the existing scheme for a further period of three years.
The Committee willingly accepts Amendment No 1 which underlines the socio-economic importance of potato starch producers and justifies the steps taken in this sector.
Similarly, the Committee accepts Amendment No 2 which lends support to the aim of maintaining a balance between the root vegetable starch and cereal starch sectors.
With regard to Amendment No 3, relating to potatoes grown for food, the Committee is aware of the need to deploy a common market organization in the potato sector.
With regard to Amendment No 4, which seeks to impose a limit on the premium paid to starch manufacturers during the 1998-1999 campaign, the Committee regrets that it cannot accept this amendment which would be contrary to the interests of this sector due to structural constraints in terms of production.
Similarly, with regard to Amendment No 5, the Committee does not see the need to specify a period of three years, as indicated in Article 1 of the proposal, or the reason why the amount of the premium set in the rules should be changed.
Consequently, the committee is unable to accept this amendment.
With regard to Amendment No 6, which seeks to increase the flexibility of the scheme, the Committee regrets that it cannot accept this amendment either, since it might boost production in a market that is already relatively saturated.
Thank you very much, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Higher education The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0191/98), on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a Council Recommendation on European cooperation in quality assurance in higher education (C4-0191/98-97/0121(SYN)) (Rapporteur: Mrs Heinisch).
The positions which have been taken up by the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament in the course of the work on the recommendation with which we are now concerned offer a striking reflection of the difficulties that we come up against so often in the sphere of European educational policy, when it is a matter of achieving objectives which are desirable for the Community while strictly respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
The common opinion has picked up Parliament's idea on this decisive point.
The Council has, for example, rejected involving the CEEC states in the quality assurance measures.
They, too, should share in the integrating effect at which our measures are targeted, and it will be important for them in particular to profit from Europe's capacity for innovation and to contribute to it.
In Germany where teaching and research form a single entity, it seemed to me a very obvious thought that the quality of a college or university can be judged only if its research achievements are evaluated at the same time.
However, Article 126 of the Maastricht Treaty, on which our recommendation is based, does not allow any statement in relation to the research sphere.
In so doing, it falls within the legal base of Article 126 and can thereby include research evaluation in training.
The guarantee of and progress in the quality of training and its constant critical review by colleges and universities and all of their members ought really to be much more a matter of course, in the interest of the best possible life and career opportunities for young graduates.
It should at long last be common practice that every college undergoes an evaluation of its research and teaching and that international external experts should also take part in the evaluation groups.
For example, universities should ensure that they face critical questioning about how good and forward-looking the education they are offering is, whether they consciously give a European orientation to their courses of studies in the spirit of ERASMUS, and offer lectures and seminars in other languages, for example, whether they have reached agreements with colleges or sectors of industry in other countries in order to offer students practical experience abroad, or whether the college puts itself forward as a regional training centre for those in work or whether one subject area takes part in distance-learning.
In fact, the Council text contains all your major amendments such as those concerning the definition of an establishment of higher education, the diversity of national education and assessment systems, as well as the independence and individual character of establishments of higher education.
I remember that they are derived from experience in the field, in which many teaching establishments participated and it is on the basis of this experience that we have been able to single out the common features of teaching quality assessment systems across the various countries of the Union.
I would also like to mention the importance of this cooperative spirit if we wish to achieve a genuine transparency in teaching systems and to foster the exchange of mutual information between educational establishments on the content and quality of their teaching.
This should further the cross-national mobility of students, the recognition of diplomas and qualifications and the free movement of qualified students in Europe.
You will recall that the Commission was unable to accept at the first reading an amendment that referred to research in general, since this does not come within the legal premise underlying the recommendation.
I have frequently stressed the importance of this recommendation towards promoting quality education in Europe.
As soon as the Council has finally adopted the recommendation, the Commission will proceed as soon as possible to set up the network for quality assessment, whose work will be decisive towards creating the European educational space we all desire so earnestly.
Thank you very much, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Thus we express our concern about the effects of rapid technological innovation on some areas of research - especially in relation to the information society - as regards the composition of the applicant groups, as well as their launch and budgetary obligations.
One aspect the committee found particularly relevant is the reference to the property rights to knowledge resulting from work carried out under indirect actions, when the Community's contribution is 50 % or more.
We did not think it right or adequate only to stipulate that right to shared property rights when Community funding was 100 %.
Although it seems incredible, we have also received warnings about this disgraceful practice, in some cases.
All of this arises from our concern to protect the financial interests of the European Community, as provided for by Regulation No 2988/95.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done.
Let me run through five or six points that have arisen out of this.
Understandably, the Commission wants to be very meticulous, but the lead times are long and it is sometimes eighteen months before a decision is taken.
Finally, satisfactory agreements are not always concluded regarding dissemination.
I got the impression from the Commission that there was a lot of resistance to looking seriously at these amendments because there was already a pre-printed scheme for what the outcome should be.
That can sometimes be a problem.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the publication and evaluation of results are essential aspects of scientific research policy for countries with under-developed industries.
I would like to say that it is important to keep the definition of SMBs at the present maximum of five hundred workers and not to reduce it to two hundred and fifty, as proposed in Amendment No 1.
But the fact is that in Portugal only companies of a certain size can conduct research.
The world would not understand such a lack of vision and the future would not forgive us for it.
Thank you very much, Mrs Vaz da Silva.
The Commission in the main endorses the objectives of Amendments Nos 4 and 8 (EC, Euratom).
Pending reformulation, the Commission can partially adopt these amendments.
Although sharing their underlying concerns, the Commission is actually of the opinion that these amendments are already covered by the measures proposed, for example Amendments Nos 1 (ECEuratom), 5, 11 and 16 (EC), or they are likely to introduce daily management provisions in the theoretical texts invoked to govern research policy in its entirety, for example Amendments Nos 2 and 7 (EC, Euratom) and 14 (EC).
The adoption of this recommendation at the first reading should enable the "research' Council of the 22 June to adopt a common position on the proposal.
However, I do not underestimate the difficulties awaiting us with regard to the adoption of the fifth framework programme under satisfactory conditions.
Thank you very much, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
