Seventeen Members of this Parliament from six different groups are accused of being involved in Mafia practices, in particular in the drugs Mafia in the European Union.
Since a system and unit have been set up to act against such scandalous articles, I would like to ask whether the Swedish Information Bureau has produced a fiche d'alerte about this yet, and whether it has arrived at our unit in this Parliament yet, and what this will result in.
Because, Madam President, speaking for myself, by the end of the week it is really unbearable.
Mr Cornelissen, we cannot start a discussion on this point.
I think, the explanation, Mr Cornelissen, is much more simple.
It is our contribution to the single European market and the free circulation of bacteria.
Thank you, Mr Corbett, for your very amusing contribution to this discussion.
We had 36 amendments to discuss, received between the approval of the draft report by the committee and the plenary sitting.
Mrs d'Ancona and my group therefore request that we be given the opportunity to do this and to endeavour to reach a compromise on this highly sensitive topic of drugs policy. (Applause) Mr Schulz, you have made a request pursuant to Rule 129.
The British Government has issued a statement which says: But the UK government has made clear that it has no intention of legalizing or decriminalizing any currently controlled drug.
In order to do justice to the idea that it is dangerous to make use of specific instruments outside their context, I have introduced a large number of amendments at the request of the Council, and I obviously hope that my colleagues will support these.
Secondly, I think that sending people to a third country outside the EU where there are different standards, possibly to the disadvantage of the asylum seeker, is ruled out.
The other thing I find extremely important is that the European Commission, and not one of the Member States takes on the management of Eurodac.
The individuals to be registered using this system have left their home countries for a number of different reasons and by a number of very different routes.
The most important is that data protection be guaranteed for the individuals involved.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the core of this automatic data processing system relates to the fact that, in principle, future applicants for asylum in the European Union should be fingerprinted as soon as they enter a Member State, as long as they are at least 14 years old.
It is important that asylum proceedings in Europe are decided quickly.
Thirdly, we must avoid a situation in which applicants for asylum are shunted back and forth between EU Member States.
Of course, there are a considerable number of asylum seekers who make not one, but two or more applications in order to receive several lots of social security benefit.
In Germany, for example, investigations were carried out covering the period from January 1993 to September 1996 and no less than 46 000 cases of fraud were detected - a rate of approximately 1 in 10.
To grant or deny access to the asylum process may mean the difference between a person's life and death, as is pointed out in the report.
In this context I would like to recall the passivity demonstrated by the Spanish Government in the face of asylum and refugee applications from more than 270 Algerian immigrants who are still waiting in Melilla - and have been in some cases for more than two years - for their applications for legal protection to be dealt with in the face of the terrorist threat to which they are subject in their country of origin.
The coordination of asylum policies needed in the European Union must not be allowed to erode the system of international protection.
In this sense, the future political union will have to maintain and develop the traditional European policy of the right to asylum.
We advocate a progressive attitude with respect to the right to asylum, subject to all the international conventions, and through a progressive application of that right to nationals from countries within the Union.
No other region in the world has triggered more or larger streams of refugees than did this continent in the 20th century.
Millions of men and women from Europe have been received into countless countries all over the world, very often countries themselves suffering ruin and poverty.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recent events have forcibly and tragically reminded us of the importance of the asylum policy to every Member State of the European Union and to the European Union as a whole.
Although it is obvious that inter-state cooperation is not only useful but also necessary in this area, it is nevertheless true that the problem of accepting refugees, and the right of asylum, are essentially, a question of national sovereignty, as moreover, the French Constitutional Council recently ruled.
These principles are reflected in the 'Eurodac' report, which is above all a technical report, but also a political report.
The rapporteur suggests that responsibility for the management of the Eurodac system should be entrusted, not to a Member State, under the responsibility of the Council, but to the Commission.
Indeed, the Council, emanating from the Member States, has a more accurate perception of the real, practical issues associated with the problems of accepting refugees, whereas the Commission is likely to have a more 'disembodied' view, more remote from practical problems and real life in each of the Member States faced with an influx of refugees.
That is why we will vote against the Committee on Civil Liberties' amendments.
A few years ago, our colleague, Michel Rocard said that France could not accommodate all the poverty of the world.
Madam President, the Kurdish refugee case is a current reminder that the problem of the asylum seeker is perhaps one of if not the greatest challenges for Europe in the coming years.
I should add, however, that the Kurdish problem is still very small in comparison to the tidal wave of millions which threatens to come our way if the situation in Algeria escalates any further.
We reject the amendments of the d'Ancona report equally obviously, amendments which on the one hand serve to hamper the much-needed fingerprints register, and on the other hand give the European Commission a decision-making position in asylum policy which the Commission is absolutely not entitled to.
Lastly, it is also my duty to broaden the debate a little, and to remind you that experience teaches us that, after investigation, more than 90 % of applications for asylum turn out to be completely unfounded.
This should be said now that so many politicians in my country and outside continue to argue for a kind of Santa Claus politics which is ultimately pursued on the back and at the expense of the less well-off and the poorest amongst our own people.
So to conclude, I repeat that in my view genuine political refugees should be received in countries neighbouring their countries of origin which have on the whole a similar way of life and culture, and therefore not in Europe, and that we are prepared to support this policy materially.
Secondly, we believe that illegal asylum seekers, in other words 90 % of applicants, should be categorically deported, yet in a humane manner.
It is necessary to have an effective and responsible asylum policy in the EU.
Rather the issue concerns a better sharing of the responsibility for refugees in Europe.
There are many tragic examples of cases where asylum seekers wait for years to get their applications processed, or are sent back and forth between different European countries because no-one wants to accept responsibility.
Mr President, the recent upsurge of refugees arriving in Europe has had the merit of drawing attention to the problems of asylum seekers in the European Union.
The Eurodac system presented by the Commission is a response to one aspect of the problem.
The Dublin Convention did say that a refugee must apply for asylum in the first host country and comply with that country's decision, which would apply to the whole EU.
The Eurodac system is now trying to transpose that principle into reality, in order to ensure that certain people, without identification, do not travel from country to country, according to the welfare benefits they can obtain, whilst awaiting a decision.
During the debates on the Kurdish refugees, the need for European harmonization, with regard to asylum policy, suddenly became apparent.
Although the Eurodac system must be welcomed as a technical instrument to prevent abuse, we should not lose sight of the root of the problem, that is, the situation in refugees' home countries.
It is here that European internal and foreign affairs policies should meet in order to form an overall, and therefore more effective approach.
The European Union must incorporate human rights considerations more fully into its relationship with such countries, support the reconciliation of people within the framework of the rule of law, and denounce the political, economic and cultural oppression of minorities.
There are clear risks that people are going to be registered who are resident quite legally in various Member States.
I believe there is an obvious risk that there will be the same weaknesses in the Eurodac system which exist in the Schengen system today.
In spite of this criticism, I am going to vote for Mrs d'Ancona's report because it raises important issues about the Eurodac system.
Michel Rocard did indeed say that France could not welcome all the poverty in the world, but he added that France should accept its full share.
When we discuss the Eurodac report, we are right in the middle of the problems caused by non-harmonization of our immigration and asylum policies.
Yesterday, we had a debate on the arrival of Kurdish refugees in Italy, and we saw how difficult it is to discuss problems in the heat of the moment.
The Eurodac project is part of the pursuit of harmonization of asylum practices.
Her report makes provision for this and I support it.
But I should like above all to emphasize the need to progress rapidly towards the harmonization of asylum practices.
Madam Commissioner, you have made a proposal with regard to the temporary protection of displaced persons, which I have already had occasion to applaud.
Because what have we seen with regard to applications for asylum in the EU for several years?
The number of requests for asylum peaked in 1992, and has since decreased every year.
National provisions have been adopted by many Member States to discourage people wanting to seek a better future in Europe, who are unable to enter Europe because of stricter immigration controls, from trying to obtain the status of refugee.
The laws of some Member States interpret the Geneva Convention in a spirit contrary to its promoters.
People who are really persecuted are refused the status of refugee, on the grounds that their persecutors are not Government agents, and the Council ratified this restrictive interpretation in a resolution of March 1996.
As of course the risks such people run if they return are well known, they are tolerated within the EU, but without status or rights, in several of our Member States.
The proposal put to us by the Council is a tool which is acceptable and which helps to achieve the European Union's goals in terms of asylum policy.
This will be shown very clearly in the remainder of the debate.
You have created the European Economic Area, you have created a de facto EU state, but now you want to continue the process, focusing on specifics, dissected for want of long-needed progress in terms of harmonization.
That is also where to find the rules on how an asylum seeker may be returned to the country which is to decide the application for asylum.
The Dublin Convention was signed in June 1990.
Through Eurodac it will be possible to find out whether asylum applications are being made in several places by one and the same person.
The draft Eurodac Convention we are debating here today has been drawn up under the rules of the Maastricht Treaty.
At the same time I would like to emphasize that if the Eurodac Convention is not in force when the Amsterdam Treaty is ratified, the Commission will of course come back and propose a Community instrument.
The Commission shares Parliament's view that the Convention should be entirely in agreement with the rules on data protection, which I think it is in its current form.
We should therefore support the compromise on Article 6 which requires that after a five year period the Council of Ministers should consider whether it is still necessary to keep data on people who are granted refugee status.
Amendment No 20 includes parts which we can accept, particularly the principle on decisions with regard to implementation measures and that they should be carried by majority decision.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
The question deserves particular attention for two reasons: firstly, since the auditor has become responsible for the accuracy of financial statements; and secondly, since there is no uniform legislative framework within the European Union relating to the role, the position and the liability of the statutory auditor, to respond to society's demand for better and more transparent information concerning companies' accounts.
In the Green Paper the lack of a common position or joint action within the European Union has been assessed as a negative factor.
In regard to the statutory auditor's role, there is no specific Community directive regulating all its legal aspects.
However, the Commission expresses doubts in the Green Paper in regard to the fund and as to how the appropriate legal means will shape any joint action.
Sometimes the need to establish minimum principles is referred to, while at other times the possibility of making a single recommendation to the Member States is mentioned.
The Green Paper seems to tend towards establishing a common concept of auditing or establishing a set of objectives to be followed by this entire sector throughout the European Union, and which can then be used to define the obligations or legal requirements which the auditor will have to fulfil in carrying out his role.
The Commission's idea to present a draft recommendation to improve the management of companies in Member States is, in this sense, very relevant.
Finally I would like to voice a complaint that we have not had access to the study which the Commission has begun on the impact of different national legislations in the matter of civil liability.
It is clear that Parliament will not be able to decide on this issue without full knowledge of the facts.
I wish to highlight one particular concern: it is believed that Article 51 of the Fourth Company Law Directive has not been properly implemented in Italian law.
Madam Commissioner, it is difficult to add anything else to what the previous speakers have said in regard to the importance of the statutory audit.
It is difficult because, in an ever more complex society, you will frequently find different interpretations as to the legal parameters of the companies being expressed.
Firstly that competition is exclusive; we are not dealing with areas of shared competition where the principle of subsidiarity acts as an authoritative principle for that competition.
However much competition is exclusive, no-one considers it appropriate to act more than is strictly necessary to achieve the objectives of harmonization and consolidation of the internal market which the Treaties specify.
For that reason, if spontaneous harmonization of these rules could be produced, which have been shown, day after day, to be completely different in the Member States, this task of setting rules and regulations - that is community competition - would not need to be carried out.
So as it is, we have community competition which must be put into practice.
And it is certain, as has also been said, that in some cases - specifically in Article 51 of the Fourth Directive relating to annual accounts - it is not administered very well, but today we are discussing about another question: about lege ferenda , for which we must establish norms.
Likewise the idea from the technical committee becomes clear - as has already been mentioned - and, finally, we need to set clear limits on what are parallel services, which in a straightforward, trading and entrepreneurial expansion auditing companies tend to deliver.
Article 51 of the Fourth Directive has been mentioned by two colleagues, and implementation of the Eighth Directive in all Member States also calls for more work by the Commission.
Multinational companies, international companies and - hopefully one day - European companies will require harmonized audit rules to be in place.
Mr President, this debate concerns the future of auditing in Europe.
In many cases this lack of consensus obstructs the operation of the single market.
It was against this background that the Commission issued its Green Paper, in order to start a highlevel debate in Europe on these issues.
Let me pick out some points of view.
The sub-committee would consist of representatives of the Member States and professional bodies.
If the professional body does what is required, all well and good.
The Commission and the new sub-committee shall consider the various proposals which have been made in connection with the Green Paper and, of course, on the basis of the report which we are now debating here in Parliament.
We need to examine more closely how various systems affect the single market.
With these points of view I would also like to give thanks to the rapporteur for a good piece of work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12: 00.
We must also recognize the need to protect the Alpine environment, including the Alpine areas of Switzerland.
The fact that the UK Presidency has taken on board this issue of an agreement shows how important it is.
Mr President, my group would like the Commission, in this case Commissioner van de Broek, to tell us whether the European efforts during the negotiations with Switzerland can be reconciled with the obligations the European Union committed itself to at an earlier time?
According to the Alpine Convention which was signed by all Member States, and is therefore simply binding on us, the Union has committed itself to making efforts to switch transport across the Alps from road to rail.
It says in the transit agreement that lorries passing through Switzerland must be charged the external costs, in particular the environmental costs.
I would also say to some of the members of this House, including my colleague Mrs van Dijk: I often hear you say: If you would drop at least as far as the Austrian Brenner rate, we would be happy.
If my memory serves me correctly, this Parliament supported the Commission in its legal action against the last toll increase in the Brenner.
So the Commission has a delicate role to play in the negotiations between Switzerland and the European Union.
Everyone knows that the results of this agreement will also determine the transit conditions for all the other Community Alpine passes, starting with the Brenner, certainly the most delicate, the key point in the great north-south linkage, above all on completion - as soon as possible we hope - of the great rail axis linking, to take a rather optimistic view, Stockholm and Palermo.
In parallel, the European Union maintains that the level of road tax in Switzerland should be comparable to that applying to the Brenner.
Austria was hoping so too because, in short, they were waiting to find out what the Swiss toll would be so as to apply a heavier one to the Brenner and thus encourage the largest lorries to go through Switzerland.
This situation becomes even more acute if we take a look at the statistics, which are important and show that in 2001 only 15 % of transit will be by rail and water and 81 % by road; at the moment the equivalent percentage is 72 %.
This means that we find ourselves in a situation in which we simply have to reach an agreement.
In a word, I would like to call on the Commission once more to enter into the negotiations in all peacefulness and openness.
For that reason, I and the whole of my group consider that the EU's relationship with Switzerland with regard to transport cannot be isolated from the overall context of Alpine transit, and that the disastrous effects of the increase in road traffic on the environment must be taken into consideration urgently.
Furthermore, special attention should be paid to the rail project linking Geneva via Mâcon, Bourg-en-Bresse or Chambéry.
The new President of the Swiss Republic has made optimistic remarks on the future relationship between the European Union and Switzerland.
Thank you, Mrs Leperre-Verrier.
Thank you, Mr Jarzembowski.
Mr President, this debate is certainly taking place at an interesting time, both because of the phase which the negotiations with Switzerland have now reached, and because the current phase in the internal discussion within the Union is particularly centred on road transport charging.
I would like to point out that although this debate is concentrating on transport problems, the negotiations with Switzerland cover a large number of dossiers, and that the agreement within the Union, which the Commission also wishes to retain, is that the negotiations in the different sectors must be brought to a balanced completion, both within the sectors as such, and between the sectorial dossiers.
This in combination with the introduction of a new charging system on a kilometre basis for road transport in Switzerland.
Also liberalization with regard to railway capacity, and as regards the quality and price of the service, in particular for combined transport, as well as a more liberal promise with regard to the integration of the Swiss railway system within the same legislative context in which it also exists in the Union.
Lastly, agreement on a number of improvements which can be made immediately on access and transit opportunities for 40 tonne lorries.
Particularly as far as the tolls for driving on Swiss roads, to be set in 2001 and 2005, respectively, are concerned.
Other complex problems relate to the possible levying of tolls on the four most important passes through the Swiss Alps, a ban on night journeys, and transition quotas for 40 tonne lorries.
So far as the so-called equal treatment is concerned, the Commission can confirm that the principle of nondiscrimination would form an integral part in the future agreement with Switzerland, and that both parties agree on this point.
The Council is now looking at the possibility of including an Alpine clause, so that within certain obvious limits, and under certain conditions, a higher user's levy could be applied on the relevant Austrian route, a higher user's levy than the average charge.
This clause, combined with a satisfactory outcome to the negotiations with Switzerland, is intended to help spread traffic over the entire Alpine region in a sustainable way, and that this is maintained.
It would be much more useful if agreement could be reached within the Union about the Transport Protocol in the Alpine Convention.
No doubt this matter will be looked at again during the next Transport Council in March, after which the Commission will obviously inform this Parliament of the latest developments via the usual channels.
I hope that the esteemed members of Parliament will understand this, and I for my part will of course try to formulate an answer to specific questions at the end of this debate.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Thank you, Mr Tomlinson.
Votes Mr President, this is a short but very complicated report which generated a high level of consensus on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
d'Ancona report (A4-0402/97) Mr President, the aim of what is called the Eurodac Convention is to set up a European database of fingerprints of asylum seekers, in order to determine, pursuant to the Dublin Convention of 15 June 1990, which is the Member State of first application, and consequently, which Member State is responsible for examining the application.
The Europe of Nations Group is overall in favour of this Convention, under the inter-governmental system of the present Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union.
But as these people change their names each time, it is difficult to detect them other than by fingerprinting.
However, the Council has had the bad idea of putting a finger into the Community pie, making the Court of Justice responsible, providing funding from the European budget and consulting the European Parliament on the whole thing, although in our opinion according to Article K.6, it did not have to.
Of course, we are opposed to these amendments.
On the other hand, we think the setting up of Eurodac should be seen in the light of the opportunity to achieve such a generous and humane asylum policy within the European Union.
We are very critical of the Council's proposal to set up the Eurodac database.
Every application for asylum must be dealt with separately, regardless of whether the asylum seeker has previously sought asylum in another EU country.
Our view is that refugees should have the same right of personal integrity as our citizens.
It must also be clear that no data on people who have received a residence permit in one of the EU's Member States should remain on the database.
The draft report directs substantial criticism against Eurodac with which we agree.
We are therefore voting for the report in its entirety in the final vote.
However, we have voted against certain parts of the report.
Today the Danish Social Democrats voted for a report concerning the setting up of a database (Eurodac) of the fingerprints of asylum seekers.
Eurodac can also help prevent asylum seekers becoming political footballs between the different countries because no-one will accept responsibility for dealing with their case.
The National Front has always and will always fight against illegal immigration.
The Eurodac computerised system of recognition of the fingerprints of asylum seekers, makes it possible to bring together any legal or criminal information about them, and thus enables a Member State to have some control of asylum requests.
On sight of the personal data available on an individual, the Member State can grant or conclusively refuse an asylum application.
The aberration imposed by the Treaty of Amsterdam, which brings the laws and internal affairs of Member States within the scope of the Community, is once again apparent here, in all its splendour.
We have had the Europe of Schengen, which removed the internal borders of the European Union, and here we have the Europe of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is removing its external borders.
We think that every application for asylum should be dealt with separately, regardless of whether the asylum seeker has previously sought asylum in another EU country.
We therefore question the basis of the Eurodac system, the aim of which is that an application for asylum should only be dealt with in one country.
In Mrs d'Ancona's report substantial criticism is directed against Eurodac, criticism which largely corresponds with our views.
We have, however, voted against all parts of the report which mean that the Commission would be responsible for the database.
The European Commission is a body which is under very weak democratic control.
Erika Mann report (A4-0403/97) We have voted for the resolution because we think it would be correct to develop economic and commercial relations with the USA.
Furthermore, the report rightly emphasizes the positive effect, which the information society can have on rural areas.
Once again, may I emphasize the danger that these new technologies could facilitate the relocation of part of the service sector of the European Union to countries where wages are low and social protection is poor?
European companies are already having their accounts or customer service departments transferred to India or Singapore.
This document has the merit of analysing the consequences of the emergence of new information and communications technologies (ICT) on cohesion and on the various regions of the European Union.
As the excellent report by my colleague, Mrs Sierra González stresses, it is not certain that they will create more jobs than they destroy.
We must therefore make an effort with regard to infrastructure and encourage the creation of networks.
As Mrs Sierra González' report rightly emphasizes, barely 2 % of the structural funds have the right finality.
Access to new information and communication technologies can be facilitated if we make room for them in schools, libraries and public centres.
The explosion of these new technologies can be perceived in our daily lives.
As a mayor and MEP, I already find them very useful in the service of my fellow citizens, for management and as a means of communication.
In the introduction to her report, Mrs Sierra González states that the information society is the most significant economic, cultural and political challenge of these final years of the century.
The spread of technology does not mean automatic sharing of opportunities and the enormous benefits.
The development of the information society absolutely must be complemented by adequate political action which guarantees even development across all the regions of the European Union.
This is because there are countries where the culture of the information society is more widespread than elsewhere, and naturally they have greater opportunities to utilize the new technologies and advance and prosper in this new work environment.
Mr President, many of the less developed regions of the European Union suffer from the problem of peripherality.
Technological advance particularly in the context of the information society is one method of overcoming the problem of geographical dislocation.
Information and communication technologies have a significant contribution to make to boosting both the overall competitiveness of Europe and also improving regional cohesion.
Our rapporteur is therefore right to emphasize the need to give all regions an opportunity to invest in telecommunications and information infrastructures.
This sector is as important as training and vocational qualifications and/or the role played by the public and private sectors.
The abolition of state support and the limited Community subsidies, which for example provide financial assistance for telecommunications from the structural funds only to an extent of 2 %, operate to prohibit indiscriminate access to all the information available on the network and equal and impartial conditions of connection and interaction.
Waddington report (A4-0405/97) I was very interested to read the report by Mr Waddington, whom I wish to congratulate.
Whereas the Luxembourg Employment Summit in November concentrated mainly on training, the rapporteur has rightly observed that there is a wide gap between the political commitments and the proposals made by the Commission in this area.
Like him, I would like some serious proposals from the Commission.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted for a report on access to continuing training in the European Union.
If we do not pay attention to these challenges it will cost jobs in Europe.
Hermange report (A4-0292/97) We have reason to thank the rapporteur for carrying out the work on this report.
We voted against this resolution.
In this report, Mrs Hermange gives employees a real economic dimension, which we cannot fail to applaud.
We should encourage this form of popular capitalism, and develop measures that encourage the participation of workers in the capital of firms.
And nor is it a question of whether or not you trust in the goodness of the policies and measures proposed on which reports will be made in this Parliament.
Clearly, our concept of social relations is not compatible with the illusion that other concepts, or the lack of them, insist there are no social classes or that, although they exist, their interests and objectives in private company economic activities are coincidental, converging or simply non-conflicting.
We would review this position if it were not confirmed by reality.
For that reason, our vote is not against the excellent intentions, of those who hold them, but cannot be in favour of an illusion that is revived and that aspires to communicate with those who do not need them, or who should flee from them, like a scalded cat.
As regards the Kurdish refugees we have established that, on the one hand the EU Presidency and the EU Council of Ministers say in December that Turkey has no concrete prospect of joining the Union, rightly to my mind, partly because of the fact that the Kurdish issue is not being dealt with in a political manner.
In my own country, in Belgium, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that because there is a hunger strike, we will investigate the political question which this problem poses, whilst on the other hand it was stated a long time ago that it is a political problem.
But in any case, the fundamental line taken by the European Union was not the recognition of the fact some political refugees from the region might come here.
If we are going to conduct international and internal politics in these terms within the EU, we are absolutely on the wrong track.
Let us not forget that the Kurds have always been the great slaughterers of Syrian, Chaldean, Nestorian and other Armenian Christians, and that quite recently (no later than 1984), they perpetrated massacres in Southern Anatolia.
This influx of refugees, or false refugees, poses Europe a problem of incoherence.
Firstly, it is not by chance that this problem has come to light today, when Italy has only been an integral part of the 'Schengen space' since 26 October 1997.
This experience shows us that Schengen provides an additional incentive for illegal immigrants, and takes away the responsibility of the first host country.
Secondly, we are told that this type of situation would not occur if the right of asylum were harmonized throughout Europe.
It is in fact exactly the same, that is, an extended right of asylum, as the proposal on refugees recently submitted to the Council by the Commission, shows.
Thirdly, the proposals for a European refugee policy (of which the resolution adopted yesterday by the European Parliament is a good example) consists above all, of sharing responsibility between the Member States for welcoming and providing for refugees.
That is why the European refugee policy should be: 1) To maintain controls at internal borders in order to ensure Member States accept responsibility; 2) To keep to a strict definition of the right of asylum; 3) To organize cooperation in order to provide financial aid for Member States who play a disproportionately large part in the supervision of external borders; 4) To find solutions other than allowing refugees to settle in the EU, if they are from countries far from our immediate area: on the contrary, such refugees should be sent to third countries able to offer them a suitable asylum, even if we have to provide aid to such countries.
The Kurdish problem will continue to get worse and to come up before us so long as the Turkish authorities persist in their flagrant violation of the fundamental human rights of an entire people, stubbornly refusing to progress towards the search for a political and peaceful solution of the Kurdish issue by direct negotiations with all the representative bodies of the Kurdish people.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted for a resolution on Kurdish refugees.
The unhappy and tragic situation of the Kurdish refugees has highlighted the need for cooperation on refugee policy in the EU.
In reality fewer than 1, 000 Kurds are involved, and the total number of asylum seekers actually fell in the EU in 1997.
I have voted against the joint resolution because it follows the Italian Government's approach of taking a favourable view of asylum applications from citizens of Kurdish origin.
In the case in point, there has been a classic initial flow of Kurdish immigrants from different countries - together with other clandestine immigrants from the Maghreb, China, Sri Lanka, Egypt, and so on - impelled by economic reasons.
The principle of asylum on an ethnic basis is not manageable either in the case of the Kurds, which constitute an ethnic grouping of over twenty million people, or in the case of the many peoples who, for religious, linguistic, political or economic reasons, are persecuted by other peoples or by other majorities.
Suffice it to mention the case of the Tibetans in China, the Tamils in Sri Lanka, the Tutsi in Central Africa, the Chiapas Indians in Mexico, and so on.
The ethnic political criterion, with the individual exception of genuine victims of political persecution, like Leyla Zana or Wei Jing Sheng, must be dropped because it will lead to unforeseeable and uncontrollable developments.
Sainjon report (A4-0392/97) The Sainjon report provides quite a dull vision of relocation, perhaps because, from the start, its had chosen to stick to an overly limited definition of this issue: according to the report, relocation only takes place when a contractor - head of a company - deliberately decides to move production, by direct investment, subcontracting or trading, to a country where social costs are lower.
But I must emphasize that the British success in combating unemployment - now 5 % - is certainly due in part to having attracted economic activities which were once carried out in neighbouring continental countries.
In other words, the experiment would probably be less successful if France and Germany had also adopted the same policies.
These proposals are interesting but, in our opinion, unlikely to straighten out the situation.
The report submitted to us overlooks the conflictive dimension of international economics and the effects of the domination of a large power which has an interest in unrestrained free trade.
The real cause of relocation is this policy, whereby the costs of production and wages around the world are extremely heterogeneous.
The report only superficially analyses the consequences of relocations on employment in Europe, and underestimates their negative effects.
I shall therefore vote against this report.
These relocations are based on competition between populations, and they speculate on social and wage differentials.
There are also used by employers as a means of pressure and bribery so that they can apply pressure on employees and jobs.
In France, the three sectors most affected - the textiles, shoe and electronics industries, have lost half the number of their employees in 15 years.
The report by the Committee on External Economic Relations, which I approve, makes other proposals which could contribute towards reducing relocations, or which could at least prevent their most injurious consequences in terms of employment and purchasing power.
I am pleased, from that point of view, that the report has adopted our group's amendments, on the one hand, with regard to the inclusion of social and environmental clauses in international agreements and in the WTO rules, and on the other hand, that the multilateral agreement on international investment currently being negotiated within the framework of the OECD should not hinder the right of States to monitor human rights and the environment with regard to multinational companies operating within their countries.
The report calls on the Commission to draw up a code of conduct for multinational companies based on a number of social obligations.
The code of conduct will be based on the following points: the promotion of trade union freedom-combating forced labour-combating child labour-the elimination of discrimination in employment and careers, and equal pay for men and womenThe Danish Social Democrats are positive towards the proposal, because this proposal can contribute to a fairer labour market in third countries and ensure fair competition in a globalized economy.
The report mentions that social harmonization should be speeded up.
The proposals made by the Sainjon report are like putting a wooden leg in plaster.
The rapporteur writes, ' relocation is a logical economic development, which should not be approached from an ideological point of view' .
And the measures, mostly optional, which it envisages to remedy the negative effects of relocation do not seem equal to the economic and social problems generated in our countries by a procedure closely connected with the whole-hearted adoption of the principle of free trading.
We have seen that, in order to really measure the consequences of relocation in our countries, it essential for the approach to the question to be much wider than the rapporteur's.
The process of relocation is in reality fundamentally unilateral.
We want to tell Parliament that falsifying the balance sheet is not sufficient to join the single currency... (The President cut off the speaker) Alpine transit (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on Alpine transit.
Mr President, since the failure of Switzerland to join the European Economic Area, negotiations between the European Union and Switzerland have covered various sectors.
The long term objective of a progressive transfer of traffic from road to rail is supported and in this sense the financial commitment of the Swiss government is much appreciated, just as we share the Swiss concerns about the environment - and Parliament has made its views known on that point many times.
So the planned infrastructure solutions must be speeded up as much as possible and to this end the Government of Swiss Confederation should be asked, in the negotiations, to move in that direction.
To conclude, the agreement currently in force expires in 2004.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking about transit today, we are, of course, also going to be talking about the fact that for 40 years in Europe we have supported a common market and that we have therefore always promoted a society based on the principle of the division of labour.
The European Union has always supported the principle of the shortest route and that means that we need the appropriate transit routes through Switzerland.
In terms of the Alps in general, we have a set of very different rules.
The European Union is also suffering from another obsession, that of wanting to control and dictate the internal policies and relations of other countries, and wanting to force them to accept bad regulatory systems which belong in the Union.
Switzerland is a free and sovereign State.
The fact that Switzerland is advanced in this area and is ahead of the European Union is due in part to the fact that Switzerland is a real democracy where the citizens' awareness of environmental policy can be expressed.
It is high time that people took a different level of responsibility, both within the Union and in attitudes to other, more advanced countries, countries where the sacred market does not have the same paramount position as it has unfortunately been given in this Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my country the transit agreement between Austria and the EU was a central prerequisite for entry into the EU.
Just a few years later we have come to realise that in hoping these hopes millions of people in our country failed to reckon with the Commission.
Millions of Swiss have done the same and voted to changed their law in a referendum.
How can I understand - and we are trying to understand it better through this debate - that the agreement is still something to come and therefore the traffic can only find outlets in other areas, on other routes of communication like the very important one which links the Val d'Aosta with France and which is at risk, if things carry on this way, of gridlock and calls for doubling the width of the Mont Blanc motorway which would be catastrophic for the countries, the valleys and the citizens who inhabit the regions the motorway must cross.
I hope the large groups will accept the amendments tabled by the group of the European Radical Alliance and thus take the opportunity - in this debate on the problem of Alpine transit, as we have defined it, but not agreed with Switzerland - to insert two or three paragraphs which broaden the context and highlight the need for combined transport rather than taking a mere sectoral view of the problem.
In that case I would like him to tell me to what extent these statements are compatible with the Green Paper, and the recent proposals for the Euro-sticker.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the starting point for our discussion are the negotiations with Switzerland.
However, Switzerland must also fit into the overall European picture.
The step-by-step transfer of traffic from road to rail is the founding principle of European traffic policy.
And in the interests of our environment and our population we must deviate not from it.
Our goal must obviously be a general reduction in the level of traffic on the roads.
But this goal cannot be achieved by simply blocking off one country and diverting the traffic into others.
There are certain countries which are represented in the Council and exert more resistance there.
Fourthly: No single country in the EU should be placed in a worse position than Switzerland in terms of the levying of charges, tolls, etc.
If these principles are observed it must surely be possible to create a reasonable European traffic policy and to use the instruments available, including the toll, to create an environment- and therefore people-oriented traffic policy for the whole of Europe.
Mr President, firstly I should like to express my pleasure that Switzerland is moving ever closer to the European Union and that the European Union is making every effort to move this country at the very heart of Europe closer to Europe.
Mr President, the Greens are asking the EU and the Federal government in Germany to strongly support Switzerland's plans for the introduction of an output-related heavy goods vehicle tax and an alpine transit tax in order, at long last, to move forward on the protection of the alpine habitat and the transfer of heavy goods transport from road to rail.
It would appear the Messrs Jarzembowski and Ferber, in particular, have not quite grasped this point.
The Alps provide a reservoir of potable water; one which we need.
That's why they are being asked to do something in the heart of Europe, in the foothills of the Alps in southern Germany.
At the present time the situation is such that most of the accent is being placed on the Munich-Verona route where an impossibly expensive, 20 km long mega tunnel is being proposed.
Some 30 % more lorries travel through the Brenner than through the Swiss passes.
In a verbal supplementary amendment we, together with our Austrian colleagues in the Social Democratic Party, are therefore asking the Commission to ensure that in matters of alpine transit no EU Member State is placed in a worse position than Switzerland.
The Commission must not shy away from its responsibility to the Member States and to the population, especially in regard to such a sensitive region as the main ridge of the Alps.
But we would much prefer an agreement between the parties concerned, and we will continue to work towards this.
The next matter, Mr President, the comments which have been made regarding the inclusion of external costs or not.
We are talking about sums of 410 Swiss francs for a 40 tonne lorry travelling from between Basel to Chiasso.
But the comforting phrase I wanted to utter is that this Commissioner is responsible within the Commission for the relations with Switzerland.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we now have an opportunity finally to end this House's debate on improving the efficiency of development aid.
Better coordination involving all the players involved in development, good internal coherence between the various instruments of development policy, and better visibility, are certainly not aims in themselves, but they are means to ensure that more citizens of Europe accept the idea of the need to continue to ensure cooperation between the European Union and developing countries.
The Development Assistance Committee of the OECD provides a more or less satisfactory answer to this, by proposing to use as development aid evaluation criteria, pertinence, efficiency, impact of the development and durability.
Efficiency is measured in relation to the expected result and the situation of the beneficiaries, and also in terms of unexpected results or negative effects.
The impact of a development programme must relate to the medium term and well as the long term.
Mr President, all the evaluations of development programmes to which my written report refers show some interesting trends, and in particular, I will quote three examples - the small but positive impact of European Commission development aid on the economic growth of receiving countries, the increase in the average life expectancy resulting from improved health indicators, which is appreciable, and thirdly, the not very durable nature of a large number of development programmes.
This list is not exhaustive, but I have selected some examples, which adequately illustrate the need to continue the evaluation work.
The measures in favour of human rights and democracy already undertaken by the Commission, not only send European development policy in the right direction, they also to some extent raise the question of conditional aid.
Fourthly, the crucial role of women in developing countries must finally be recognized.
It will enable us to prepare even more substantial projects with regard to evaluation, which seems indispensable to me, and is the very essence of this report.
Mr President, before anything else I would like to stress that when we talk of ECHO we are talking about a very young organization, which in a very short time has managed to forge an excellent reputation.
ECHO was created in 1992, therefore it can only call upon five years of experience.
Since it began ECHO has faced up to considerable problems: the war in Yugoslavia, Rwanda, the refugees in northern Iraq and here I am only giving three examples which have required outstanding efforts and without ECHO being allowed to enjoy a long apprenticeship period.
In its special report, the Court of Auditors confirms that the outcome has been successful.
ECHO, in the first five years of its existence, has acquired an important wealth of experience which ensures that it will be in the forefront amongst international organizations dedicated to the question of humanitarian aid.
Similarly, that front line role is confirmed by the facts and figures: in 1996, the rate of participation in ECHO was higher than 20 % of the total of the world's humanitarian aid.
If we add to this percentage the efforts of the Member States we confirm that the European Union is, outstandingly, the highest donor in the world.
The European Union has provided about half of the world's humanitarian aid, more than ECU 1.6 billion in 1996.
Unfortunately these endeavours are carried out in a diverse way.
The Court of Auditors has confirmed that, quite simply, there is a lack of coordination and cooperation between the Community and its Member States, as well as between the Member States themselves.
The result is that the Union and its Member States often waste their energy and cannot pull their weight as they might, and ought to, do.
It is in this context in which the proposal from the Court of Auditors, for a charter regarding humanitarian aid, has acquired its full importance.
Such a charter might be useful to stimulate a debate about the need for cooperation between the Community and its Member States, as well as about the principles which ought to govern such cooperation.
All this is urgent and necessary since the Treaty of Amsterdam makes no reference to humanitarian aid, which means at the moment there is a lack of a true foundation document.
I must add that the way to arrive at such a charter as well as the subsequent debate will show, would be as important as the result.
For example, in the framework of an interparliamentary conference.
In a much more general area, it is a question of being aware of the fact that humanitarian aid often takes place in complex, crisis situations.
A Charter for humanitarian aid might be the formula for a greater awareness about this phenomenon.
Secondly, about 45 % of the credit made available by ECHO is used by non-governmental organizations.
The Committee should strive to rectify these imbalances since there are strong agreements with the NGOs in France and Belgium while these agreements should be made stronger with NGOs in Germany and Portugal, for example.
The key word given by the Court of Auditors in this context of evaluation is independence.
What is clearly shown is that if the Development Committee and the Budgetary Control Committee met more often we would have a lot more to say.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Goerens on his report, and on his extremely balanced resolution in particular.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate gives us the opportunity to examine the unprecedented aid, which the Commission has deployed in more and more difficult areas in crisis with relatively limited means, whereas the Member States are slowly withdrawing, bringing more and more pressure to bear on the European Community.
It also enables us to see the considerable progress made by the creation of ECHO in the management of humanitarian aid.
But as well as the fact that we would not really know what legal status to give it, I believe that the Council regulations and the Commission communication of 1996 constitute a coherent system.
Mr President, there are no half measures where human rights are concerned and, in the specific case of the right to life, which when you lose it you can never get it back, you know, Mr President, that moderation becomes a vice when it stands back.
Therefore it is important that this Parliament - I said it on 24th of December, I repeated it on 6th of January in the Foreign Affairs Committee, I put it to my political group again afterwards, and today I will say it again before the full session - this Parliament has to speak up to condemn unreservedly this slaughter which has shaken public opinion throughout the world.
As well as vehemently condemning this barbaric act and showing solidarity with the families of the victims, this Parliament should also condemn every form of human rights' violation and violence, regardless of who is responsible for such criminal acts.
Mexico, under the mandate of President Zedillo, is today immersed in a complex and unfinished process of reform.
Many things have changed in that country since the elections of the 6th of July last, but there are other things which have not changed so much: violence, insecurity and impunity.
These measures should not be considered exceptional as they serve as a model for normal behaviour in any legal system.
The slaughter of 45 Indians at the end of December, and the continuing troubles from that moment on show that the problems caused by paramilitary actions and lawlessness have not yet been solved.
The fact that the Home Affairs Minister and the governor of Chiapas are no longer there is a good thing, but much more will be needed to exonerate the authorities and the army.
As there are indications that there are contacts between the paramilitary groups and political circles, the government will have to exercise the utmost vigilance, and will have to take action against the paramilitary groups and punish them.
The Mexican government has already committed itself to this as part of the agreement recently agreed between the Union and Mexico.
To conclude, Mr President, a remark about the situation in Chiapas.
The San Andrés agreement must be complied with, and the dialogue between the ZNLA, the Zapatistas, and the government must be resumed.
That is why the dialogue which has been severed since 1996 must be resumed in order to procure a lasting political solution.
Mr President, the violent death of 45 defenceless people, most of them women and children, in the Mexican town of Acteal on 22nd of December last, once again presented us with a Mexico which is showing its deepest divisions in the state of Chiapas, where a rich Mexico and a poor, unequal and disadvantaged Mexico live uncomfortably side by side.
The real situation in Chiapas today needs to be analyzed rigorously and sincerely.
We cannot dismiss what is happening in Chiapas with a simplistic analysis or with western standards because very serious errors may be made.
I acknowledge the role of the Mexican Army in disarming the paramilitary groups and its activity in the distribution of aid to refugees; but all their efforts should be increased so that there are no armed confrontations between the Mexican regular army and Zapatista insurgents.
If this confrontation should unfortunately occur, its consequences would be unpredictable.
Mr President, when we tabled this resolution, there may still have been some doubt as to whether the Mexican authorities were responsible for the massacre at Acteal.
That is why I believe that this House should take up this issue, and although many of us do not share the romantic fascination, which the archaic left-wing notions of the Zapatista movement have for some, this House should loudly condemn the Mexican authorities, and exhort them to finally open a debate on the many problems, particularly with regard to property, which they face in the state of Chiapas.
Also they provide evidence for the lack of respect for human rights in that country and, of course, the explosive situation in the state of Chiapas.
Europe should contribute to making Mexico a democracy which fully respects human rights, and we have to demand this, above all else, from President Ernesto Zedillo and his government.
We have to demand the same clarity here for Parliament, for the Council and for the Committee, and we have to ask for an international agreement in respect of human rights in Mexico and for the Committee to inform us about this issue in a regular and organized way.
This is the reason why our resolution calls upon this Parliament to suspend the procedure for ratification of the bilateral agreement concluded last December between the European Union and Mexico, until President Zedillo meets the demands which were expressed before, and I think that we ought to ask national parliaments to take similar action.
Mr President, the callous slaughter of 45 people at Acteal in the state of Chiapas in Mexico shocked human rights workers round the world.
Mr President, as I have been to Chiapas, and maintained regular contact, both with militant Zapatistas and many Mexican progressives, I can bear witness to the hope engendered, in Mexico, by the San Andrés agreements of February 1996.
The culture of indigenous peoples should be recognized as an integral part of the diversity of Mexico, and their participation in its political life should be guaranteed.
It is my conviction that basically the non-respect of these agreements was the main cause of the dramatic worsening of the situation in the state of Chiapas.
Now, the worst has happened, and in the massacre at Acteal 45 people died on 22 December 1996.
It is within this context that I wish to pass on the express request of many important people in Chiapas and in Mexico in general, that is, that the partnership and cooperation agreement signed on 8 December 1997 between the European Union and Mexico, should be suspended, until the Mexican authorities dissolve these paramilitary groups, condemn the murderers, withdraw the Mexican army from the indigenous areas, and more generally, fulfil their commitments, or in other words, implement the San Andrés agreement, so that the populations of the state of Chiapas may at last achieve peace, justice and democracy.
Mr President, the European Commission naturally shares the horror and dismay about the murder of 45 people in the village of Acteal in the Mexican state of Chiapas.
This means that the hope for a peaceful solution to the conflict in Chiapas has further decreased, but cannot take this lying down, we of course.
The European Union also pointed out that in the agreements between the European Union and Mexico, signed in Brussels on 8 December, both parties undertook to observe human rights and democratic principles unconditionally.
The governor of the state of Chiapas has been removed from office, and a number of people who are suspected of being involved in the murders have been arrested.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The Socialist Group warmly welcomes the initiative taken by the British Presidency to seek to establish a code of conduct on arms exports.
It is also essential for the defence industry itself, because the lack of a code of conduct is holding back the consolidation which the industry needs and which will make it less dependent on exports, as I pointed out in my report to this Parliament a few months ago.
We also have to recognize three other issues essential for the effective working of a code of conduct.
The British Presidency has announced a code of conduct, but this code of conduct must not become a feeble compromise.
Bilateral agreements are not the solution, because they offer too many opportunities for secret deals .
A UN arms sale register is a useful instrument for increasing global transparency regarding arms supplies.
To regulate and control the export of arms to countries at war, to countries which do not respect human rights and to unstable regions allows us to indirectly intervene, avoiding an escalation of conflict in such areas.
If we also establish a clear, unambiguous code which limits the type of arms and technology which can be exported, as well as agreements with other exporting countries - not forgetting companies and other trading countries - we will have taken an important step forward.
Mr President, the manufacture, sale and exportation of arms are activities which have never had a very good press, but which still make very good profits for those engaged in them.
The fact that a majority of the EU's Member States have at least signalled their readiness for a code of conduct is gratifying.
It is surprising because for a small country it is more advantageous to have an arms market which has rules than one which is unregulated.
The present EU regulations concerning arms exports, which are based on the eight points agreed in 1991 and 1992, have not turned out to be very effective.
The Commission is distinctly in favour of stricter rules, which make up a clear framework for the discussion about the arms trade.
We also favour an improvement in the exchange of information and consultation procedures between the Member States.
In the resolution the Commission is asked to draw up a White Paper on arms exports, and the services of the Commission are presently working on this.
This document evaluates the position of the European Union in the global arms trade, and discusses the role of the Union in the arms exports policy up until at the present time, and presents a number of options for future action.
It will also pay attention to the increasingly important issue of illegal trade in small and light arms.
The British Presidency is determined to make active progress on the road to a restrictive and more transparent European Union arms export policy.
I myself raised the subject at the recent visit of the European Commission to the British Presidency in London, and Foreign Secretary Mr Cook assured me that he is presently holding bilateral negotiations with a number of Member States in order to speed up the process towards this code of conduct as much as possible.
The Commission for its part is prepared to support any initiative which will lead to such a code of conduct being established, and the White Paper is intended as a contribution to these efforts.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The European Parliament has already come out absolutely firmly against any form of cloning for purposes of reproduction of human beings and passed a clear resolution on the subject on 12 March 1997.
It is also important to organize a world conference on the issue, in order to reach a common position condemning cloning of human beings.
It smacks of lack of respect for the dignity of the species which governs this planet, even if it does fall into a thousand difficulties and errors.
It would be unacceptable, whilst the emotion created by this business is still high, in the name of natural morals or ethics, to set a limit to the research which can be carried out on the genome, soon perhaps to include certain forms of cloning.
Commercial pressure is certain to destroy any research, whose aim is above all to promote social wellbeing.
The subject was already widely discussed in March 1997 and in the draft directive on patents.
Although the cloning of human beings is contrary to the dignity of the human being, the cloning of cells or tissues may make it possible to combat hereditary diseases.
That is the question addressed by the previous speaker and which we must now define.
Both in the vote on the Patent Guidelines in June and within the context of the Fifth Research Framework Programme in December we found a clear definition.
For this reason we are very shocked by amendment 1 proposed by Mr Bowe, Mr Monfils and others which rules out cloning for the purposes of reproduction only.
We shall therefore vote for this text, but we would however like to emphasize an important aspect.
And here today someone is opening new doors to human cloning, because when it is claimed that human cloning is acceptable for therapeutic purposes, that is another broad path towards the final destination which will inevitably be cloning of human beings.
In the vote on the 5th Research Framework Programme we also refused the provision of funds for research which amounts to human cloning.
It is a fact that in the face of headlong scientific progress the legal systems of our countries have found themselves unprepared.
It also seems to me to be essential that we exert some economic pressure!
Considering the many reactions of horror to the plans of the American scientist Richard Seed, the moral undesirability of the cloning of humans in this case appears to be winning against the desire for scientific advance.
Cloning technology leaves nothing to chance, and makes bad copies.
During the discussions on human rights our group has frequently remarked that the freedom of one is bounded by the freedom of another.
I see the new human life which originates in the conjunction between man and women as a unique gift from God.
I sincerely hope that we decide on an absolute, tough position against human cloning.
Mr President, last April over twenty countries signed the Council of Europe Convention at Oviedo, which constitutes the best contribution Europe can make to the world debate on bio-medicine and medical research, but it only represents a first step towards regulating the matter.
Experiments in cloning, but also trade in embryos, gametes and genetic material, are taking place not only in Europe but all over the world without any controls and this demonstrates that it is now urgent to deal with bioethical issues and find solutions.
I do not believe that common position reflects what Parliament has voted and consequently at the second reading of the Rothley report I will retable Parliament's original amendment thus making it, if we pass it, a precondition of the patenting directive that we shall establish a satisfactory ethical committee.
Mr President, I wonder if there is anything original I can add to this debate when virtually everything has been said.
I think it is right to specify general aversion to cloning of human beings at any stage in their development.
My second point is that there is no international document or internal document in the individual European states permitting cloning of human beings.
The European Parliament itself repeatedly expressed its view on this issue right up to the final proposal for a directive on legal protection of bio-technological inventions, but it was already very clear on the subject in 1989 with two resolutions on ethical and legal problems of artificial human procreation and genetic engineering.
In reality the cloning of human beings raises two fundamental principles of law: the principle of human dignity and the principle of equality, equality which presupposes diversity, because equality lies in dignity regardless of the diversity which makes each of us unique.
My final point is this: we can certainly ask whether it is right for a Parliament to be concerned and take action to repeat things already said in television or newspaper statements.
It would have been much better to have talked about the atom bomb before building it.
We immediately voted in a resolution prohibiting human cloning, which we feared that Dolly would lead to - which was obviously true.
But what is more serious is that as time has passed, the emotion has died down, and now one can hear, in this House and elsewhere, more moderate statements to the effect that some forms of human cloning would be acceptable.
Cloning of human beings must be totally banned for reasons which have been widely discussed and which are, of course, related to human dignity and the eugenic threat.
Ingusci Mr President, first of all I would like to say how pleased I am that we are discussing Ingushetia today.
Today the situation in this country is very difficult, primarily because it is not one, self-contained area of settlement, but two large enclaves, namely Vladikavkaz and Prigorodny.
Today the situation is such that the UNHCR has asked for our help in resolving it, for considerable funds to provide accommodation so that these refugees are not obliged to live and suffer in these conditions and for our assistance in ensuring that these refugees are able to return to their original settlements.
I would however like to stress that a whole region is involved, not just Ingushetia.
There are other adjoining areas, such as Dagestan.
The European Union, and for a start, the Commission, should perhaps pay more attention to that area, because in my opinion, it will be a source of further conflict.
I think that the Russians have shown that they do not have much intention of changing anything and that the European Union should perhaps make certain suggestions.
I believe that the Commission is able to oppose this type of situation and I hope that the European Union will very soon become deeply involved in this area.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Habsburg and Mr Oomen-Ruijten is rather glib.
However, as well as the individual case of Mr Ngoma and also of Mr Nsala, Secretary General of the Human Rights Centre, we and the other signatories of this document, wish to draw the attention of this House and of the leaders of public opinion in our various countries to the real character of the regime which is being set up under the deceptive name of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
It would certainly have been unrealistic to think that a country, which for very many years, was subjected to an arbitrary and corrupt leadership, would be able, in a few months, to transform itself into a country where the principles of democracy, the values of humanism and respect for human rights would be honoured.
On this subject, I am in total agreement with Bernard Stasi's opinion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two fundamental requirements in our approach to the problems raised by recent developments in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
First, it is absolutely necessary to subordinate any international Community aid to this state to the progress actually made in respect for human rights and the real activation of a democratic process in that country.
Second, it is necessary to maintain this democratic process firmly and in particular help the NGOs working for human rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Indigenous peoples of Australia Mr President, this resolution does not just concern Australia but concerns the worldwide problem of the land rights of indigenous people.
Mr President, this is my first speech from the Green Group in the European Parliament, and I hope you will be gentle with me.
I want this Parliament to be on record that Europe is watching Australia very carefully on this issue, and I hope we can return to it in months to come.
In the case of Australia it is a concrete point we want to raise, namely the fact that the Australian government has decided to start developing the uranium project in Jabiluka, a project situated in a region which is considered a cultural heritage site, and which is recognized by Australian law according as the region belonging to the aborigines.
Besides, and I think it is very important to draw attention to this, the Australian Senate has called on the government to put a stop to this project.
Democratization, openness and humane penalties are the answer to this situation in which a nation has been led into uncertainty on a major scale.
Several countries are following this route, and we are calling on the South Korean government to do the same.
May I take advantage of the presence of Commissioner Van den Broek to ask him whether in the absence of any initiatives by the Member States, the Commission could not, to a certain extent, become a co-ordinator of those in many Member States in favour of an initiative next autumn, at the United Nations General Assembly, for a resolution, and therefore a vote in favour of instituting a universal moratorium on capital punishment.
Mr President, I think it is a terrible shame that a so-called civilized country like the United States has to be criticized in this Parliament.
I agree totally with the last speaker about the fact that a woman is being sentenced to death on 3 February.
Tibet Mr President, on this point, I should first of all like to say to the Commission that our dispute here is getting out of hand.
It is obviously not Commissioner van den Broek who is implicated but Sir Leon Brittan.
Over the last three years, this House has accumulated a number of very specific resolutions on the question of Tibet and the People's Republic of China.
If Sir Leon Brittan gave to these matters just 1 % of the inventiveness and creativity he devotes to economic and commercial matters, I am sure that he would get results.
One of the central demands of the joint resolution is before this Parliament is that a EU envoy should be appointed for Tibet.
We also know that, should an envoy be active in the country, many embargoed dossiers will finally be released.
Mr President, as has been said, the United States Congress and Government have appointed a special representative for Tibet.
The time has come to open direct negotiations between China and the Dalai Lama.
Moreover, the changed international situation has eliminated any real or supposed threat to the frontiers of that country.
Naturally this attitude of Parliament - less propaganda and more politically effectiveness - increases the responsibility of European Union bodies, in particular the Commission and the Council.
Actually, with this initiative on Tibet, we are asking both the Commission and the Council - as colleagues have mentioned - to take a more effective attitude.
We are not happy that the general statements of both the Commission and the Council or their spokespersons are critical and, naturally, speak of respect for human rights, while in reality things go on as they have done up to now.
Mr President, I am very grateful to Mrs Aglietta for incorporating the idea of a special EU representative for Tibet in her resolution and for maintaining it in the joint resolution.
In the case of Tibet we are dealing with a very serious problem of human rights and a very serious problem of a people's right to self-determination.
A clear, unanimous policy is needed from Europe in order to make any impression on the Chinese authorities.
I think the European Commission should take advantage of this.
The most urgent issue in Kenya at the moment is how to combat corruption.
The Commission will have to support the newspapers which expose this, in all sorts of ways.
It will especially have to support non-governmental organizations who wish to promote democracy on all sorts of levels.
These are small things which in my view can have great results.
Mr President, within the framework of the so-called urgent procedure, this House is often called upon to deplore, regret and condemn, and although one swallow does not make a summer, we are also called upon to note the positive conditions under which elections have just taken place in Kenya, in a country everyone agreed was on the verge of a social revolution several weeks ago, and which is certainly not out of the wood.
Whatever one may think of President Arap Moi, of the long time he has spent in politics, of his idea of a dialogue, or of his regional role in certain recent problems, he has been elected.
Mr President, at the end of December, President Daniel was re-elected President of Kenya.
With a little more than 40 % of the vote, he improved his 1992 score by 4 per cent.
The first is that I note, first of all, the 'satisfactory' stamp given to these elections by national observers, and by the President of Uganda, who said, and I hope he was joking, that if the President of Kenya had cheated, he was not very good at it as he only achieved a majority of two seats.
Paragraph 7 of the resolution partially reflects my first reason.
I therefore suppose that this House will agree to show indulgence to Kenya and for many of us, Uganda's approval will make it possible to withdraw the particular vigilance to which others countries have not been subjected.
The second reason is that, as other elections will be held in Africa in 1998, this kind of moderation with regard to countries moving from a single party to a multipartite system should be extended to other countries and Frenchspeaking countries should not treated more harshly by this House than English-speaking countries.
I would to like to start with a response to the debate about human cloning.
It is heartening to note that almost without exception everyone in this Parliament dissociates himself from this practice and also cautions us the developments in this area.
The European Commission has given its opinion on this before and has shown its determination to make a contribution to the prevention of any development in this field.
The group of advisors on the ethical implications of biotechnology has given its opinion on human cloning, and rejects it.
The European Council in Amsterdam in June last year was unambiguous about this, and let it be known that it wishes to dissociate itself from human cloning.
If one observes what is happening internationally on this front in terms of discussions, then we can note we satisfaction that even the G8 Summit in Denver in the middle of last year declared itself against human cloning.
The situation in Ingushetia can be called downright worrying.
We are following the developments via our delegation in Moscow and via our contacts with the United Nations, the OSCE and other international organizations which are working in this turbulent region.
The human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo continues to be closely watched by the European Commission.
It is a positive sign that the government of Congo has given the investigation committee of the United Nations the go-ahead to do its work, and has set up a constitutional committee.
In support of this positive development, the European Commission has decided to remove restrictions on certain actions for the reconstruction of the country, to the direct benefit of the people there.
But on the basis of the contract entered into with the Commission, these actions will be carried out by non-governmental organizations or businesses.
As you know the Commission shares the European Parliament's considerations regarding the death penalty which was also discussed this afternoon.
I will limit myself to the following comments, now that the President-in-Office of the Council has clearly indicated how much importance he attaches to an intensification of the dialogue with China, in particular on issues such as human rights.
The European Union, supported by the European Commission, definitely intends to continue this way with China.
It is important that all groups in society are genuinely represented in this process, and that the necessary consultation takes place with all these groups, and that openness is actively pursued.
The importance of human rights in our relations with Kenya is entirely clear to that country's authorities, and has been raised more than once.
That says something about the situation there.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, in the European Union another attempt on life has been made.
José Ignacio Iruretagoyena, married, father of two very young children, councillor on Zarautz Town Council Government, has been cruelly murdered, victim of a terrorist attack from the criminal group ETA.
I want to record here the permanent support and solidarity that this assembly has shown in regard to this serious problem.
Recently, this chamber received a visit from the family of councillor Miguel Angel Blanco, whose murder by ETA last July filled the squares and towns throughout Europe with great expressions of horror and support for peace.
We also welcomed the family of José Antonio Ortega Lara, a prison officer, whose kidnapping lasted more than 500 days.
The European Parliament itself has moved to the Basque country to demonstrate there to Basque institutions the European dimension of this very grave problem, the most flagrant violation of human rights which exists today in the Union.
We cannot forget how, in the last six months, we have witnessed no less than the kidnap and liberation of Ortega Lara or the murders of democratically elected councillors Gregorio Ordóez, in San Sebastián; Miguel Angel Blanco, in Ermua; José Luis Caso, in Rentería; José Ignacio Iruretagoyena, in Zarautz; and the failed attempt against the San Sebastián councillor, Elena Azpiroz.
This bloodbath and reign of terror have to end.
In this case we share with the family and the fellow countrymen of José Ignacio Iruretagoyena, with the members of the Popular Party who have been attacked themselves, with all the other democratic parties who have felt this death as their own, with the Basque town councils and those in the rest of Spain.
We share these problems with the Basques and the rest of the Spanish people, and we are sure that this resolution will help us to share the values of our European colleagues, as we share with them the values against which ETA and Herri Batasuma fight, that is respect for life and defence of freedom, which make up the soul of Europe.
Mr President, the acts of terrorism in Spain, especially in the Basque Country which I myself know particularly well and which really is one of the most beautiful and best provinces of Spain, have shown that here a terrorist organization is working against its own people and is murdering representatives of that people.
I therefore believe that is important for us as Europeans not just to show our solidarity, but also to discuss the matter and to expect our governments to organise an international campaign, not directed against the Basque people and Spain but, on the contrary, designed to defend these people against further campaigns.
Mr President, firstly, on behalf of my Party, I would like to join in the expressions of solidarity with the family, colleagues and friends of José Ignacio Iruretagoyena.
A violence that you, Mr President, know well through having presided over the Parliamentary delegation which was in Euskadi and where it could verify that terrorist violence is not a local problem but a European problem.
From this Parliament, as one more representative of the citizen's voice, we condemn without any reservations whatsoever this attack and we reiterate our absolute rejection of any type of violence.
In this Parliament we will reject dialogue with all those who collaborate, allow, support and carry out criminal acts.
Local elected representatives seem to have been their preferred target, in the last few months.
Democracy is of course vulnerable, but in Europe, until now, it has won every battle against the tyranny of small groups who attempt to impose their ideology or their vision of the world by violent means.
The Franquist dictatorship could not silence the voice of our people and the people who try to impose their will by means of violence are not going to succeed either, because in history the people's will, freedom and democracy always triumph over pistols.
And the support of the Basque people, the vast majority of their citizens, for these values is undeniable.
We wish to demonstrate solidarity with the family and friends of Iruretagoyena and also our complete solidarity with the Popular Party, a political family to which the murdered man belonged.
Therefore I ask the assembly to vote "no' on point five of the resolution, which makes these paths difficult and has a unilateral and partisan vision of the road to peace, because they have cut down a human life - which is terrible - but we must not let them kill the hope of a whole nation.
The joint debate is closed.
It is an important debate because Community cooperation plus the cooperation of the Member States of the European Union, now represents over 50 % of world public development aid, in which the funds under common management through the instruments of Community action have an increasing role, even if only in relative terms.
Secondly, there is an extremely important diversification of objectives, which should perhaps be reviewed and reorganized but which has also made it possible to intervene on various issues and in various sectors.
In the third place, the fact that the Community, unlike all the other bilateral donors, now operates in all parts of the world, but also - and I want to emphasize this point - the fact that it is often linked to extremely complex decisionmaking procedures, in which the weight of commitology, intervention and pressure is sometimes excessive and sometimes not brought to a positive conclusion by the Member States, plays a role which is not always positive, in fact often contradictory and negative.
In the last few years there has been a process of definition of new legal bases, in particular that for humanitarian aid, which I think resolves many of the comments made by the Court of Auditors regarding the management of humanitarian aid in the period 1992-95.
As regards the functioning of ECHO - as this is the subject of a specific report - in my opinion we should move in the direction of achieving its potential and not towards a watering-down of the functions for which it was created, and, as regards non-governmental organizations, the use of specific criteria for their needs and for the nature of their action must not only be maintained but eventually strengthened.
Mr President, this is an extremely timely report as we move towards the year 2000.
They know the local problems and the solutions without constant referral back to Brussels.
Delegates could organize much better coordination of bilateral aid and Community aid to save duplication.
The report also calls for the principle of conditionality to be applied.
My group fully supports this report.
Mr President, we are today discussing an excellent report on Community development aid and its effectiveness.
Our group fully supports the report's proposals and I wish to just underline the importance of a few points in the resolution.
It is also right to demand greater democracy where appropriate and a respect for human rights, together with greater openness and efficiency in handling the economy, as conditions of aid.
Mr President, this will not sound very original, because I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent and very comprehensive work, and say that the Group of the European Radical Alliance absolutely shares his point of view on budgetarization of the EDF, on improving the visibility of European aid and its political advantages, on internal coherence, which is still inadequate, between the instruments and various types of action, and our various areas of intervention, and finally on ensuring that the development aid policy and other European policies are more complementary!
We are in complete agreement with the report and with the motion for a resolution, on all these points.
What is a priority, what is really urgent, in our opinion, is to put aside neo-colonialism, which is often disguised as bilateral cooperation, and to progress resolutely towards the total inclusion of development policy in the policies of the Community.
Now we have before us, in development aid, a vast terrain in which the political project of a Europe based on common humanist values could finally find a practical dimension.
However, I think that France, taken here as a simple example, would have everything to gain from putting its experience and cooperation resources into the kitty of European aid, so that they can have a significant dimension.
It is my conviction that, if France's influence is not quickly supported by the impact of the European Union, it will disappear behind the influence of the United States of America, as several recent problems have shown.
Mr President, in the necessary endeavours to make EU aid more effective the keyword should be optimization, but examples of a lack of effectiveness must not give grounds for reductions in aid.
EU aid should be a supplement to aid from the Member States, even if it has its own justifications.
I must also oppose the idea of separating the political decision-making from the project management tasks.
On the contrary, these management committees are a quality check.
Furthermore, the reference to food aid in paragraph 7 is unfortunate because the assessment of this was highly critical and will lead to this kind of aid being restricted.
Mr President, this is a very wide-ranging report and there is much in it with which to agree, including the need for a comparative evaluation between EU development projects and those of individual Member States, our long-running demands for budgetization of the EDF, and the need to publicize the very many positive achievements of European aid programmes.
However, let me concentrate on two points in the report.
Last year a third of senior management posts in DG IB, dealing with Asia and Latin America, remained vacant; 40 % of staff in DG I, IA and IB are on short-term contracts, whilst a large number of core tasks are carried out by external consultants.
Until Member States jointly agree a solution to the staffing problem in the Commission, resolutions in favour of aid quality will go little further than the paper on which they are written.
We can agree with the proposed measures in itself, but the European Commission's Green Paper lays the cause of the poor effectiveness first and foremost at the door of the developing countries themselves.
If the Commission's analysis is right, the feasibility studies and impact evaluations within the Union will not improve the effectiveness of aid, but measures will have to be taken first of all in the developing countries themselves.
The European Commission can play a coordinating role in this.
Especially where more structural development aid is concerned, preference should be given to the aid programmes from the Member States.
Many European countries have special relations with certain developing countries.
It seems to me, as a result of their long-standing relations with certain developing countries, the Member States have acquired a wealth of experience, from which an office like ECHO, which with its six years is only just beginning to find its feet, has a lot to learn.
Mr President, I am speaking only to the Fabra Vallés report as a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I would like first of all to remind Parliament that this report is about ensuring that European Union money is spent in the best possible way.
The Committee on Budgetary Control is not trying at all to usurp the role of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
After all, the report is the Committee on Budgetary Control's response to the special report by the Court of Auditors.
The Fabra Vallés report is an attempt to bring closer together the expertise, the experience and the best practices, not only of the European Union but also of the Member States to replace the present sixteen different and uncoordinated systems.
Let us not forget that we are talking about humanitarian aid, not development aid in total.
That true anecdote says a lot about the lack of coordination and cooperation between the Member States and the Union.
Mr President, in this debate on the effectiveness of European Union aid to developing countries and on the much-needed extra aid to developing countries with heavy debts, we have to establish that these themes are very closely related.
This was the first point I wanted to make.
Mr President, my comment is particularly aimed at the Goerens report on the effectiveness of aid.
The reality is that in some cases, aid has had a positive effect, in others it did not, and this is by no means always to do with the quality of the aid; it can also be to do with other things, such as natural disasters, bad management, political destabilization or wars.
That does not alter the fact that it is always good to maximize the effectiveness of aid, and that is why we think the following five points are important.
This obviously does not mean that no more humanitarian aid can be given, but that genuine development aid is simply no longer an option.
This means looking much more closely at Point 14 in which Mrs Fabra Vallés states that we must finally stop recruiting personnel freely when we know that in some cases there are very close relationships between the services in question and certain aid organizations.
When these things are viewed in this light, we would also be making a contribution to transparency and the successful implementation of this aid programme if we were to fall in line with our esteemed rapporteur on this point.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate rapporteur Fabra Vallés and Goerens on their reports which are before us.
The various constructive exchanges have enriched the discussion by introducing ideas towards the future of humanitarian aid.
The Commission shares most of the findings as expressed in draft resolution, and in particular the necessity to improve the coordination between the various agents in the field of humanitarian aid, including the Member States.
But I should also like to respond to two recommendations in the draft resolution, in which the Commission does not share the opinion of the European Parliament.
The Council's regulation of 29 June 1996, but also the Commission's statement on the link between humanitarian aid, rehabilitation and development rectifies this deficiency, we believe, and is also a clear legal framework.
Concerning the creation of a central unit within the Commission entrusted with the evaluation of the external support programmes, ECHO, MEDA, Phare and Tacis, I would like to point out that on 15 October last year the Commission decided to establish a new structure for the management and evaluation of these programmes.
To conclude, the Commission will keep the European Parliament informed of the debate to be started soon on humanitarian aid towards the year 2000, so that your institution will remain well-informed on the topics of general interest which require special attention, such as the security of humanitarian personnel, or humanitarian ethics.
It goes without saying that the Commission will continue to inform this Parliament on the activities undertaken, both in relation to the operations and responsible agents, and in relation to the evaluation of the results.
If one compares the staff resources available in some of the Member States, as well as in other organizations responsible for foreign aid, then it shows the Commission in a disadvantaged position by a factor of 3 or 4 to 1.
At the same time a restriction is imposed on us when it concerns expanding the permanent pool of staff within the Commission.
Let us therefore try to carry out the work as well as possible with the staff resources we have, and not moan too much about having too few staff.
The Commission in fact shares the opinion that it would be opportune to opt for a more global approach, and particularly in cases in which there are crises that, because of their significance and complexity, are of a longer duration, and where the issue is not so much an ad-hoc intervention, but more a structural intervention.
If there are Member States or companies who are less familiar with the region of the countries where implementation is being carried out, and because of this circumstance, qualify less highly, for instance, when submitting a tender for projects, then something can be done about this disadvantage by means of workshops or information given by the Commission.
But I am always ready to have an open discussion, and I am not very convinced that the complaints uttered on this point are always equally justified and well-founded.
Over the years we have made steady progress integrating this principle into our programming procedures.
In Lomé III, the concentration of programmable aid was already introduced in a limited number of areas or sectors.
During the past years, the procedures for drawing up and evaluating activities financed by us have become more elaborate, but also more systematic.
The draft resolution also emphasizes certain themes which are going to play an increasingly important role in aid policy, and in the methodology of drawing up of projects.
Europe can have its own voice, play an important role in the international debate on the effectiveness of aid.
As I mentioned earlier during discussion of the Fabra Vallés report, in the near future the new structure for the external aid programmes will also play an essential part in this process.
This was also raised in the Fabra Vallés report, but I would like to underline once more the importance of intensive coordination between all donors, but above all between the Member States and the Commission.
Within the European Union we should be able to improve mutual cooperation, not only to show a more distinct political profile to our partner countries, but also to increase the success rate of our aid.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to a comment made about aid to the former Yugoslavia in particular.
I will not go into any detail, but in view of the fact that the Frankfurter Allgemeine has in its possession an internal evaluation report submitted by my services, as well as a report which we had contracted out to the consultancy Bereschot, I would like to say that during the past six months, and also as result of the discussions which we have had with Parliament and other donors, we have been working to see how we can make the aid, in particular to Yugoslavia, the redevelopment aid, better and more efficient.
Nevertheless, we are strengthening our delegation in Sarajevo, have gone over our organization in Brussels with a fine tooth comb once again, and have a proposal which will be sent to the Council next week, for which we will request your cooperation soon, to make the regulations referring to reconstruction aid to Yugoslavia more flexible, which will give us more scope to work faster.
The debate is closed.
