Very well, Mr Dell' Alba.
Thank you, Mr McCartin.
Report (A5-0066/1999) by Mr Napolitano, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure following the Interinstitutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 on the internal investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) President.
I have received a request for urgent procedure, in accordance with Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
Madam President, yesterday I made a request, on behalf of my Group and the Liberal Group, and with the express support in the Assembly of the PPE-DE Group, for an urgent debate and the approval of the interinstitutional agreement on OLAF, an agreement which was ratified during the last legislature, which was on the agenda for October and with regard to which my Group and, I believe, the other groups have tried to dispel the legitimate doubts which some of our colleagues may have.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
Mr Barón Crespo has just presented the request.
First of all, I can say that our colleague Barón Crespo, whom I would describe not as an accomplice, but in all our political differences as an esteemed colleague, has given a correct account of the situation, as I explained orally to him, that we also, the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, wish for a vote to be taken on the Napolitano report.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
Mr Barón Crespo has a very flexible view of our Rules of Procedure.
Those present may observe the rich nature of Strasbourg nights and their capacity to cause our internal regulations to increase in number.
Very well, thank you, Mr Dupuis.
Mr Dupuis, you will not be surprised to hear that I spent some time last night studying this matter.
Rule 112 speaks quite clearly of a debate on a proposal on which the opinion of the Parliament is required.
The procedure that leads to this debate and to this decision - in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as well - shows a large number of infringements of the Rules of Procedure.
The large groups have tried to bring about this proposal through the repeated deliberate disregard of the Rules of Procedure.
Now I would like to know if there is any Member who wishes to speak against this request.
That must be our goal.
This proposal for a Council Regulation is an important proposal.
My committee has worked very hard to prepare Parliament's response to this proposal in time for the deadline set down by the Council and in time for the Council to discuss it on 2 December.
This will enable Parliament to give its response in time for the Council to discuss it.
However, if it is not to possible to vote on it today, might we ask the services of Parliament whether it would be possible to have the debate this evening and the vote on the Wednesday of the December part-session to allow us to forward the results to the Council by the Thursday; and might we also ask for the assistance of the Commissioner in intervening with the Council on this matter?
Mr Watson, indeed I have been told that the timing is likely to get us into this sort of situation, such that we cannot vote on the report today.
From the Commission' s point of view, and as far as the timetable is concerned, in order for the dossier to be examined by the Council on 2 and 3 December, Parliament' s vote must take place today.
Mr Pirker, I feel the best course of action, in fact, is to move on quickly to the report.
Madam President, I agree, although I hope that there will be sufficient time to discuss my report this morning.
Mr President, I would just like to remind you that Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, already used for the Napolitano report, stipulates that "except in the cases of urgency referred to in Rules 50 and 112, a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least twenty-four hours previously" .
So allow me to say to those Members who have expressed doubts and concerns that, thanks to these amendments tabled by Members from the European People' s Party, they can vote for this text with peace of mind.
However, I must immediately recall and reaffirm what the mandate given to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was - President Fontaine reminded us too - and the subject of the decision that Parliament has to take.
Personally, I am in the same situation: Parliament gave its President the mandate to sign this interinstitutional agreement on 6 May last year, and it was signed on 25 May.
What you perhaps consider worrying, what you will read, is not a Parliamentary decision; it is the model decision that is part of the interinstitutional agreement, already published - with the identical wording - in the Official Journal of 31 May last year.
Mr President, two questions need to be answered with regard to the new proposal in the Napolitano report.
The first question is: is the proposal in accordance with the rules of the OLAF European Parliament and Council Regulation of 25 May 1999?
The answer to the first question is an obvious "yes" .
The proposal is in accordance with the Regulation.
That is justified because the Members are protected in a special way by the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities in the performance of their duties.
That would have left us time to consider other questions in peace.
I believe, nevertheless, that given the difficult circumstances, Mr Napolitano has drawn up a very good report and I should like to support him in the vote this lunchtime.
We have tried to prevent a healthy, specific political objective from being misinterpreted and misused.
That discussion which we held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the means by which any possible illegal activity could be brought to the knowledge of OLAF, I believe has led us to a suitable means, because a political body must have a filter which can examine whether this information is well-founded or not and whether or not it contravenes the immunity and inviolability of Members.
Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the amendments which we have introduced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs fulfil the objective of reconciling the decision of the three institutions with the characteristics of our own decision.
Please allow me to congratulate two people in particular.
There is a specific reference also in the preamble to the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities and there is a reference to the fact that the relevant article is without prejudice to the confidentiality requirements that may be laid down for Members of the European Parliament.
Our position as Members of the European Parliament is safeguarded in this respect, and Members who had genuine fears that this would be some sort of snoopers' charter or some sort of a new right given to officials to report confidentially on MEPs with wild allegations can rest assured that this is not the case.
If we failed to approve this today, we would be in the untenable situation that only MEPs would be above the law in this respect: a text that applies within the Council to politicians and officials alike, in the Commission to politicians and officials alike, would apply in Parliament only to our officials and not to Members of the European Parliament.
That would be totally unacceptable and would destroy the credibility of this Parliament.
Mr President, I have to say that I fully respect the sincerity and the passion of those who find themselves opposed to this report.
That is an overall authorisation of an authority that not only exposes the Members of Parliament to all kinds of informing but which opens a system of informing and political agitation that makes a mockery of an independent mandate and a free Parliament.
I should like to say to Mr Corbett that a Member of the European Parliament has never been above the law, even if these Rules of Procedure are not changed.
A Member of Parliament can then only if he has this right to refuse to bear witness, keep information to himself and only then will people come to him and tell him something if they know that he must not inform on them.
Mr President, I just wish to observe for the record that, in addition to the consequences of this scandalous interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I have also lost my speaking time.
I had entered my name, I had a lot of things to say, but as a result of this outrageous rigging, I no longer have the right to speak.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 p.m.
Mr President, I am speaking here not only as the rapporteur but also in my capacity as the spokesman of the European People' s Party, but first of all as the rapporteur.
Ladies and gentlemen, I earlier appealed to you all to discuss Eurodac and to vote on it today, because Eurodac is a system that finally enables us to implement the Dublin Convention.
Therefore under Eurodac, every Member State is bound to take the fingerprints of all asylum-seekers, all illegal immigrants who are picked up at the border in order to compare whether an application for asylum has already been submitted anywhere else.
The report as a whole was deemed positive and was adopted in plenary session.
I am against political groupings always trying to present Eurodac as a system that does not help this monitoring, but is a form of criminalisation because fingerprints are taken.
It is not a matter of criminalising somebody, but giving the Member States the responsibility, giving them the duty of dealing with the asylum procedure and also of protecting young people when fingerprints are taken from the age of 14.
I have received from Minister Schily - he is the Minister of the Interior in Germany and a Social Democrat - an urgent plea and an appeal for this Eurodac system to become a reality, with which he went against his own Social Democrats here in the House and against all the others who are attempting not to accept this system.
I am most fervently in favour of it because it takes us towards achieving a common asylum policy for Europe and the Member States are at their wits end over this problem.
We also have here a system against asylum abuse, against illegal immigration.
If the Social Democrats and the Greens vote against Eurodac, then they will bear full responsibility if there is further asylum abuse and illegal immigration.
Mr President, there are days when it seems easy to do one' s job and other days when it is difficult to do one' s job.
This letter arrived in the last few days and it gave rise to a lively debate in the Social Democratic Group that led to us asking you to give us a little more time so that we can finish discussing this controversial subject, in order then to attempt to work with you by consensus.
Liberals in this House have a number of concerns about the draft protocol that was put forward in this draft regulation.
There is the risk that this protocol, this regulation, may be unworkable.
Nonetheless, we believe that the debates in this House, in our committee, have been such that we have a good report drawn up here with the support of most political groups and I congratulate the rapporteur on it.
The Liberal Democrats will support this report.
Turning now to minimum standards: a control policy as proposed is only acceptable if minimum standards apply across all states with regard to the handling of asylum applications.
Within our Green group, a discussion has been opened on the principle of fingerprinting in general.
Maybe in future, a debate could take place on the role of fingerprinting.
It is now being proposed that illegal immigrants as young as 14 years of age should also be covered by the arrangements in question, while the Dublin Convention is concerned only with asylum-seekers.
It is proposed that 14 year-olds should have their fingerprints taken and stored in a register.
We think that this is a departure from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires that we protect children and which recommends 18 years as the age at which, generally, a child is deemed to become an adult.
If a register is to be established, we want it to be possible to take fingerprints only from people of 18 years of age and over.
It is, of course, evident from Protocol No 5 to the Amsterdam Treaty on the position of Denmark, that Title IV of the Treaty does not apply to Denmark, but this is not apparent from the proposed regulation.
Next, I should like to ask the Commissioner if this is to be viewed in connection with what is dealt with in Article 5 of the Protocol I mentioned, namely a decision to build upon the Schengen acquis.
I want to say that this is the most repressive system we have experienced in Europe in this century, at any rate in the perspective of the Nordic legal tradition, and we have had our share of repressive systems.
We will gladly approve the Pirker report and I would ask the rapporteur to consider the criticism that follows as minor criticism of an otherwise sound report which represents a good step in the right direction.
It is completely beyond me why both the Council and Parliament are still a great deal laxer on illegal immigrants than on alleged asylum seekers.
I fear that this illustrates that, according to some, the Eurodac system should serve, perhaps not exclusively but largely, at any rate, to assign a particular Member State the responsibility of footing the bill for a certain level of illegal immigration and abuse of the asylum system, rather than to render such abuses completely impossible.
Mr President, our Group has significant doubts, and reasonable doubts, in relation to the EURODAC report presented.
We have already rejected a report which intended, in unclear terms, and for who knows what reason, to take the fingerprints of the illegal immigrants who arrive in the European Union.
This new proposal says that the fingerprints of illegal immigrants - because we are talking about the extension of the existing EURODAC programme to illegal immigrants - will only be taken in application of the Dublin Asylum Convention, that is to say, only in order to find out whether these immigrants have asked for asylum in another Member State of the European Union.
But we have many doubts about this massive taking of fingerprints - because we believe it will be massive - of people who have crossed borders illegally or who are in an illegal situation in a Member State.
Therefore, we believe that a little more time is needed to carry out the proposed extension of the EURODAC system.
And if they are with their family, that family will enter the system.
Thank you, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
Instead, our priority should be to improve the situation of asylum-seekers in the Member States.
In my own country at the moment the situation for asylum-seekers is completely intolerable.
Basically what we are doing is promoting the whole attitude of xenophobia and victimising people who are already victims.
The report tries to make the protocol sound less threatening, but the principle is exactly the same.
A fortress of suspicion and police repression aligned against the persecuted people of this earth.
Eurodac must of necessity be rejected.
This criticism must be permitted in a democratic structure.
Because we consider that a fair sharing of the burden is an important aspect of asylum policy, we are also in favour of introducing all relevant measures just as for the Dublin Convention and Eurodac.
The rapporteur in his introduction said that the objective is to implement the Dublin Convention and have a system of fingerprinting.
On the age limit, it is sometimes very difficult to tell the age of a young person, but there seems to be a consensus that 18 is a fair compromise.
Certainly we want to ensure that this new system is used to assist the most vulnerable in our society.
I shall also be unveiling a proposal for an instrument on asylum procedures after we have received the opinion of Parliament on our working document towards common standards on asylum procedures.
In particular the most rigorous of data protection standards are required.
When we converted the EURODAC Convention and Protocol into a Community Regulation, we amended it to bring it fully into line with Community law on data protection including the new Treaty Article 286 on data protection arrangements for the Community Institutions.
It is up to the authority provided for in Article 286 to ensure the appropriate and adequate use of these data and the application of Community rules.
The report contains a number of useful amendments which I believe will help us to improve the text of the Regulation.
The Commission can accept amendment No 1 to avoid the term 'alien' and instead refer to third country nationals, although we will have to make it clear that the Regulation also covers stateless persons.
We can also accept amendment No 2 to the title which introduces a reference to the Dublin Convention.
On the minimum age-limit my approach is to stick to the compromise minimum age-limit of 14 years which was agreed in previous negotiations, but to accept your amendment which makes it clear that fingerprinting must be carried out in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
In addition, the age-limit of 14 years was a compromise reached after difficult negotiations.
I can accept this in relation to people who are apprehended irregularly crossing the external border of the European Union and who are fingerprinted under Article 8 of the regulation.
I cannot go that far in relation to data on asylum applicants, but I can accept some of the amendments that have been put forward.
Some Member States consider that a problem arises if people who have been recognised as a refugee in one Member State travel to another Member State and claim asylum there.
If people who have been recognised as refugees in one Member State seek asylum in another Member State this is likely to be because refugees do not enjoy the right to reside in a Member State other than the one in which they were recognised as such.
The Commission does not consider that EURODAC is a measure to build on the Schengen acquis under Article B of the Danish protocol.
We understand that Denmark nevertheless may wish to participate in EURODAC, but it remains to be seen what legal formula could be adopted in that case.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Unfortunately, communications and the information society help the drugs trade.
It is a far more complex, far more widespread problem.
Any unequivocal solution or any solution of an administrative nature which fails to take account of the full extent of the real public health problem and the medical aspects of the matter would therefore be a serious mistake.
What is important is that we improve the indicators, improve the public health aspects and give a larger number of citizens the chance to realise the extent of the threat and stand up to it.
There are different approaches of Member States and there is a multilateral strategy within the UN context.
The fight against drugs equals war.
Thank you very much, Mrs Corbey.
Organised crime plays an increasingly dominant role in drug production and trafficking.
This will allow the Helsinki European Council to adopt an efficient strategy against this disturbing phenomenon.
The main general targets for the European Union's strategy against drugs for the next five years can be summarised as follows: to reduce significantly the prevalence of illicit drug use among young people under 18 years of age; to reduce substantially the number of drug-related deaths; to increase considerably the number of successfully treated addicts and to reduce substantially the number of serious drug-related crimes, including money laundering and illicit traffic in precursors.
Following the Tampere European Council, priority has to be given to the prevention of juvenile, urban and drug-related delinquency and to the progressive harmonisation of European Union legislation on illicit drug trafficking.
In the past, Member States and the Commission have given insufficient priority to the evaluation of anti-drugs activities.
Evaluation must become an integral part of the European Union approach.
The Commission has already begun this evaluation and hopes to do more in the future.
We will, as well, have the possibility of working together with European institutions on the organisation of an interinstitutional conference to discuss the implementation of the European Union drugs strategy, possibly at the beginning of next year.
The Commission's communication represents, in my opinion, a good starting point for a global, multidisciplinary and integrated European strategy to fight illicit drugs on the line that was approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1998.
The observatory in Lisbon and Europol in The Hague are two important instruments that can contribute significantly to our strategy.
I think that a Parliament that is not brave enough to resolve a situation where some Members and millions of European citizens are patently discriminated against, is a Parliament that cannot teach democracy, as it would like to do and should do, to many countries that, this very morning, we have condemned.
It would therefore request the Council to support this proposal in order to smooth the way so that by restructuring and reducing expenditure this year EUR 670 million can be made available for urgently needed foreign policy programmes.
Thank you, Mrs Schreyer.
The words in the English text that we want to vote on separately are "and socially balanced": those are the separate words.
If "fair and socially-balanced" is omitted, then unfortunately the majority of us will have to vote against this report.
Madam President, since the second part is decisive for all of us as to whether we can vote on the first part, I would ask you to vote on the second part first.
Mrs Maes, you will acknowledge that it is rather difficult to vote in order to introduce words into a text on which we have not yet voted.
So we will vote against this amendment and in favour of the original recital.
Free and fair world trade is the basis for the WTO Negotiations - that was my original text.
I feel in any case that it should be "free and fair world trade" .
I think there is some muddle.
Exactly, but we are voting on the removal of two words, first one then the other.
President, we can only vote on the amendment in front of us and the amendment in front of us asks for four words to be deleted.
The original text says, and this is the original text as voted in committee: "Whereas free, fair and socially-balanced world trade must be further developed and consolidated" etc.
Amendment No 11 says in its first part: "Whereas (delete four words)".
The third question is "socially-balanced" , "yes" or "no" ?
If we get to vote on the original text of that paragraph, if we get past the vote on the amendment, at that point I want to propose a vote on the words "and socially-balanced" separately from the rest of the text.
We have this Amendment No 11 from the PPE Group for the removal of these words, and this is what I shall now put to the vote.
Oral amendments require the acceptance of the groups and this group is opposed.
Mr Barón Crespo, if I have understood properly, there is a request for an oral amendment.
I shall now put to the vote Amendment No 11 tabled by the PPE Group.
Indeed they often point out problems of this kind, which are of course most regrettable.
Mr Coûteaux, I think I am going to disappoint you, because I am going to put to the vote the first part of paragraph 30 which goes from "Proposes that the ILO' s Declaration" to "WTO agreement on investment" .
I submitted a great number of amendments in French and signed them myself.
Mr Berthu, there is no wicked anonymous reviser.
Following the vote on Amendment No 70 Madam President, to save time, now that Amendment No 70 from the Europe of Nations Group has been rejected by an overwhelming majority, could you apply the provisions of Rule 130(7), which states that the President may decide, following the adoption or rejection of a particular amendment, that several other amendments of similar content or with similar objectives be put to the vote collectively.
Such a set of amendments may relate to different parts of the original text.
This was introduced into our Rules precisely for this sort of situation.
The decision is, of course, his.
There is no text prohibiting a Member of Parliament re-submitting amendments he considers politically important in plenary, even if they are rejected in committee.
There was a request from our Group for a split vote on the last few words.
I agree those last few words have now been modified by one of the amendments we accepted, but we would still like to have a separate vote on those last few words of the paragraph.
You wish to vote this evening of course.
We can do this very quickly, in fact.
We are putting Amendment No 3 from the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to the vote, excluding "third country national" and "18 years of age" , and we will re-introduce these, if necessary.
Madam President, we shall now have to work very accurately, otherwise the report will have a completely different meaning.
My vote registered that I was in favour of the resolution on the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is very difficult to get attention, which is quite frustrating.
Thank you very much Mrs McKenna.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Report: Napolitano (A5-0006/1999) Mr President, the result has come about after a whole series of infringements of the law.
The solution, obviously, is to give the Court of Auditors jurisdictional power and adequate human and material resources to take on this role.
This is the case of many national audit authorities, not only in France, but in other Member States.
In this matter, as in many others, Parliament has made itself look foolish. - (DE) The fact that fraud control must be taken seriously is beyond doubt because of recent events and also because the interests of the citizens concerned need better protection.
Both in the left wing in power and in the right wing in government.
The names of the cases tell the whole story: Agusta in Belgium, Urba in France, Palermo in Italy, fictitious jobs in the Parisian public transport network - RPR, the Mutuelle nationale des étudiants de France or Dominique Strauss-Kahn.
If we really wish to fight the simple symptoms of corruption, while respecting the foundations of legitimate societies, then there are just two ways: either the technical route, by transforming the European Court of Auditors into a court of law and a court of budgetary discipline; or the democratic route, by creating a body at the heart of the European Union, as in Great Britain and the United States, which is the equivalent of the British "National Accounting Office" (NAO) or the American "General Accounting Office" (GAO).
Secondly, the Commission was given a comprehensive negotiation mandate on a whole series of issues, some of which come under Community jurisdiction, but others, such as services or investment, which are clearly in the remit of national authorities.
That is all very well.
But this study should have been carried out on many other points, such as the impact of liberalisation, in its current form, on the preservation of cultural and social models.
As far as we were concerned, the objective of this report was to give Commissioner Lamy a specific negotiating mandate for the Round due to open in Seattle.
We can find nothing acceptable to us in it on the subject of intellectual property rights relating to trade.
However, large numbers of the poor in the developing countries have still not benefited from free world trade.
The overarching objective in section 37 ought therefore to be that of completely phasing out customs duties on non-agricultural products.
It is therefore important that weight be given to section 10 in the negotiations. - (FR) The European delegation to the WTO negotiations claims to be the defender of the interests of Europe.
In fact, it is merely the representative of the most powerful industrialists and financial groups in the European Union, rivals to the American or Japanese trusts in systematically bleeding the planet dry, but all concerned exclusively with increasing their profits at the expense of the workers in their own countries and peoples in poor countries.
But what of the protection of workers, particularly against the tragedy of unemployment, even in the richest countries of the European Union, precisely those which would easily have adequate means to eradicate unemployment if their governments were not concerned primarily by the profits of big business and by making owners and shareholders wealthy?
Instead of forcing these multinationals to comply with minimum social legislation, they are going to be content with inviting a few ILO officials as observers to the WTO negotiations.
While, however, the Fifteen have recently adopted a joint negotiation policy in the context of the new round, which promises to be an ambitious one, it must be acknowledged that this basis which looks like the lowest common denominator shared by the Member States, will of necessity suffer a decline in the course of the negotiations.
Indeed, there is no doubt but that this compromise text, whose birth was so painful, will be subject to many pressures from the American side in the negotiations, even though the homogeneity of the Union is only a façade, and the Union has no legal arsenal available to it comparable with that in the hands of the United States, one that is likely, if necessary, to deter the American side.
For the problem is not knowing whether rules are necessary in world trade.
The African continent' s share in world trade is less than 3%.
This is the reason why an assessment of the social and environmental impact of the previous rounds was essential before engaging in a new wave of all-out liberalisation.
However, for the European Union, the establishment of an analysis shared with the countries of the third world could have been the foundation for the alliance which we are seeking to build with them on the occasion of these negotiations.
Secondly, the DSB (Dispute Settlement Body), created within the WTO, has demanded that the European Union give up its own standards in fields as fundamental as health and food safety or even its policy of cooperation in the case of the bananas from ACP countries and the outermost regions.
This is why, in the Millennium Round, Europe must champion another vision of the organisation of commerce and world trade.
To do so it must assert three main principles: The first is that the objective of this round must be the reduction of inequalities in development between north and south.
In order to achieve this, the rules of the multilateral trade system must take into account the differences between countries in situations and resources.
This is why we cannot accept challenges to the Lomé Agreements and our policy of cooperation in the form in which we have constructed it in the Lomé Agreements with ACP countries, including 39 of the poorest countries in the world.
Europe must go to Seattle with a vision of globalisation which is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by a single power.
In the agreements on intellectual property, Europe must resist the patenting of living organisms, it must guarantee that derogations to the general trade regulations for medicinal products used to fight AIDS and other serious diseases indicated by the WHO are maintained.
Fundamental human rights and the Universal Declaration of 1948, the conventions of the ILO (International Labour Organisation) or conventions on the environment, are in essence superior to the standards governing trade.
On the contrary, it must be possible to take an appeal against a WTO decision to the ILO or to the competent bodies of the United Nations.
Some of these concerns were taken into account by the rapporteur at the end of the debates within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
But I believe that one of the most significant elements, on the eve of this new round, one which distinguishes it from the previous rounds, is the intrusion of society, of NGOs and international public opinion into the debate.
For their entire duration, they will remain at the centre of the debates of the European Parliament, I am sure. - (FR) The new round of negotiations of the World Trade Organisation, due to open in Seattle on 30 November, should provide an opportunity to establish better control of the liberalisation of trade.
At the risk of denting our clear conscience, I would at this point like to mention the example of the banana dispute, or the multinationals (Del Monte, Dole and Chiquita) which, with the support of the United States, are flooding the European market with bananas which are the product of slavery, produced, what is more, in conditions of the most dubious food safety and have managed to force us to our knees; a matter in which we are on the verge of unconditional surrender, abandoning hundreds of thousands of growers, not only in ACP countries, but also the farmers of our own Community in Guadeloupe and Martinique, to bankruptcy!
The same applies to rum, since we have signed a unilateral agreement with the United States on the import of colourless spirits, and that includes rum, which will inevitably lead in the short term to the economic destabilisation of the entire Caribbean!
What will happen tomorrow, unless we are particularly vigilant, in the case of sugar, which is a crucial element in the economic balance of ACP countries such as Mauritius or a European region, such as Réunion, which I know well?
The truth is, I am afraid, that whatever our fine statements, often with a touch of paternalism, we are on the verge of writing off our policy with regard to the poorest countries and to ACP countries, in particular, abandoning the farmers in our own outermost regions in the process.
The European Commission and Council should heed our clear intentions in this respect.
I call on European negotiators to respect our resolution in favour of the principle of food security and for no adverse effect for developing countries in the agricultural negotiations.
Protectionism by the European Union against the developing world is morally unacceptable and economically short-sighted.
Specific actions are needed in favour of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, using partnerships to reduce inequalities between rich and poor countries.
Increased coherence between trade, labour, environmental, animal welfare and other internationally accepted regulations and principles of 'corporate governance' through improved cooperation between the WTO, the ILO, the United Nations, the Multilateral Environment Agreements and other international institutions must be mandatory.
It is, nevertheless, obvious that there other ways of achieving this, ways that are quite different from those currently in force and to those being planned, and this places the need for a moratorium on negotiations on international trade relations on the agenda.
The Commission has acted and is continuing to act in these three case as if it wishes to ensure that there will be no outstanding disputes between the European Union and the United States when the negotiations are due to begin.
Sweeping aside this niggling detail, and many others too, the Commission feels more comfortable in proposing yet more federalism, extending majority voting to the Council, and constitutionalisation of the Treaties.
The fact is, we need a Europe which is more flexible and accords greater respect to its nations.
I gave the principles of this in a minority opinion appended to the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report, and the Union for a Europe of Nations Group developed the consequences of this by proposing twenty-one amendments, all rejected, alas, by the majority in Parliament.
The requirements in the report extend beyond what the European Council considers ought to be on the agenda for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The many amendments and the many different opinions which have been expressed in connection with the vote today illustrate as clearly as one could wish the problems which a very comprehensive agenda would entail.
That is why I voted against it! - (PT) The new Intergovernmental Conference which is due to open at the beginning or in the middle of next year' s first term obviously takes on great importance for the Community agenda for the near future.
The marginal role that, in this context, it is sought to give to smaller, less developed countries causes us, naturally, to take a very reserved position, one of concern and even outright opposition to the solutions that are being recommended.
I also oppose the demands for common military defence, especially in sections 26 and 27 which require a "binding timetable" for a common defence and security policy which is to guarantee the EU' s external borders.
Sweden is militarily non-aligned, aiming at neutrality in times of war, and may in no circumstances take part in common military defence.
Report: Pirker (A5-0059/1999) Mr President, I abstained in the voting on the Eurodac report.
The Council' s endeavour to address fundamental rights by including children aged 14 and above is therefore blind.
But even with the minor amendments that have been approved by the European Parliament, including a minimum age limit of 18 years and a limit on the number of comparisons made of fingerprints to prevent more opportunities for error, this proposal that aims to create a Fortress Europe, closed to other citizens is unacceptable.
As the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market states, in normal circumstances, fingerprints will only be allowed to be taken from criminals or from individuals suspected of having committed crimes and not from asylum seekers, refugees or citizens of third countries who are illegally present within the territory or on a Member State' s border.
Thus, the protection of the fundamental rights of the individuals concerned requires that we do not proceed with the creation of a central control system for personal data because, in principle, none of those people may be treated as a criminal or be suspected of being one.
Firstly, because the amendments to the proposal for a regulation are far too liberal.
Next, because, at the insistence of the Socialist/ecologist/Communist government of my country, to my great shame, the regulation itself scandalously omits the filing of the fingerprints of illegal immigrants monitored on the territory of the Union.
Finally, because the text entrusts the management of Eurodac to a handful of Commission officials.
In building the Europe of Brussels, Maastricht and Amsterdam, you have created an area of high insecurity where illegal immigrants, drugs, trafficking of many different kinds, and crime may circulate freely, any old how.
The steps you are proposing today not only through the Pirker report, but also through the reports on drugs or on the counterfeiting of travel documents are pathetic, given the real extent of the dangers to which you are exposing the citizens of Europe.
The only solution is to re-establish checks at the internal frontiers of the Community; to give the Member State police services adequate human, financial and material resources to fulfil their role of protecting honest citizens, and to cease giving the irresponsible parties of Brussels any sort of jurisdiction over matters of the police, justice, immigration and residence of aliens. - (NL) The Dutch delegation in the PSE would hereby declare that it is unable to agree with the Pirker report approved today, on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning the establishment of "Eurodac" for the purpose of comparing fingerprints of asylum seekers and of certain other aliens.
Mr President, Commissioner, only 43 days to go to 1 January 2000.
The millennium problem in the nuclear energy sector should primarily be tackled by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
However, the IAEA has indicated that it has no funding for specific support to solve problems in Central and Eastern European countries.
The question remains as to whether these countries are themselves putting enough money into tackling the millennium bug.
I now have three questions for the Commissioner.
Unfortunately, these reserve diesel generators are only 85 per cent reliable.
Great Britain has already taken the decision to do this.
Mr President, I support this compromise resolution on the year 2000 computer problem.
Secondly, where is the reply from the EU to the desperate call for help from 27 African states on 21 October this year?
They are also asking the industrialised countries for help in overcoming their Y2K problem.
This not only applies to Africa but to other countries in the "developing" world.
In all analyses of and discussions on this subject, the developing countries do not play a part.
Many computers have not stored the date of 29 February in the year 2000.
Neither the age of a plant nor its location, nor indeed the state-of-the-art design are any guarantee of Y2K date compliance.
I would not like to be in this building at midnight on 31 December - a mere 43 days from now.
As a sovereign, non-nuclear nation, we in Ireland have a right to self-determination in terms of our people's health and environment.
Consultation and communication between our two countries over the years regarding the British nuclear programme have not been good.
The situation in Eastern Europe is also far from reassuring.
The way we see the situation in the Member States, the nuclear candidate countries with nuclear facilities and in the newly independent states is as follows.
The Member States which have nuclear power plants have been working on this question for at least two years, and the information in our possession indicates that the necessary corrective measures have by now been practically completed, as have all works to do with emergency planning.
In this matter, the Commission has promoted exchanges of know-how and of good practice, but we did not consider it useful to intervene further with our activities in the actions of Member States.
The case is rather different for some countries of Central and Eastern Europe and some new Independent States, whose response to the problem has been less prompt.
Some of them, in fact, did not start to concern themselves with this problem until the end of 1998.
The Commission provided additional assistance to a number of nuclear power plant operators.
In addition, we offered our assistance to the nuclear regulation authorities as of the beginning of this year, and we are now supporting projects of this type in Bulgaria, Slovakia and Russia.
According to the information available to us, we think that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe have generally made good progress in correcting these systems.
We are supporting these rehabilitation projects by contributing to the activities of two international scientific and technical centres, in Moscow and Kiev, and we are prepared, if necessary, to provide additional assistance to these programmes in consideration of the fact that, as you have said throughout this debate, we are getting extremely close to the transition to the year 2000 and the main thing has been to begin to address the problem in good time.
This is my answer, and this is our contribution to solving this important problem.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, it has, in fact, been possible once again to reach an agreement between all the political groups and to present a single motion for a resolution on Timor.
This motion for a resolution is a clear signal to the international community that, in spite of the fact that news about Timor has disappeared from the major European newspapers and that it is no longer the leading item on the most important European television news broadcasts, the international community and the European Union must continue to be attentive to this problem.
Finally, Mr President, our intention is for the Commission and the Council to match the condemnations and political speeches with an appropriate expression of financial and technical support for the process of independence and the reconstruction of East Timor.
We in the European Union, along with the United Nations, all encouraged the East Timorese to exercise their right to vote in the referendum.
Unfortunately, a huge number of people lost their lives because of the irresponsible attitude of the international community.
Member States of the European Union have to support them - not just with words but also financial assistance.
Mr President, the developing situation in East Timor must continue to enjoy the complete attention of the European Union' s institutions.
In spite of the positive measures that were taken following Parliament' s resolution on September 16 last, specifically the entry of the international peace and security force under the auspices of the UN and INTERFET, the humanitarian safety situation remains serious both in East Timor itself, which it is essential to provide with resources to support reconstruction, and for approximately 250 thousand people forcibly displaced to Indonesia and, particularly, to West Timor.
Therefore, it is crucial that the European Union, the Member States and the whole international community maintain firm pressure on the Indonesian authorities so that they disarm and control the so-called "militias" with the utmost urgency and they create the necessary conditions of safety for the refugees to return to East Timor, whose territorial integrity should be respected in its entirety.
Therefore this is an appeal for all Member States, the institutions of the European Union and the whole international community to keep support for the people of East Timor on the agenda and to take the first steps towards the international recognition of the State of East Timor Lorosae and the respective establishment of diplomatic relations.
The next two years must be won.
With regard to international solidarity, it is clear that the joint assessment mission, coordinated by the World Bank and in which elements of the Commission participated, has finished its work in the area.
The data that has been made available is very useful for Parliament too.
I must point out that after the referendum on August 30 we were already expressing our desire for the European Union to become actively involved in the tasks of reconstruction.
In line with this desire, when, at first reading, we took a stand on Budget 2000, we established a specific point of a multiannual nature with EUR 30 million allocated to the reconstruction of East Timor, an amount that should be increased in view of the information provided by the joint assessment mission.
In the meantime, Indonesia is keeping its land borders closed.
The situation is intolerable and is affecting a third of East Timor' s population, which has the right to a free and informed choice as to whether they stay in Indonesia or return to East Timor.
I would also like to highlight the proposal that has been made to send a new delegation from the European Parliament to East Timor precisely to verify in loco how this process of reconstruction is taking place and being handled, and in order to have all the necessary facts to enable us to continue maintaining East Timor as an issue that deserves the unanimous attention of all European Members of Parliament.
Mr President, the situation in East Timor may have taken a turn for the better thanks to the change of power in Indonesia and thanks to the arrival of the peacekeeping force, but for the ordinary citizen in East Timor and also for the refugees still in West Timor, the situation is still very alarming indeed.
UNAMET are trying their utmost to protect the people but the militia groups are still active.
This area too is having to deal with 70,000 refugees, 500 killed and a judicial system invariably staffed by militia groups.
Mr President, the Indonesian government appears to be sensitive to international criticism.
Within the framework of the United Nations, we must all contribute towards finding an overall solution to this problem, including issues relating to human rights and the establishment of a new state.
We have responded to international appeals and have currently made commitments up to the equivalent of approximately EUR 8.5 million in food aid.
The priority that we give to aid for East Timor will be clearly expressed, and I believe that this complies with your suggestion, Mrs Maij-Weggen, by the visit which Commissioner Nielson is going to be making at the end of the month to both East and West Timor.
According to our information, the United Nations is managing the large-scale operations in East Timor efficiently.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy has not responded yet to what happened to the resolution we submitted in early October regarding the area north of Timor.
Moratorium on capital punishment Mr President, I would like to tell you briefly that I belong to a generation which was fortunate not to live through the massacre of Algerians in Paris in 1961, not to experience, on 9 November 1938, Kristallnacht or the start of Jewish persecution in various European countries and fortunate, above, all to see the end of apartheid in South Africa.
China, the self-styled democratic Republic of the Congo, the United States and Iran have the sad record of coming at the top of the list of the countries which apply the death sentence.
According to Amnesty International, there are 3,500 prisoners waiting for execution in the United States, where 68 prisoners were executed last year.
In these countries, the right of life or death over prisoners is all the more intolerable in the light of the ridiculously limited budgets allocated to crime prevention policies and social matters.
The mobilisation of international opinion, as we have seen, prevented the execution of Mumia Abu-Jamal, scheduled for 2 December.
We must widen and intensify our pressure on these countries and hit them where it hurts.
It is important that European businesses should refuse to invest in the states of the United States or anywhere else in the world where the death penalty continues to be applied.
The Member States of the European Union must refuse to extradite any person to a country where it is known that their death sentence is automatically programmed as soon as they set foot there.
Nevertheless, I would stress once again that, from this point of view, the European Union' s ambiguity is apparent to everyone, and I therefore think that we should express ourselves in a much clearer way than we have in the resolution.
What I would like to say, Mr President, is that we have done this because we are convinced that everybody has the unalienable right to the respect for life and this right cannot go unrecognised or be violated.
We have all seen the horrendous pictures of the last death sentence passed by the Florida Court and it will therefore not surprise any of you that the first person to appear in the text of the joint resolution should be the Spanish - and hence European Union - citizen, Joaquín José Martínez, whose sentence we ask to be reviewed and whose death sentence we ask to be suspended.
In this case there has been a series of coincidences which have inspired an enthusiastic solidarity movement in our country in which the Government, all the political parties and the rest of society have taken part.
I would like to say that there have been a whole series of irregularities in the trial and it appears that the defence lawyer has not fulfilled his commitments.
I therefore believe, Mr President, that as a European Parliament we have to show, in this and all other similar cases, a firm and resolute commitment to the right to life, as we have done in this joint resolution.
The resolution we are debating is really quite remarkable.
The abolition of the death penalty would be a fantastic step forward in the fight for human rights and also a big step forward for the recognition of human dignity.
Mr President, every year hundreds of human beings are executed in the world - often in the so-called civilised world - at the hands of other human beings.
In 1998 it was noted that there were at least 1,625 executions in 37 countries and almost 4,000 death sentences in another 78 countries.
According to a report released recently, since 1973 and in the United States alone, 75 prisoners condemned to death were released when it was discovered that they had been wrongly convicted.
According to Amnesty International, for every six prisoners executed since the restoration of the death penalty in the United States, one innocent person was condemned to death and later pardoned.
The answer is yes.
This is why we are sending this message to the Council and all the nations of the world.
The case of the Spanish citizen, José Joaquín Martínez, is a clear example of justice with no guarantees.
But I declare, we all declare together, that no death sentence is a just sentence.
I will also end with a biblical quote which is more positive than the one quoted by my colleague.
However, once again, this Parliament is going to speak to the rest of the world against the death penalty.
I therefore feel proud to be here this afternoon and to be able to vote, unanimously, for a condemnation of the death penalty.
The death penalty is barbarous.
As other Members have said, it is a terrifying fact that many innocent people have been executed.
He is in prison, it is true, but he sent a letter to the court saying that he had heard somebody claiming responsibility for the murder which José Joaquín Martínez is convicted of.
With this simple source of doubt, it is impossible to condemn a defendant to death.
Therefore we ask in the resolution for a new trial and that under no circumstances the death sentence be passed.
His execution was set for 2 December.
It seems to us an enormous and terrifying cruelty that anybody should consider executing ill people of this type and that people should be kept in prison for 21 years, as is the case with a Canadian who was due to be executed and, half an hour before his execution, had his appeal accepted in court.
The problem clearly, therefore, lies in the lack of political will, and we can imagine the reasons for this: pressure from some major countries, such as the People' s Republic of China, the United States and Japan, who succeeded in ensuring that this policy, upon which the Union had already decided, was literally betrayed at the last moment.
The central problem before us, then, as a Parliament, is the problem of a necessary joint European policy on security and foreign affairs.
This is why, on the basis of our European values and in the name of respect for human rights, we call on the governments of all the countries in which death sentences are pending to suspend them immediately and to repeal the death penalty.
I shall vote in favour of the resolution asking for a moratorium on capital punishment, since it is the best on offer, but I consider that not having the courage to take up a stance in favour of the immediate and unconditional abolition of capital punishment is an abdication of responsibility in the face of barbarism.
These sentences come in addition to the equally ignominious sentences of 13 Iranian Jews, not to mention here the thousands of victims of repression in the past.
And if these sentences show the worth of the regime of oppression and terror which is that of Iran, they are just as indicative of the essence and worth of trusts such as Shell, for example, which has just signed a USD 800 million contract with the Iranian Government.
The EU also has an important role to play in the reconstruction process.
All democratic forces must be supported in order to facilitate the reconstruction and create a functioning and democratic civil society.
Unfortunately the crimes are continuing, with two differences.
Mr President, Mr Sakellariou, I can immediately endorse what you have said.
All the parties theoretically declare that the Serbs, Roma and Albanians can live together but in practice the situation in Pristina is different.
The city is completely divided and is becoming more markedly so day by day.
We must do that, but the first need is to create jobs, we must create infrastructure, so that the young people who are now going around with Kalashnikovs, can finally hold tools in their hands and do something for their country.
Mr President, today' s debate has until now unfortunately been really one-sided as we have forgotten to be self-critical.
Doris Pack and others did not do so, but a large majority did.
Of course we must send out a strong signal against any expulsions.
The language of the international community must be clear here.
So it is all the more important - and I should like to stress this - that UNMIK and Bernard Kouchner make rapid progress in setting up a government.
It is most gratifying to note that all the Groups in this House are clearly in agreement on this subject.
With great sadness, I say, since all we are doing today is observing the results of our on-going hypocrisy in the case of Kosovo, not to say our blindness and even cowardice.
We are sorry to have to be reminding you of these obvious facts, but Europe has lost sight of the national principle to the extent that it is necessary to keep repeating it.
A nation goes beyond ethnic groupings, forming a pluralist body which erases the primary membership of a racial or family group, or at least relegates this to the private domain, in favour of a political structure, which for two centuries, and perhaps even for much more than two centuries, we in France have called the Republic.
Let us destroy nations, and what the Yugoslav association may have become in time, especially if Europe had opened its arms to it earlier, let us destroy nations, and we will end up with nothing but the eruption of ethnic groups everywhere, not to say, gangs, with accounts being settled and, ultimately, war in Europe.
Mr President, Hashim Thaçi, the leader of the KLA (the Kosovo Liberation Army), recently postulated: "I am the President of Kosovo.
Well now, those have definitely taken place since the arrival of the UN and KFOR in Kosovo on 12 June.
If this information is correct, what does the EU intend to do to help these displaced Kosovar Roma?
In this context, I would also like to raise another pressing question.
All the more reason why the international community should now join forces to protect the Roma who are still in Kosovo.
Alexander Nikitin Mr President, on 23 November, Alexander Nikitin will appear in court again.
It became clear a long time ago that he has the information in the Bellona report from sources that are accessible to the general public.
Mr President, the European Convention on Human Rights that also applies to Russia as a Member State of the Council of Europe, has, as it were, its headquarters here in Strasbourg.
Mr President, I rise on behalf of my group but also on behalf of my colleague Lord Bethell, who takes a particular concern and interest in this matter.
Next Tuesday he is due to appear in court in Russia.
This is, in fact, a matter of foreign policy.
By means of this resolution, the European Union was proposing to the international community that it undertake to establish a moratorium on capital punishment.
Indeed, as far as we are concerned, the abolition of capital punishment is an intrinsic part of our human rights policy, whereas for many countries this is exclusively a matter of criminal law, or so they claim, at least.
We withdrew it because the debates in this Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations were, in our opinion, going badly.
Moreover, accepting an amendment of this kind could have had a very negative impact on the work of the United Nations in the human rights field.
It was not therefore, as I have heard, in order to yield to some sort of pressure that we preferred to close the debate in this way, at least for the time being, but rather in order to maintain a position of principle.
I shall now come to the second subject, Mr President, regarding the rights of the Serbs and other minorities in Kosovo.
Thanks to programmes of assistance in democratisation and human rights, the Commission continues to provide support for measures intended to re-establish confidence and to promote dialogue between the different communities.
We were already active in this way, without much success, unfortunately, even before the conflict, and I share, from this point of view, the suggestions that some of you made that we must all meticulously take stock of the situation.
In addition, we support fully and absolutely the action undertaken by MINUK in order to set up an operational civil administration, capable of taking on the police functions which are currently handled by KFOR, and to create a peaceful multi-ethnic society, capable of taking on both the reconstruction of Kosovo and the restoration of its society.
MINUK approached the Commission with regard to the financing of the Kosovo protection force and the Member States shall take a decision, in the weeks to come, regarding the programme we suggested in response to this request.
In this context, we are asking all people of goodwill in Kosovo and outside, to also work towards these objectives in order to help us to ensure that MINUK and KFOR achieve them themselves.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30.p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, the recent release of Jean Bosco Barayagwiza by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda has scandalised the government and population in Rwanda.
It must be clearly established that all those who committed crimes as heinous as genocide or crimes against humanity, or who were accomplices to these, will be pursued tirelessly.
Would the European Union be prepared, Mr Lamy, to play a role in this regard, in order to, in future, prevent this type of blunder which is catastrophic in the opinion of the populations who are waiting for truth and justice?
It is essential for the international justice system to regain control if it wishes to ensure its own credibility, but we must also give it the resources it needs to fulfil its ambitions.
Sometimes it is good to quote these figures, because in the light of what is happening on our doorstep in Kosovo, we sometimes forget that a conflict of such dimensions is still taking place in an area of Central Africa.
I hope we succeed in sending out a clear message from within Europe that human rights cannot and should not be split up, and that we do not only attach importance to them in relation to Kosovo, but also where this Central-African region is concerned.
Yesterday we were deploring genocide and violations of human rights.
It is essential today for the European Parliament to assert clearly that, in order to ensure stability in this region, the conditions must be created for a peace which is based on justice and the prosecution of those responsible for ethnic violence.
We wait until a white person is murdered before we take renewed interest in a conflict in Burundi that has taken so many thousands of people into their graves.
The International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha must do its work efficiently, and we hope that those doing this work will take measures to bring this process to a just and speedy end.
We need to evaluate the work of the tribunal to identify the weaknesses so that we can furnish appropriate assistance to ensure high standards of justice without wasting time and resources.
The innocent victims of genocide and conflict cannot wait for ever to rebuild their lives in order to live in peace in their own villages and in their own homes.
This resolution, agreed by all political groups in this Parliament, expresses clearly our concerns, hopes and expectations.
It is now up to the government of Rwanda and those of neighbouring countries to take serious action to bring about genuine peace in the area.
Some even claim that the situation is comparable to that in Rwanda just before the genocide in 1994.
Because the Member States apparently cannot agree on how to tackle the crisis in the Great Lakes Region, we leave Burundi to African countries, some of which are involved in the crisis.
If we do not want this, let us then give our full support to the peace process in Burundi.
No national reconciliation is possible without proper court procedures, and that involves both the Rwandan national justice system and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
The Commission is going to initiate an evaluation of human rights programmes in developing countries.
This evaluation will include support for the International Criminal Tribunal and its conclusions will enable us to identify any new support according to the methods we shall assess in the light of this investigation.
The real criticism you might make, which would hit home, is that we are passive in this type of situation.
We have supported the peace process by financing the talks taking place in Arusha, with a contribution of EUR 2 million, which is far from being the largest contribution and which should, along with other external finance, be sufficient for the successful conclusion of these talks.
We intervened immediately to provide humanitarian aid, with aid of more than EUR one million over three operations, and we are prepared to continue to intervene in order to meet the most urgent needs next year.
The total ECHO contribution to Burundi reached around EUR 10 million this year.
At a meeting in New York at the start of the year, the backers of Burundi decided to contribute towards improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable sectors of the population and to target their support at the rehousing of displaced persons.
In the context of these positions, the Commission approved a redevelopment programme of around EUR 50 million, which may be implemented according to the security conditions in the country.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30.
The Sharif and Bhutto regimes have misruled their country for many years.
On meeting the EU' s special envoy, Walter Sari, on 2 November, General Musharraf rejected a timetable for the establishment of democracy.
There is therefore no reason why the EU should be prepared to follow other states, which think that the stability programme that has been announced has a good chance of success.
The new, stricter anti-corruption legislation is a step in the right direction.
International investment has been suspended until the IMF accepts Pakistan as a full partner.
The same governments supported the fundamentalist murderous regime of the Taliban in Afghanistan and represent a constant incalculable risk to peace in the region because they support and stir up terrorist activity in the border region of Kashmir against their Indian neighbours.
Despite everything, we should not allow ourselves to consider the military coup as a possible alternative to the incompetence and corruption of an elected government.
So that reaction adds weight to our awareness of much that was wrong under the previous regime, for example the lack of protection for the rights of religious minorities and the increasing abuse of the blasphemy law which was introduced after the military take-over in 1958.
Under the previous regime we also saw a growing abuse of human rights, of people such as the Sindhi.
I am also concerned at reports that the military were motivated by the feeling that the Sharif government was not doing enough to protect and maintain the Federation of Pakistan.
I find that particularly worrying when I remember its developing nuclear capability.
We believe that the conduct of the trial of the former prime minister will also be a clear sign as to the military's good intentions to return to, or rather not to return but to introduce good democratic government to Pakistan.
As regards the specific points you have raised in the resolutions relating to the Commission' s development aid programmes and projects in Pakistan, it must be stressed that these are directed almost exclusively at the poorest and most disadvantaged levels of the population.
The commitments for Community projects currently amount to some EUR 180 million in total and the Commission proposes to continue to implement these projects.
We are perfectly aware of the deplorable situation of a great many children in Pakistan, especially girls, but we feel that the most effective means of improving this situation is to contribute towards ensuring good quality, accessible, universal primary education.
Work on the new projects to be financed under next year' s budget has currently been suspended, while waiting for developments in the evaluation of the new situation over there.
In order to reply specifically to Mr Duff' s question, following the coup d' état, the Union cancelled the signing of the new cooperation agreement between the Community and Pakistan, and we suspended our political dialogue so as to send a message, loud and clear, to the new masters in Pakistan regarding our concerns about the coup d' état and its consequences.
The debate is closed.
This vote has nothing to do with any others in which I have participated during this session.
And even though I know that this vote will not radically change the tragic situation of thousands of children here or elsewhere, it does testify to the political will of this Parliament to make progress!
The aims of the Convention account for the unprecedented international reaction: measures to be implemented in international law to protect the rights of the most innocent, most vulnerable of the world's citizens.
The draft resolution which we have voted today seeks to ensure that the elements enshrined within this convention are protected in other legal bases and frameworks.
The state, in its attempt to provide a legal basis for the protection and treatment of children must bow to the pre-eminent right which parents have in protecting, raising and safeguarding their children.
Articles 5, 7, 9, 14, and others enshrine the responsibilities and rights of parents in relation to the raising of their children.
It is in families that children learn the values of 'peace, dignity, tolerance, freedom, equality and solidarity' (preamble), as well as the skills necessary to implement these values in society throughout their lives.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child recognises the responsibilities of parents in providing the proper care and attention to their children, as well as the child's right to receive this care, guidance, and love.
All of this because a new Rasputin wants to gain popularity in Russia and take power as a new President, and to this end he thinks nothing of seriously endangering democracy, the Rule of Law and the economic reforms of the Russian Federation.
The war is also a criminal one as regards the Russian people itself.
Within the European Union we annually seize some 600 tonnes of cannabis.
The legal position in Europe is extremely unsatisfactory.
I therefore believe that Marietta Giannakou' s report is especially important and the action plan is something really fundamental that can help us in this field.
Prevention has little support and the youth programmes are not designed for support in combating drugs.
We therefore need the support of the European Union programmes such as SOCRATES and LEONARDO.
In fact, our colleague' s report is an important report and must be discussed very carefully, among other reasons because the debate on the report has once again shown that drugs policy in the European Union is one of the most controversial subjects that we have ever had to discuss.
On 6 November last, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, advocated stronger European cooperation in the field of drug control.
It recognises the importance of urban and regional policy experiments, refers to harm reduction and is prepared to evaluate different pluralistic therapeutic approaches.
It is open, and the Schengen Agreement has opened the borders between our countries to such a degree that we do not have much opportunity to exercise supervision.
Naturally, we all of us want to, and what we immediately think about in this connection is treatment, which is to say efforts involving a variety of social and medical provisions.
The Tampere Summit underlined once more that the problem in Europe should be approached in a comprehensive manner.
Mr President, as the rapporteur pointed out, the European Commission affirms that neither the regulatory instruments nor the programmes for the Action Plan on the fight against drugs 1995-1999 have been sufficiently assessed.
It is therefore impossible to determine to what extent the objectives laid down have been met.
Given that we are talking about the fight against drugs, the Commission' s Communication is not included on the agenda of the Court of Auditors or even OLAF, but on Parliament' s agenda.
But how much would it cost to eliminate drug trafficking, a trade that the United Nations says accounts for 8% of world trade?
One may well wonder following this discussion.
After all, the Commission has repeatedly highlighted that the plan of action in this respect is merely a supplement.
The police in Bristol in my constituency tell me that 85% of all crime is drug-related.
Mr President, rapporteur, this drug programme primarily concerns people who are drug addicts and their families.
The urgent aim must be to minimise the damage and that must be firmly established in the drug programme.
Fourthly, city cooperation should be promoted, taken from the idea of the European Cities Drug Policy as a prime example of a project that recognises - legal and illegal - drugs as belonging to society and lends support to people dealing responsibly with these drugs.
The same report, furthermore, shows an increase in the consumption in Europe of new synthetic drugs such as ecstasy, as well as an increase in the consumption of more traditional drugs such as LSD and amphetamines.
And all of this becomes more frightening if we consider that, at the moment, drug-related crime and the scale of drug trafficking represent around 8% of world trade.
The report highlights the fact, and rightly so, that the budgetary resources are inadequate.
We expect a great deal from its work, in terms of a better understanding of the phenomenon, in terms of the existence of data and comparable information, and, above all, in terms of monitoring, identifying and proposals to ban dangerous substances placed on the market.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission communication on the Union' s action plan to combat drugs is an important and positive communication.
The European Union action plan for the period from 2000 to 2004 must therefore include, over and above what is mentioned in the report, practices and programmes directed towards breaking the habit and restricting damage to the health of drug users.
It is clear that the drug problem, not only on a European level but also on a world level, requires the special attention of politicians, institutions and the whole of civil society.
On 26 October, in this Parliament, the President of Colombia, a country which unfortunately has strong links with the drug problem, told us: "Drug trafficking has been the great creator of violence and has led to assassinations of the highest possible human cost to our country" .
And we are not talking here about an issue which only affects the Member States nor the European Union, but an issue which directly affects human beings in any country of the world.
Our first concern in this Parliament should be to point out that the responsibility is collective, that it requires collaboration, cooperation and coordination between the judicial and penal authorities and between the different continents, whether they be the European Union, Latin America, South East Asia or African countries.
The second concern is that the European Union must play a greater role in the field of reducing the demand for drugs.
To this end, the European Parliament, in this resolution, has highlighted and strengthened the role which the European Observatory on Drugs and Drug Addiction must play by giving it greater means and resources to fulfil its objective efficiently.
I would like particularly to stress the importance of the fight against traffickers who use and exploit illegal immigrants, especially on the Southern border of Europe, in Andalucia, Ceuta and Melilla, which have become a channel for drug trafficking.
A recent survey carried out in my country indicated that the second greatest social problem in the eyes of our young people was, after unemployment, the drug problem.
But we cannot solve these problems by talk alone.
And unfortunately this is still not the case.
Mr President, congratulations to my colleague on her report.
Many of the amendments to this report before us are therefore right.
At the same time, we must also initiate different types of relations between the Union as a whole and the activities of the individual states, and between the principle of subsidiarity and the need - which has also, rightly, been expressed - for the Union to equip itself with a common policy on this phenomenon which is a real concern for our present, but also for our future.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
To conclude, the committee has voted to change the legal base so that this matter comes back under the first pillar, because this proposal is primarily about detecting forged documents carried by illegal immigrants.
That is the fact that in parallel we have developed the FADO system that allows us to compare original documents and counterfeit documents pictorially.
In reality, we therefore have two systems that should be amalgamated in one system.
But we should try to be more efficient so that two systems do not run in parallel but are associated with each other so that something is achieved: so that with the Schengen information system and the EURODAC information system together we can contribute to a safer Europe.
This exchange of information is of great importance for the protection and security of people in Europe.
Europe needs a legal area in which its citizens feel at home and protected.
The rapporteur wants to amend paragraph 3 of the preamble and limit the crimes to the offence of illegal immigration.
It mocks our citizens who expect protection and security from the European Union.
Mr President, I too would like to support the substance of the German Council initiative to improve on the exchange of information on counterfeit travel documents and to strengthen the security of the European Union's borders both for Member States such as my own, the United Kingdom, which are outside of Schengen as well as those that are at the EU perimeter.
Recently my country, the United Kingdom, has been subject to an enormous rise in the inward flow of peoples and in my previous job as a Central London hospital doctor I witnessed a significant degree of illegal immigration and fraudulent abuse of our generous asylum policy.
This represents some 100,000 people per year including their dependants coming into my country.
Unfortunately, there is evidence that large numbers of asylum-seekers have been waved through Continental Europe with a suggestion that they head towards our Channel ports in the knowledge that we have a permissive policy with instant rights to housing and social security benefits.
There is evidence that organised crime has spotted a soft and lucrative target in the illegal traffic of human beings who are often prepared to spend their life savings to gain entry to wealthy western countries in the hope of making a new life for themselves.
But it does provide pretexts for the politicians who in the meantime colour every debate on security in Europe with the subject of illegal immigration.
Mr Newton Dunn has perhaps chosen a sensible approach from the viewpoint of the European Parliament in order to increase our influence.
Commissioner, you must together with us make that clear to the Council.
In this sense, it is an important instrument in the battle against illegal or unauthorised immigration and against the networks that traffic in human beings.
At the same time, the issue in question also falls within the scope of police cooperation and the fight against crime in general.
I would like to draw the Chamber' s attention, however, to the fact that, in this area, the conclusions of the Tampere European Council took a certain view of the situation by appealing for the continuation of efforts seeking to implement an active common policy on visas and on combating the counterfeiting of documents in order to guarantee better management of migratory flows.
In this context, I shall not hide from the Chamber the fact that the Commission would prefer a legal basis which is based on the first Pillar.
But, of course, the fact that we prefer a legal basis which is based upon the first Pillar does not exclude the possibility of using this instrument in the battle against cross-border crime, particularly in order to maintain police cooperation between Member States.
In any event, the Commission would like to say that, from our point of view, we agree with the rapporteur' s analysis, according to which, in the long term, this instrument that we are discussing today will have to be integrated into a much larger system which will make the exchange of documents in general possible.
I would therefore like to remind you that, at the time the FABO (Archiving and Image Exchange System) was adopted, the Commission, had already announced that it would take the necessary measures to guarantee its management.
For reasons of consistency and even to save resources, the Commission intends shortly to put forward proposals to this effect, that is, proposals that will seek the integration of the exchange of counterfeit or falsified documents, the object of the present proposal, into a broader system of technical cooperation that will implement the exchange of information on all kinds of document-related fraud.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
However, today and tomorrow I should like to be able to vote on the procedures of guarantees by the Community for the European Investment Bank, the EIB for short, because if possible, we want to decide before the Council and because we also want to make certain changes, which I shall refer to in detail.
The European Investment Bank is the largest public bank in Europe, its general owners are the Member States and it works primarily with low-interest loans.
Nevertheless, for a long time the Bank refused to allow the Court of Auditors or OLAF to inspect its books, invoking its special nature as a bank.
The particular "constipation" of the EIB in matters of public monitoring and transparency even led the ECOFIN Council on 8 August 1999 to state the following, and I quote: "In view of the important financial task assigned to the European Investment Bank by the Treaty and a series of Community regulations, it must take an exemplary attitude to fraud control and allow OLAF, where necessary, to undertake inspections.
The bases are set out in my report and I hope that they will be adopted tomorrow.
I note, Mrs Rühle, that it is very difficult to stop you.
I am the newly appointed rapporteur on the EIB, the European Central Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
I, as the new rapporteur for the Bank, requested Sir Brian Unwin, the President of the EIB, for an initial meeting to set out a framework to assess the efficiency of the Bank.
Such disregard for this new European Parliament will erode, yet again, public respect and confidence in the European Union.
In May 1999, my predecessor, Mr Blak, Vice-President of CoCobu, asked 26 specific questions about alleged fraud, mismanagement, corruption and cover-up - I mean cover-up - in the Bank's activities, including in treasury operations, over the period 1993-1998.
Therefore, if the EIB is confident that it functions well and has nothing to hide, why is Sir Brian Unwin, its president, denying access to Parliament, the Court of Auditors and OLAF?
I have seen the decision taken by the EIB concerning this directive and according to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the decision taken by the Bank it will not open its doors to OLAF.
It is about time this House told the Bank to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors.
At the same time, it was with a certain amount of pleasure that we received the news, recently, that the European Investment Bank has finally accepted the scrutiny of its management by Community institutions.
When both Parliament and public opinion were surprised at information published in the press, according to which an institution that we thought was involved entirely in structural investments had lost very considerable sums in short-term speculative operations, it became clear that there was a need to scrutinise the EIB' s investment policy thoroughly.
It would not, therefore, be reasonable, through this guarantee, to support different policies from those decided on by the European Union.
We are sure that the EIB will continue to play this role in the future.
The rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets particularly point out that the Bank' s projects must support important objectives, including the European Parliament' s decisions concerning, for example, the fight against poverty, the defence of democracy and human rights and the protection of the environment.
First point: In the ECOFIN of 8 November, a political agreement was reached on the Commission' s proposal of 23 April.
It is true that the Member States still have some reservations.
With the favourable opinion of the European Parliament we hope to approve this Council decision in the next meeting of the Council on the 29th of this month.
The issue is especially relevant, given its urgency, insofar as we do not have a lot of time to implement the new procedure, since the current system ends at the end of January and we need to reach a bilateral agreement between the Bank and the Commission.
It is true - and some of you have said so - that, with regard to relations with the Court of Auditors, there is a problem of primary legislation which will clearly have to be amended, if the European Investment Bank is receive the same treatment as the Community institutions.
I believe that we have moved forward greatly in the sense that the European Investment Bank has accepted that OLAF has all the information and means necessary to analyse the loans subsidised with Community funds, which must undoubtedly be our main concern.
It is true that we are still debating what will happen to the Bank' s activities in the cases where it uses own resources.
And when we talk of own resources we are in fact talking about two different realities: loans with own resources and guarantees from the Union or loans without guarantees from the Union.
I would like this principle of openness which has developed in relations with the Bank to move forward and that finally we may arrive at a result which is satisfactory to the Parliament and the European Investment Bank, without forgetting, as I said before, that the EIB is a financial institution which can provide information with no restriction on any kind of issue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
The European Parliament is being asked to draft a report on the matter fast, as the EIB is ready to lend EUR 180 million this year already.
In my opinion, it is now time for the Commission to respond to the views expressed in the report.
Thank you, Mr Seppänen, for your presentation and your report.
We believe that the quantity will not be altered significantly, but we do think that it would be difficult to differentiate between the damage caused by one earthquake or another in a programme of this type.
Having made these initial comments, I would like to deal with the two problems mentioned in the report.
The first problem is the risk of exceeding the type or total amount of the loans from the reserves and the loan guarantees.
We have carried out a thorough and detailed analysis, and, according to the information available, on the basis of the maximum use envisaged there is still a surplus in 1999 of Euro 33 million, of 8.7 in 2000, of 7 million -approximately- in 2001 and, although it is clear that in 2002 the situation will be completely different, there will also be surpluses in 2003.
This leads us to believe that there is little sense therefore in modifying the system of reserves at the moment, because this difficulty would only arise in the event that we use the maximum forecast.
With regard to the possibility of the 60 or 65%, we could agree with your idea of accepting 60 rather than 65%, which seems to us to be a coherent idea.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
