The lessons learned from Leonardo II can be mainstreamed through the other EU programmes, in particular the European Social Fund, but this will need a level of synergy, integration and coordination not achieved in the current programme.
I understand that the Commission and the Council are still discussing these management issues but I would like them to recognise the important role the Commission must play in ensuring innovation, transnationality, quality, efficiency and simplicity in the selection of the projects and in the management of the programme.
We have also stressed the importance of evaluation in the new Leonardo programme.
Evaluation should be a requirement for every proposal built in at the outset and used as a tool to influence and improve vocational training systems and approaches.
I have written to President Santer on this matter and I hope that the lessons have been learned.
Our joint proposals presented here today for improvements to the new Leonardo programme provide a new opportunity to realise the potential of a European vocational training programme which, along with the new Socrates and Youth for Europe programme, make a major contribution to a Europe of lifelong learning.
This will allow young people not only to play a part in society, but also to assume a position as an economic player.
The new Socrates programme and the other programmes we are discussing here are being expanded to become a genuine European citizens' programme that will link up with other vocational training, research and youth programmes to become much more efficient.
The programme is aimed at around 300 million people between school age and retirement age or, to put it rather crudely, from the cradle to the grave.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just before the summer recess, Commissioner, you presented your Youth 2000-2004 programme.
This programme must involve young people too in building the European Union by strengthening their notion of European citizenship.
Because in your proposal, and do not take this the wrong way, Commissioner, the European Voluntary Service is strikingly predominant.
We are not for or against the European Voluntary Service, that is not the issue, but we can see that other programmes such as exchange projects or initiatives in favour of young people may be squeezed as a result.
In your proposal, and we understand that, the references are almost exclusively to preparation for the world of work, entering the employment process, and social and vocational integration.
Three, to make access to and implementation of the programme more democratic and, lastly, to give young people better hopes for the future and at the same time to ensure more of a future for the project of building Europe by increasing the number of young people involved.
Mr President, with the three proposals we are debating today, just as with the 'Culture 2000' programme we looked at yesterday, the Commission is inaugurating a new overall approach in its efforts to put into practice the strategic guidelines embodied in Agenda 2000 and in its statement of November 1997 on the Europe of Knowledge.
These programmes are not isolated activities, and the two proposals we are debating aim to establish genuine Community policies in the areas of education and youth, as required by Articles 126 and 127 of the Treaty.
The sectors in question are ones for which the Member States are mainly responsible, and I will come back to this later, Mr President.
I therefore think - and this is the opinion of the Committee on Budgets - that an increase from ECU 1 400 to 2 000 million at this time may be excessive.
Altogether ECU 3 billion has been allocated to finance these three programmes over the period 2000-2004.
For that reason, the Committee on Budgets continues to give this Commission proposal its strong support, just as we did before.
Mr President, I am speaking as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and on the basis of the dual-approach procedure, the Hughes procedure, which we too applied in committee particularly in relation to the Youth for Europe programme.
I sincerely believe that the three programmes - Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci and Youth for Europe - have been a success, and we must congratulate all those who, at one stage or another, have been involved in their implementation.
The Commission plans joint actions for the three programmes with the aim of rationalising them and making them more efficient, at a time when the distinction between initial and continuing training is becoming blurred, just as it is between formal and informal training.
And I fully support this plan for joint action; I believe that it represents a positive and innovative move.
As far as Socrates is concerned, it involves strengthening the European dimension of education at all levels, promoting cooperation in the field of education, removing obstacles to such cooperation and fostering innovation in this area.
Leonardo da Vinci is aimed at improving and strengthening the social and occupational integration of young people through access to continuing training throughout their lives.
The first involves recognising the benefits of mobility and the will to develop virtual mobility to supplement it.
The second point relates to the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of work-linked training opportunities and vocational training, and their involvement in social dialogue and partnership, which is still not sufficient.
Finally, and this will lead me on to the Youth for Europe and Voluntary Service programme, I have to point out that we must very quickly ensure that recognition is given for the knowledge which the various participants in these programmes have acquired through informal education.
On behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I can say that this second generation of programmes, and particularly Socrates, represents quite a large step forward in terms of cohesiveness and management.
It is most important that young people should have the chance of international exchanges under these programmes too.
A fundamental point, however, is that although Socrates and the other youth programmes have now become an essential part of Europe's education policy, they have also become an easy excuse for Member States to avoid doing more themselves to europeanise their schools, universities and educational establishments.
The shortage of funding for Socrates and the other youth programmes stands in stark contrast to all the fine words spoken about the need for more contact between young people in Europe and the creation of a genuine European education area.
Instead of the 2 % of students currently taking part in Erasmus, we feel the figure should be nearer 10 %.
And the same should apply to young people in vocational training, less than 1 % of whom currently take part in EU exchange schemes.
This would help to europeanise education and would help young unemployed teachers to get their first break in working life.
The new Structural Funds, Community initiatives, the Socrates and Youth for Europe education programmes, the reduction in the number of programme objectives from 19 to 3 and in the number of areas of action from 23 to 6 - these are more than numerical changes, they all mean that greater effectiveness is required.
Sound basic vocational training should develop knowledge, for example of working with the new information and communication technologies.
Leonardo, which covers vocational education, and Socrates, which covers education in general, must surely have the same status.
This is the most important task that faces us in our work on Europe's education policy.
It is money well spent!
Mr President, we know that good vocational training is a factor in preventing unemployment.
What they do is to exploit the genuine added value of the European dimension in the Luxembourg process which forms part of Europe's employment policy, in progress towards a knowledge-based society that can learn from cooperation precisely because of Europe's diversity, and in opening up a Europe-wide wealth of experience.
We have to learn a different way of awakening young people's interest in building Europe.
But practical experience of exchanges shows that youth exchanges entailing vocational training cause far more problems for young people than student exchanges, perhaps because the language is much less of a problem for student exchanges than for young people undergoing vocational training.
For example, we must accept the right of applicant states to use their own languages.
I welcome these projects very much and hope the Commission will do more to ensure that the education euros really do reach more Europeans.
She is therefore a respected expert in this field.
The Leonardo II programme is very important, not least because it should be at the centre of a European Union strategy to combat unemployment, education and training.
I think that changes will have to be made here in future.
Mr President, many very important and accurate comments have been made today about the importance of the education programmes.
I would stress that it is vital that we facilitate and broaden access to the education programmes in general, particularly for young people from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and those from socially weaker groups which tend not to have access to education.
The Socrates programme, having gone through a highly successful first phase of promoting European cooperation in university education, school education and language teaching, is now to be extended to cover adult education and those who left school without qualifications.
This second phase of Socrates, the Community action programme for education, seeks to resolve two of the main obstacles encountered in the first phase: insufficient financial resources and coordination and information difficulties between Member States, Commission and citizens.
Mr President, this is the first time that these three programmes have been bunched together in this way, creating a Europe of knowledge.
These are three of the most successful programmes within the European Union but it is important for us to analyse who they have been successful for, who have been the participants.
I would like to focus on one programme in particular and one aspect of that programme: The Erasmus programme within the Socrates Programme.
The most important amendment to the Socrates report is that which emphasises the need to select students on the basis of the financial needs of applicants as well as merit.
We do not just want rich students to have access to this programme.
We want up to 10 % of EU students to participate and they can gain the prestige of being a part of this programme.
Mr President, Commissioner, some young people who came to Parliament this week asked me 'Where is the spirit of Europe?'.
A young British student expressed them to me when he said: 'We have all heard of the three 'Es' - education, education, education.
The fourth 'E', Europe, in my country sometimes seems a less obvious choice.
I would argue that the major reason for Europe's importance to young people is precisely because it has a fundamental role to play in the quality of assurance of the first three 'Es' and also for creating the opportunities of the single market.
This organises work placements and vocational training for 150 000 students each year.
If we want the single market to be truly functional and the right to work across Europe to be meaningful, a period of study or work across Europe should not just provide an opportunity to experience the way of life in another country but should be to get a tangible qualification.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs on the reports we are debating in the House today.
I believe Parliament should determine to make youth one of the priorities for Europe, because young people represent the present and the future of our Union.
In the Committee on Culture, we have tried to produce a report which takes into account young people's concerns and which responds to their requests.
In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this new programme, 'Youth', is even more open to the young people of Europe as a whole.
The programme also allows young people to absorb a range of values which will create a sense of belonging to a common social and cultural area.
Thanks to their efforts, you can give your opinion during this same sitting on the reports relating to the three programmes.
This confirms my desire to develop an integrated approach, through these three proposals, that contributes to the construction of a Europe of knowledge that is open to all citizens, and particularly young people.
As a result, we accept, in full or in part, 33 amendments for Socrates, 42 amendments for Leonardo and 36 amendments for the youth programme.
There are a few sensitive points that I would like to look at in more detail.
I also entirely share Parliament's concerns and the proposals it has made to improve the assessment of the programmes, both from the point of view of the measures taken at Community level, and as regards their effect in modernising education and training systems.
As regards the duration of the programmes, the Commission has taken account of past experience and proposed a duration of five years.
I note Parliament's support for an increase in budgetary allocations to these programmes.
I hope that the rest of the negotiation process will allow the Council to give a similar opinion in this respect.
I would like to say a few words on Erasmus and, to repeat what was said earlier, I would point out that it is not an elitist programme.
The Commission has always tried to ensure that the relevant authorities in the Member States give grants to the less privileged students and the results of the survey currently being carried out on the economic and social situation in this respect will be forwarded to Parliament next February.
However, I cannot accept certain amendments that could limit the development of joint actions between the programmes and with other Community actions.
I must stress the importance of these joint actions: these new provisions allow us to combine the resources of the three programmes and of other actions that contribute to the construction of a Europe of knowledge.
In the case of Leonardo, we welcome the fact that an explicit reference is made to NGOs to facilitate their access to the programmes, but for comitology reasons they cannot actually be included in the committee.
Moreover, we accept the proposal to strengthen the general principle of non-discrimination in terms of access to the programmes, but without refocusing access on specific target groups.
Financial control also authorised the renewal, for the third year, of the projects selected in 1995.
As regards the more general audit of the administration of the programme, the financial control report has still not been finalised.
As a follow-up to Parliament's reports on the three programmes, we are putting forward amended proposals based on the amendments tabled by Parliament.
They can therefore be taken into consideration in the common positions that the Council will adopt during the Youth Council on 26 November, and during the Education Council on 4 December.
In conclusion, I must point out that, in my opinion, we are well on the way to enabling Parliament to proceed to its second reading before the end of the parliamentary term.
This is important as it will allow you to continue to provide, to the very end, the continuous political support that Parliament has given to these programmes, which directly affect citizens and provide them with specific opportunities to participate in the Europe of knowledge that we have begun to build together.
It will also allow us to prepare the implementation of the programmes during 1999 under optimum conditions, so that they will be ready for launching on 1 January 2000.
We were very pleased to hear the point she made about the audit of Leonardo but I would make a request to her that she come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment to discuss with us the findings of that audit on Leonardo I.
We now know that the majority of young people, 80 %, obtain qualifications for only 11 types of work, which drastically reduces their chances of finding a first job.
As regards the Leonardo audit and the question of my coming to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, this is a proposal that I fully agree with and I will be coming to the committee to discuss this problem as soon as possible.
But we can, of course, focus our efforts more on these problems and I am quite open to any suggestions that might be made in this respect.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the initiative on European pathways in work-linked training ties in very well with this morning's speeches on educational programmes.
On the subject of the common position, we, the European Parliament, mainly stress the value of the pathway and not just the final certificate, the Europass.
So we appreciate the fact that, in the common position, the Council did not make significant changes to the text which emerged from the first reading and actually accepted that this work-linked training pathways initiative applies not just to countries which provide for training experiences abroad, but to the whole of the territory of the Union, to all the countries which voluntarily agree to adopt this initiative.
Because we appreciate these points in the common position we have lessened the thrust of our amendments, because we really want to get this text approved quickly.
The Council has partially taken on board the idea of preparation and information measures which young people taking part in this experience need.
The Commission's text, as confirmed by the European Parliament at first reading, set out certain objectives: defining the content and common principles of the European pathway and establishing the final document, the Europass.
That is how the amendments we approved in committee should be understood, particularly Amendments Nos 1 to 6 and 9.
Mr President, I welcome the report by Mr Castagnetti and the response by the Council on this very important area of apprenticeship training and a European path for apprenticeship.
I hope that Members will listen because it is a very important area.
The Council must grasp the nettle and if it is serious about education and training and serious about youth's European pathway, it must put more resources into all the education and training programmes and to do that very consciously as part of the campaign to meet full employment projects across the European Union.
We in this Parliament want to ensure the quality of these experiences and the quality of the validation.
To support and encourage such opportunities requires considerable preparation by all the partners involved and the proposals that the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment have resubmitted provide the key elements for such preparation.
Accidents often occur when young people are unfamiliar with their working environment and to move and work in another European country may create more dangers.
In Sweden there are virtually no apprenticeship schemes, but at the beginning of the 1990s work-linked training was introduced in secondary schools, with 15 % of teaching being carried out in the workplace and the remainder in the classroom.
Parliament proposes 21 amendments, and the Commission accepts 19 of them.
These amendments improve and clarify the common position adopted by the Council and, at times, even strengthen it.
However, we cannot accept the amendments of a budgetary nature.
In the Commission's proposal for the second stage of the Leonardo da Vinci programme, which is also on today's agenda, we have agreed to provide Community support for transnational placements and exchanges that are European pathways in work-linked training, including apprenticeship.
In conclusion, we can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 5 and 7 to 20.
On this basis, I plan to present, in the very near future, an amended proposal so that the final decision can be taken at the Social Affairs Council on 2 December, and so that in 1999 we might begin the preparatory work to implement this decision on 1 January 2000.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few moments.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, thank you for the correction.
It is true that, indeed, it was not you who asked for a separate vote on this report, but the Union for Europe Group.
I said most of them.
Mr President, I am sure that the rapporteur will speak for himself but this group feels that it is important to mention the free movement of workers, but not necessarily in the main text.
We have had eight months to debate this report.
Mr President, as has already been stated, the European People's Party supports the amendments concerning freedom of movement for workers.
However, the House already has before it the proposal for the revision of Regulation No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers, and in legal terms it does seem more logical for such amendments to be included in that proposal.
Mr von Wogau, this can be done in various ways, but the rapporteur preferred to submit an oral amendment, as was his right, and I am obliged to put it to the vote.
I will read out the text of the oral amendment in French: 'Calls on the Commission to draw up as soon as possible a draft regulation effectively securing free movement of workers in the Member States of the European Union'.
Mr President, I am sure the rapporteur will accept this oral amendment, since the Socialist Group and our group have made the possibility of putting forward oral amendments into such a sensitive issue.
I would like to ask the rapporteur, and Parliament too, of course, whether they agree that this oral amendment should be put to the vote.
We have already said enough about the free movement of workers as a political statement.
Mr President, I would just like to say that the rapporteur, Mr Skinner, is being very unsporting.
Everyone has a right to their own opinion and judgement, and of course others are entitled to agree or disagree. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, I should like to comment as follows on the UPE Group's Amendment No 1 to this paragraph.
However, we are strongly opposed to the political overtones and undertones which are expressed in the report, for example when it says that the stay in another European country shall form an integral part of training in the country of provenance, or where it relates to 'EUROPASS Training'.
Roth-Behrendt report (A4-0326/98) Mr President, during the vote on the Roth-Behrendt report what I actually wanted to do was to protest about the procedure.
Indeed, I am not opposed to the proposal for a directive, which aims to eliminate the derogation for agricultural products and game in Article 2 of the Council Directive of 25 July 1985 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning liability for defective products.
Moreover, I welcome the fact that Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7 were rejected by roll-call vote.
Consumer protection has been the subject of several texts we have studied in recent months, notably the Kuhn and Roth-Behrendt reports.
We have been presented with the amendments proposed as if they follow on directly from this approach.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of Mrs Roth-Behrendt's report on product liability.
The original directive on product liability from 1985 contained a derogation for agricultural products.
The report also contains some quite controversial amendments aimed at extending consumer protection further than the Commission's original proposal.
The principle must always be that the rules - whether national or European - which protect consumers best must be applied.
The House today gave its opinion on the amendment of the 1985 directive on liability for defective products.
Parliament is wise to have rejected the six most extravagant amendments proposed by the rapporteur, who prided herself in having reached an acceptable compromise.
Secondly, Commissioner Monti yesterday promised to forward to Parliament, in January 2000, his Green Paper on the application of the directive and, in particular, its application in the agricultural sector.
Some of the amendments are designed to change the general structure of Directive 85/374/EEC and are in no way connected with the Commission's proposal for a directive.
In fact, it is the Commission that has the power of initiative in terms of legislation.
We therefore vote against Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7 in the report.
Amendment No 3 aims to abolish the obligation of the injured party to provide proof of the defect or the causal relationship between defect and damage under certain circumstances, and the vague wording of the amendment makes it difficult to determine what they are.
Under no circumstances can we allow the European Parliament to try to take the place of the Member States by attempting to seize their legislative decision-making powers.
Mouskouri report (A4-0370/98) This report deals with the restructuring of the European Union's cultural activities and in particular the creation of a single financing instrument.
It is regrettable that this problem is not tackled, particularly in this report on the 'Culture 2000' programme.
The Commission placed too much importance on the large, established networks, which would in any case have no difficulty in responding to an invitation to tender, nor would they have any difficulty in finding the necessary partners, even in six other Member States!
To build an integrated Europe, we must exploit and promote a European cultural area, which will only fully meet the objectives of European cohesion if all Europeans feel that they are fully involved in it.
The great advantage of the 'Culture 2000' framework programme, as amended by the rapporteur, lies in the fact that it accepts this point of view and as a result envisages a new approach to cultural activity.
Another important advantage of this amended framework programme is that aims to ensure that the budgets allocated are used with optimum efficiency by resisting the tendency to spread funding too thinly and recommending a sectoral approach which encourages synergies between the various artistic fields and new forms of expression, and between these and other Community programmes.
There can be no doubting the significance of its role in the new and expanding area of cultural and rural tourism.
I am reminded of the words of Gandhi: 'We did not inherit this world from our forefathers - rather, we have borrowed it from our children'.
In Ireland we have set a good example through the employment of Arts Officers and I believe their role should be strengthened if we are to succeed in bringing the richness of our cultural resource to all the people.
In fact, Culture 2000 is a very real step forward which could strengthen the role of culture in the construction of Europe and provide it with an efficient and coherent means of intervention.
Nevertheless, as implementation of this ambitious and promising project would require significant funding, the ARE Group supports the rapporteur's proposal to increase the finance to ECU 250 million.
The report stresses that the most important aim of this cooperation is to ensure that the cultural dimension assumes centre stage and acts as a driving force for European integration, and that culture is a means of integrating peoples and societies.
It is also advocated that the Leonardo da Vinci programme should be seen in connection with a European employment strategy.
Susan Waddington's report includes several proposals which will improve vocational training and its impact on employment.
It is therefore clear that priority must be given in this Community programme to those who are threatened by exclusion.
I believe that Parliament should postpone consideration of this report until the results of the internal investigation of the first phase of the 'Leonardo da Vinci' programme are clear and have been evaluated.
I agree with the proposal to widen the scope of the Socrates programme to include adults who have left the education system without qualifications.
I agree with the rapporteur that, despite obstacles such as insufficient financial resources and disjointed structure and functioning, the first phase of the Community action programme in the field of education, Socrates, has been a success that has played a major role in increasing a common sense of belonging within the Union.
In a world where it is becoming increasingly difficult to separate education from training and initial training from continuing training, the integrated approach of all the programmes in the field of education, vocational training and youth is most certainly the main innovation and merit of the Socrates II programme.
Economic and monetary union alone cannot ensure the success of such an ambitious undertaking.
The decision taken on the basis of this present report will enable us to start preparing Turkey for participation in the programme, and I feel sure that the European Parliament will now back this report.
This second phase of the Socrates programme, like the other programmes in the field of youth and vocational training, is in line with an overall trend that places the emphasis on lifelong education and training for all.
If we want this programme to be accessible to a maximum number of young people and adults wishing to undergo initial or continuing training, it is a minimal figure, given that the programme will be accessible to the citizens of a total of 29 countries.
It is acceptable also because it provides for the possibility of joint action with other programmes in the field of youth and training, because it takes new information technologies into account as an educational tool and as new knowledge.
A great deal is at stake: not just the model of European society that we wish to safeguard but also, and in particular, the future of the young and the not so young, and the possibility of offering them a job and a place in this citizens' Europe that we aspire to.
De Coene report (A4-0389/98) In Denmark there is a good and long tradition of performing voluntary work in all age groups, and not just among young people, even if the level of activity is considerably higher in that section of the population.
In addition, I also believe that the EVS, which I support wholeheartedly and which is very much a credit to the Commissioner and her services, can be improved upon, for example by adopting Philippe De Coene's idea of providing a more precise definition of what the host organisations (non-profit-making organisations) and host projects (activities which cannot replace jobs) should involve.
In view of the fact that, despite having signed the European Convention on Human Rights 50 years ago, Turkey is still not complying with the principles it enshrines, I cannot support the proposal to include that country in the programme of actions outlined in the report.
Waddington (A4-0373/98), Pack (A4-0371/98) and De Coene (A4-0389/98) reports The Treaty of Amsterdam and indeed Agenda 2000 firmly place the whole of cultural policy, research, innovation, education and training policy, in short, knowledge policy, at the centre of the future evolution of the Union.
Presenting its three proposals for decisions on education, training and youth, the Commission sets out guidelines for Community action designed to contribute to the construction of a European area of culture and education.
The Danish Social Democrats in Parliament have today voted in favour of extending and improving the three programmes based on the guidelines in Agenda 2000.
To allow our young people to come to know the diversity of our respective heritages against a background of fundamental unity, to allow them to immerse themselves in a common culture, not only out of love for the past but in order to equip them spiritually and intellectually to face today's great challenges together, would be a noble aim to promote.
The proposal for a Council Regulation presented to us today aims to create a mechanism whereby the Commission can intervene to require the Member States to remove certain internal obstacles to trade.
The Commission proposal shows the outrageously undemocratic way in which the European institutions often behave in order to promote supranationality.
These decisions were to serve as a basis for court judgments, at both national and Community level, imposing fines or penalty payments on the Member States.
The problem is exacerbated by the total absence of a legal basis, so that the Commission has been obliged to resort to the ever-useful Article 235, which we have condemned a hundred times because it allows the Community to grant itself powers which the Treaties deny it.
For all of these reasons the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations believes it is very much justified in voting against the draft regulation.
However, this case also leads us to consider the wider issue of the principle that the Member States have primary responsibility for internal public order.
In the case relating to the farmers' demonstrations of 1993-1995, we now have the Court of Justice's judgment of 9 December 1997, which takes the same line and bears out all the Commission's claims.
It is therefore not for the Community institutions to act in place of the Member States and to prescribe for them the measures which they must adopt and effectively apply in order to safeguard the free movement of goods on their territories.
What the Council wishes to adopt today in the form of this draft regulation, and what some wish to have adopted in the Amsterdam Treaty, is the most appalling crime that can be committed against a people: preventing it from defending itself when attacked.
The Commission's original proposal was completely unacceptable, since it gave the Commission too great a power to intervene in technical disputes, and also because the proposal could have undermined some basic rights such as the right to strike.
The Commission is no longer given the power to require a Member State to intervene in national strikes.
The Commission should not be entitled to act in cases that involve distinctions between national and EU rights.
The issue of the free movement of workers should be the subject of its own report.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports the Skinner report on the proposal for a Council regulation (EC) creating a mechanism whereby the Commission can intervene in order to remove certain obstacles to trade (COM(97)0619).
For example, the proposal imposes far-reaching obligations on the respective countries to remove obstacles to trade, which makes it impossible for countries to remain neutral in labour market conflicts.
But on that point, it is not by chance that some amendments by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which attempt to introduce some kind of safety valve in relation to the right to hold meetings and concern for legitimacy, from a legal point of view and exclusively in the context of national labour legislation, have not been included in the report.
For our part, we call upon working people in Europe to continue their struggle to overthrow such orders and fight to safeguard and extend their rights.
I am happy to vote for this Report by my Labour Party colleague Peter Skinner.
There is a difficult balance to reach between the competing demands of union rights to protest peacefully in their own country on the one hand, and the need to allow trade to continue in the internal market all our governments have long been committed to.
Fourthly, the proposal imposes far-reaching obligations on the respective countries to remove obstacles to trade, which makes it impossible for countries to remain neutral in labour market conflicts.
Chanterie report (A4-0378/98) Mr President, I am speaking in this explanation of vote because I wish my vote on Mr Chanterie's report to be recorded in the Minutes.
I welcome the adoption of this text and I believe that, pending the implementation by the European Union of the complete harmonisation measures which we recommended, Parliament was right to call by such a large majority for Article 6(1) of the existing directive to be modified 'in such a way as to create an unmistakable obligation on the part of Member States actually torecognise registrations carried out, or authorisations granted, by other Member States' in the field of homeopathic medicine.
I am extremely pleased with this vote on the Chanterie report, which is very important for the future of homeopathic medicine.
We cannot help but notice that, six years after the adoption of the two 1992 Directives adding additional provisions to the 1965, 1975 and 1981 Directives relating to homeopathic medicinal products, there is still distortion of competition and an imbalance in the market in this sector.
Furthermore, four Member States have been brought before the Court of Justice by the Commission on the grounds of failure to transpose the two directives or to transpose them in full into national law.
It is particularly important to respond quickly to this situation as the manufacturers of homeopathic medicines are generally small and medium-sized enterprises that suffer from the continuing obligation to register their products separately in each of the Member States.
For this reason I support the rapporteur's proposal to modify Community legislation in such a way as to create an obligation on the part of Member States actually to recognise - under specific conditions yet to be determined - registrations carried out, or authorisations granted, by other Member States.
In the meantime, there is no reason why Member States should be compelled to recognise products which have been authorized in another country.
Paragraph 20 of the resolution makes the point that environmental policy is not sufficiently integrated into policy on SMEs.
The extent of the work carried out in recent years by the various European Union institutions to promote greater development of small and medium-sized enterprises is to be welcomed with good reason.
The report contains many fine proposals.
Quality certificates already exist in the different countries, to which small businesses also have access.
