Mr President, this is not really related to the Minutes, but today I must once again draw your attention to a very unpleasant state of affairs in Brussels.
I believe that all of us who work in the institutions have a right to live and work in safe surroundings! (Applause) Mrs Schierhuber, I must admit that problems in this area of security are serious and have often occupied the Bureau's attention.
Mr Wijsenbeek, you are enough of an old hand in this House, and for years we have become used to hearing comments about that sort of thing from you, and of course from other Members who have the same view.
During the working lunch, the situation in the western Balkans, in particular in Kosovo and Albania, was also discussed.
This group of experts, known as the COLD Group, was set up by the London European Conference in March of this year and held its first meeting on 10 June in Brussels.
The group of experts will be meeting again under the Austrian Presidency.
In the discussion on preventing and combating the sexual exploitation of children, the Conference participants agreed that protecting children, who are both the weakest members of society and the source of our hopes for the future, needs to be a particular priority of the international community, because, as well as being exploited economically and persecuted in times of war, children are the victims of a particularly detestable form of violence, that of sexual abuse.
The Conference participants agreed, for this reason, that effective measures to counter it also require productive international cooperation in the various fora.
Fighting paedophilia, and related evils such as sex tourism and child prostitution, on the one hand, and taking action to prevent child abuse within the family and the production and distribution of child pornography, above all on the Internet, on the other hand, therefore present a very particular challenge, not only to the Member States of the European Union, but, we believe, to all states.
The presidency referred to the European Union's intensive work in this area in recent weeks and months, giving an overview of the various activities being undertaken in that field and reporting on the progress of discussions in the General Affairs Council.
From the EU's activities, the presidency singled out, in particular, the joint action to combat trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, which the Council adopted in February 1997.
This joint action contains proposals for improving judicial cooperation in the fight against trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children.
A number of the participating states reported on their experience of working in this field to the Conference and, at the end of the discussion, the participants agreed to invite the European Conference group of experts on drugs and organised crime to examine in detail, which of the EU's legal instruments the European Conference partner countries might be able to adopt.
It was particularly interesting yesterday to hear what the future Member States are doing or intend to do in these areas and how we can further strengthen cooperation.
I think that once the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified we will have a number of new instruments to make transnational cooperation more effective, including with the new Member States.
I am thinking here of the activities which the Amsterdam Treaty has transferred from the third pillar of the Maastricht Treaty to the first.
I am not sure whether I am supposed to say something about Malta now.
What this means in this particular case is that the Commission must now examine what effect the two-year gap in preparations for membership has had on Malta's current political and economic situation.
The minister told me that that was also certainly the intention of his government, and that as the integration process progresses it will also become easier to convince more and more people that this major political step that Malta is taking is both useful and necessary.
This is all I can tell you for the moment about Malta's application to join the European Union.
I also endorse the words of the Commissioner, who said that it is important to address those issues which are of particular interest to people, which give them cause for concern -whether this is justified or not - and to which they demand a response at European level.
The elections in Latvia - as well as the referendum on integrating the Russian-speaking population - and the elections in Slovakia have shown that it was right to accept these countries as applicants.
But if Turkey is not capable of solving the problem itself by peaceful means, then it has neither the legitimacy nor the right to take action and organise activities in another country.
I should like to ask the presidency whether this was discussed; what the presidency's views are on this issue; and whether, perhaps jointly with the Americans, a clear statement could be made to Turkey about its relations with Syria.
My final question for the presidency, however, is whether an initiative was put forward at the meeting of foreign ministers in Salzburg to extend this project to embrace other countries, as well as those in the European Conference.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the topic of Malta came as rather a surprise, not only to you, Commissioner van den Broek, but also to you, Madam President-in-Office, because I had actually expected you to comment briefly on this in your statement.
The Council now tells us that it is waiting for a Commission communication, so as to first ascertain its assessment of the situation.
The procedure is rather bewildering, because on other enlargement issues, the Council has always taken the initiative.
Malta was then, as it were, catapulted into the ranks of those countries which are experiencing severe difficulties in preparing for accession to the European Union.
Besides, the Commission must certainly also have been aware of these signals from Malta, through the regular reports of its delegation.
For Malta belongs in this forum, if only because of its constructive role in the Barcelona process.
Mr President, I welcome the report we have heard in the Conference; the sensitive way in which it has dealt with dossiers such as crime, sexual exploitation and illegal immigration will prove very helpful when eventually we have to move into the serious negotiations and the application of the new powers of the Amsterdam Treaty.
I would like to use the opportunity of this debate to slightly broaden the focus, because also this week we had the important news that on 10 November next we will have the accession Conference, which is an integral part of the general Conference reported today, and marks an important psychological and political threshold.
My own Group, the ELDR, strongly believes in a wider and deeper political Union.
Secondly, politically, we strongly welcome the green light which was given this week to Cyprus as part of that process.
But this, too, must add a new urgency for the Council and the Commission in respect of an EU-led political initiative to resolve the Cyprus problem under the aegis of the United Nations lest, again, we should institutionalise inside the Union an intractable and difficult problem on that divided island.
In this regard, I wish to say to the Council that my Group deplores the continued failure by the Council to agree a legal base for a financial protocol with Turkey.
We really need to get our act together at Council level there and indicate a capacity for a maturing EU relationship with all the states in that region.
Both these issues are interlinked to a small extent, particularly in the context of economic criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty which prospective participants in the European Union must comply with in the single currency system.
The revival of the Maltese application to join the European Union will ensure that it is dealt with in the context of the next round of enlargement negotiations, in accordance with commitments given by EU Heads of Government at Corfu.
There will be access to a frontier-free trading bloc encompassing over 20 European countries, assuming that the accession negotiations with the countries of Eastern and Central Europe prove successful.
The European Union with its internal market and free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is a positive economic prospect for a country which is seeking to find more markets for its domestic manufactured goods.
Signs of Malta's close ties with the EU are clearly evident on the island.
As a result, 66 % of the visible Maltese import and export business is done with EU states.
Malta's other important cash income activity is tourism, which also depends on EU markets for its survival.
The accession negotiations still have to overcome other difficult issues such as state support to industry and levies on imports, but I believe they can be overcome.
Finally, I hope, Mr van den Broek, that your Directorate-General will at last take a step in the right direction, and amalgamate the PHARE and Interreg funds.
Mr President, Madam President of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to speak about Malta, because today is a very important day for Europe and, I believe, for Malta itself.
I am delighted that Parliament agreed to the request made by my group, the Group of the European Radical Alliance, to have the relaunching of Malta's application to join the European Union put on the agenda for this part-session, in the presence of the Council and the Commission.
As chairman of the delegation to the EU-Malta Joint Parliamentary Committee, I have been a privileged and attentive observer of Maltese political life for two years.
In fact, agreements were reached in 1995 that stated that negotiations with Malta and Cyprus would begin six months after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
I truly hope that a decision in this direction will be taken by the Vienna European Council in December.
I would point out that, in accordance with Article 2 of the Protocol on the Institutions in the Treaty of Amsterdam, the process of institutional reform is automatically initiated when the Union is faced with the prospect of having 20 members, which would be the case here.
Mr President, when examining Malta's application for membership, which the Commissioner has confirmed has been resurrected, the Union must, I believe, take into account the following points in particular: firstly, consideration should be given to whether, from the point of view of its infrastructure, Malta is in any kind of a position to run a Council presidency.
While other Member States are obliged to have a minimum rate of 15 %, a derogation clause on this point would put this country, when it accedes, at an unacceptable competitive advantage.
The fact that this state has again failed to participate should give EU strategists cause to rethink their policy on this matter.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the Presidency and the Commission for the reports they have presented to us here today.
As Parliament's rapporteur on Malta's accession, I am delighted that Malta was there yesterday at the European Conference and that such a welcome was given to its renewed application for membership of the European Union.
My Group has therefore taken the initiative of calling on the Commission to present an updated opinion on Malta's renewed application, and, as Commissioner Van Den Broek has said, to see if and how they can catch up on the past two years while the application was frozen.
My Group will also, by way of amendment, be defending Parliament's absolute right to express our opinion on the Commission's updated opinion on Malta's renewed application.
We consider that Malta has a natural vocation, both in terms of its democratic institutions and respect for human rights, to form an integral part of the European Union.
I was interested to hear what Commissioner Van Den Broek said about the VAT situation being much clearer here, but, as the Commissioner is aware, there were other problems associated with some small industries and so on.
Finally, when we receive the Commission's updated report, I hope we will be able to quickly resolve any outstanding problems, so that the Maltese people can themselves decide once and for all on their future place in the European Union.
The determination and speed with which Prime Minister Adami renewed Malta's application for EU membership, as one of the new government's first acts, should not only reassure us as to the possibility of including Malta in the first round of negotiations on enlargement, but should also give us great satisfaction.
Indeed, Malta complies with the criteria for accession to the Union to a much greater extent than other applicant countries, and we can also be sure that a rapid recovery and return to the Maastricht criteria - already achieved in the recent past - will reward this country's legitimate aspirations to join the monetary union.
Once it is fully integrated in the European Union, in my opinion Malta will constitute an important outpost in the Mediterranean basin, likely to form a natural bridge between the cultures and economies of third countries and of the European Union.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there has obviously been a communication problem between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, since the Commissioner only realised what was happening at the last minute thanks to the prompt on the screen.
Everyone in Parliament is delighted that Malta has decided to reapply, and I think that politically speaking it is important for the consolidation of the Barcelona process that the Mediterranean presence in the European Union should be a little larger.
Mr President, I was delighted to hear the report from the Council on the activities in the European Conference.
Mr Swoboda has already mentioned certain countries which he feels should participate in the conference.
On Malta, like everybody else I welcome the decision by the Maltese Government to apply for European Union membership.
EU membership still remains a political football, which is not the best way to prepare for full membership of the European Union.
What we have to do now is look again at the situation in Malta and judge it on the same basis as any other country.
Malta has to be judged the same as any other country.
Nevertheless, I cannot refrain from expressing a certain amount of disappointment - which I hope you will be able to dispel in your reply - regarding your silence on the matter of Malta's accession to the European Union.
Some slippage has occurred over the past two years, it is true, under the Labour Government, as compared with two years ago when Malta met the Maastricht criteria in full, and now it needs to catch up again.
I do not believe that a credible Mediterranean policy can be pursued without Malta being a member of the European Union.
The benefits would be considerable, especially as the Mediterranean will be a major policy area over the next few years.
You know, of course, that Guido De Marco emerged as the winner in the elections on 10 September, and obviously we took advantage of the first Council meeting after that to discuss the subject.
Unfortunately, perhaps because it had not been prepared in sufficient detail, many countries provisionally rejected this idea in Salzburg, saying that it was premature.
We will continue our efforts, to the end of our presidency at the very least.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Situation in Kosovo The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Kosovo.
So do the statements made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in the report he presented to the Security Council the day before yesterday, in which he records that the Serbian security forces are waging a campaign of terror and violence against the civilian population in Kosovo.
There is no doubt - and this needs to be repeated here - that the main responsibility for there being such large numbers of refugees and displaced people lies with the Government of Serbia and Yugoslavia, that is to say with Milosevic himself.
The Union is particularly active in the humanitarian field.
In the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, EU foreign ministers agreed to appoint the Austrian Ambassador in Belgrade, Wolfgang Petritsch, as special EU envoy to Kosovo.
Two days ago, the Council also adopted the corresponding formal decisions.
The main tasks of the new special envoy will be to coordinate the EU's humanitarian activities with those of the international humanitarian organisations and, at the same time, to act as a point of contact for the Belgrade government and as an intermediary between it and Kosovo's political leaders.
Revisiting an initiative of foreign ministers Mr Kinkel and Mr Védrine, the presidency has also set up working groups in Belgrade and Geneva, composed of interested EU states, the USA, Russia, UNHCR, the ICRC, and the ECMM and KDOM observer missions.
At its meeting two days ago, the Council condemned these atrocities and their perpetrators in the strongest possible terms, and called on the Belgrade authorities to investigate these abominable crimes without delay and punish those responsible.
The resulting invitation from Belgrade University to a forensic team from Helsinki University on 2 October, represents the first modest fruits of our efforts.
Finally, from the Union's point of view, I should also like to recall the decisions the EU made on sanctions.
More far-reaching measures can only be taken with the support of a qualified majority of EU States.
In the same way, it is agreed that, wherever possible, Montenegro should not suffer as a result of the sanctions applied.
Nevertheless, at the most recent Council meeting, in Luxembourg, it was decided to examine the gaps in the current sanction regime and make proposals to close them.
In the Council's discussions and many other events over the last few days, however, another more fundamental development has become apparent.
A certain shift of opinion on the crisis in Kosovo can be observed within the international community.
Resolution 1199, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 23 September, was the first outward sign of this.
A tough response towards President Milosevic, of course.
But what use are all these tough statements?
Those who are the worst affected after the refugees themselves are other countries in the region or in western Europe.
I have nothing more to add to what the presidency has already expressed in very clear terms.
Mr President, for nine years I have sat in this Chamber and heard lots of pleas for a common foreign and security policy.
They were not talking about an effective policy and were not concerned about the effectiveness of its outcome.
Month after month we have heard Members of this European Parliament demanding ever tougher action in Kosovo, and yet we discover in the General Affairs Council that the countries these Members represent are the countries which are not prepared to take action on Kosovo.
Resolution 1199 is enough to justify military action.
Thank you very much, Mr Titley; I hope we will adopt a resolution along those lines today.
Just as there has been a great deal of talk in this House and at the United Nations, but we have not actually done anything.
People in Europe see refugees shivering in the cold and expect the international community to do something.
I believe we have to make very clear statements and, in particular, specific requests to the Council.
The key question is whether Milosevic really believes that the international community is prepared to implement the measures it announces with monotonous regularity every two or three weeks.
I believe that the European Community must take some simple steps.
For instance, the Council should urge the United Nations to adopt a resolution to implement Resolution 1199, military action and humanitarian aid.
In this connection, I believe that the European Union should conduct an honest debate amongst its Member States to inform public opinion as to which governments are fully prepared to implement the United Nations resolutions and which are not.
Finally, I earnestly hope that this Parliament will not become a laughing-stock and fail to agree on a resolution on Kosovo, as happened a few weeks ago, in September.
Obviously, we are in favour of air strikes in Kosovo or on the Serbs.
We mentioned Karadzic.
I tell you, it is a drastic solution and a drastic situation, but it will not be solved by a Parliament which is so bigoted, that faced with a drastic situation it always responds in the same way and is never in a position to implement what we have the potential to do.
For six months, our only policy has been to bury our heads in the sand.
Today, three years after this agreement was implemented, no-one can claim that it has been a success.
Less than 20 % of the displaced people have returned to their homes.
He is currently implementing a policy of partition in Kosovo.
Rather than 'Exocet' or American 'Tomahawk' missiles, there is a much better missile that can work without leading to any bloodshed at all: it is called an 'arrest warrant', with Milosevic being taken directly from Belgrade to The Hague to appear before the International War Crimes Tribunal.
Mr President, unfortunately in Kosovo we are witnessing the umpteenth Balkan tragedy, but as always we utter the same predictable and futile words.
The big shots in this Parliament, as well as in the other European institutions, have opted to slow down - or rather to halt - the process of Europe's political unification, so much so that Europe, bereft of a common foreign policy, now counts for nothing whatsoever.
If we really wished to do our duty, we would all of us together, today, demand that the mandate given to the EU representative in Yugoslavia should be entirely free from constraints and conditions, and that at the same time the Member States' Foreign Ministers should refrain from cultivating bilateral relations with this or that rival faction.
The report by Secretary-General Kofi Annan confirms that Belgrade is thumbing its nose at the UN demands, for which the report harshly criticises it.
I say that I welcome possible military action by NATO because I realise that a political solution, however desirable it may be, is becoming increasingly unlikely.
The Security Council must decide in the next few days on whether to take military action.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, what we are seeing in Kosovo is a humiliating display of powerlessness on the part of both the European Union and the international community, embodied by the international Contact Group and the UN.
The Amsterdam Treaty, not yet ratified by all the EU Member States, will, in theory, provide a means for us to undertake peace-enforcing, peace-keeping and humanitarian action in the form of Petersberg missions; the EU will have the option of giving the Western European Union, which would itself have to call on contingents of NATO troops, a mandate to undertake action of this kind.
The dilemma facing the European Union is that it does not have effective security instruments at its disposal, does not have the military backbone, to lend credibility to its demands for a political solution to the Kosovo crisis.
At least that is what Milosevic would have us believe, one of the many yarns that he spins us, given that every week he tells us he is withdrawing.
Mr President, in the Middle Ages, monks used to call meat fish and were therefore easy in their consciences when they ate it.
Peoples are not laboratory animals on which the European Union can test its ability to exercise the foreign policy of an international police force.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as happened in previous conflicts we are once again hearing the same platitudes, the same calls for peace, but also the same threats against those disobeying the new world order.
In 1991, it was the Croatians, guilty then of the double crime of freeing themselves from the federal and communist straitjacket of Yugoslavia.
Our European leaders, particularly Jacques Delors, threatened them.
Today, Serbia risks losing all, or at least part, of its province of Kosovo where, in less than two generations, there has been a demographic revolution.
Muslims, who were previously a minority, now make up 90 % of those who live there thanks to a soaring population, continuous immigration and the collapse of the Serbian birth rate.
It has done nothing after 70 years of communist terror, after one hundred million deaths.
Mr President, we need to express our frustration, but we must also send out messages, because we are trying to present military action as an alternative to political action.
I must remind you that the most powerful weapon at the disposal of any parliament is the spoken word and, in my opinion, we can send out three messages.
I do feel that this message should go out to the Serbian people because he really has become an outcast from the international community.
I believe that now is the time to raise this issue and to deal with it seriously within the framework of our relationship with Russia.
To conclude, I think there is another important message for the Council and for the Commission.
She also mentioned NATO intervention, and I think it would be a very good idea for Austria to take this opportunity to apply for membership of NATO in order to underline how much it values the role it plays in international peace and security.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European foreign policy cannot consist of successively demonizing countries as dictated by American interests and their new world order.
Indeed, we might wonder why the United States is still militarily involved in the NATO summit in Europe, 50 years after the end of the Second World War and 10 years after the end of the Cold War.
Humiliating this nation through sanctions will not bring any sort of viable or humane solution.
I do not know whether the European Union is aware that this course of action will inevitably mean that NATO, and on the civilian side the European Union, will have to maintain a presence there for some considerable time.
Madam President-in-Office, perhaps you could say a brief word about whether it is agreed, that, in the event of a military intervention, this will not be a short-term operation, but that back-up operations on the ground will also be necessary immediately afterwards, to provide humanitarian aid and, at long last, to achieve a political solution in Kosovo.
Mr President, I must say, and I must remind Parliament and the Council and the Commission, that three Balkan countries, one of them a Member State of the Community - Greece - and two candidates for membership of the European Union - Bulgaria and Romania - have ended up by agreeing on joint action concerning the issue we call Kosovo.
Consequently, I must stress the need for continual and constant communication between the Council and the Commission and those three Member States, which just recently, only ten days ago, established a tripartite military force precisely so that those countries, which are directly affected by what happens in Kosovo, will be able to deal with any consequences of the situation.
But the solution to the Kosovo problem is above all else political, and if a military intervention of any sort takes place - I will not go into details, because I am not a military man; my only military experience was when I did my national service, so I will leave that to the Council and the Commission - it will have to be an action stemming from a predetermined policy.
In this respect, it increasingly seems to me that anything in which the United Nations has a hand comes to nothing.
And we see China treating its colonies in much the same way.
Madam President-in-Office, you rightly said that our patience is running out.
Opinions on the question - raised by several speakers - of the legal basis for military action against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, have hitherto diverged in the European Union.
There are more than enough models for such solutions already, but the atmosphere is not ripe for negotiation because there is at least one party that is dominating the situation and has opted for a military rather than a political solution.
So I feel I need to respond by making it clear - as I did in my speech - that I have always supported diplomatic solutions to this problem.
Mr President, on behalf of the PPE Group, I wish to propose that the Miranda report be referred back to committee.
For the first amendment, which I put down under the Rule which requires 29 signatures, I got 43 without any difficulty from four political groups.
It will give the Budgetary Control Committee an opportunity to consider the wording of the amendment and, if necessary, to consult the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and alter the wording accordingly, in which case a report could go forward with general support.
I shall ask if there is a speaker in favour, a speaker against and, if necessary, seek the opinion of the rapporteur.
Mr President, I should like to express my support for a request from the PPE Group.
For a few days, a few weeks even, we have watched amendments being judged inadmissible, even though I am not sure whether our Rules of Procedure provide for the power to examine the merits of amendments.
Mr President, I would briefly like to say that I also oppose the request to refer this back to committee.
Indeed, the report was discussed at length and in depth in the committee some months ago.
Therefore, I do not think that there is any justification for postponing this report, which obviously affects the normal functioning of the institutions involved.
Consequently, I think we should vote to proceed with the discussion and vote on this report.
The very considerable tasks that remain to be accomplished in such fields as biotechnology cannot be tackled in isolation from country to country or from continent to continent.
At the same time, the general implementation of the 'Community' identification will contribute to developing the common sense of belonging for the 375 million citizens of the European Union.
This is true both for them and for all those who will see vehicles registered with the Union's colours pass them by, wherever work or tourism leads our fellow citizens beyond our borders.
Watts report (A4-0310/98) The objective of the proposal is excellent and I support the aims: (1) Effect a greater harmonisation of international ferry safety provisions on services within the EU.(2) Ensure effective application of these provisions.(3) Ensure transparency of operating conditions for regular ferry services (including high-speed vessels) within the EU, whatever the flag they are flying.
The growing interest in scheduled sailings within the Community among companies operating ferries under third country flags imposes the need for uniform safety rules applicable to all.
In order to draw up his report, our colleague Francis Watts had organised a hearing on the proposal for a directive on conditions for the operation of regular ro-ro ferry and high speed passenger craft services in the Community.
In fact, the hearing that was held on this proposal for a directive brought to light safety problems that really give us food for thought.
However, it is not the role of a Member to make the public aware of the problems that might affect people's safety or that of their families.
The 2000 human lives that were lost through the tragedies of the Herald of Free Enterprise , the Scandinavian Star and the Estonia should be sufficient to mobilise all the European institutions and transport companies to do everything in their power to improve safety on these boats, which are unavoidable for many travellers.
Like many British people I recall the tragic loss of life in the Herald of Free Enterprise ferry disaster at Zeebrugge.
Teverson report (A4-0331/98) As has been stated throughout the debate, the Commission proposal, as amended by some of the amendments introduced by the report, represents a credible working basis in endeavouring to reach consensus regarding a possible control system that is more reliable, transparent and efficient.
Imbalances therefore remain, even in the Commission proposal, despite the amendments made by this report.
The development of the fishing industry in recent years has necessitated the modernisation of control systems.
Unfortunately, the Commission proposal must also be seen in the context of poor cooperation between the Member States in the monitoring of fisheries.
In a resolution of 22 October 1997, the European Parliament had already condemned the shortcomings in the detection of and inquiries into irregularities and fraud, and the absence of an efficient and consistent prosecution system at European Union level.
The Commission's policy in cases of corruption within its own ranks is still unclear and inconsistent; there is, therefore, a tendency to cover up such cases wherever possible.
Similarly, we approve of the desire to increase the number of UCLAF staff, particularly those working on investigations, the proposal to establish an Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to be responsible for combating fraud on behalf of all the institutions, as well as the technical elements proposed to ensure the necessary independence of this new body.
However, we regret the fact that the Committee on Budgetary Control did not include our proposal stating that the OLAF director should be appointed jointly by the Council and the European Parliament, and we regret, too, that the need for a European Public Prosecutor has not been reiterated.
The solution is for Parliament - whose main function it is - to exercise rigorous control over all the Commission's departments and, in particular, financial control, as is its remit.
It is important to stress that we cannot accept a model that would require an amendment of the Treaty, because that would delay the process for a long, long time, which would not do at all.
The European Parliament will have a significant role to play, and the proposals in the Bösch report provide us with a good negotiating position vis-à-vis the Commission.
The possibility of such activities shows just how relevant the report is that we are giving our opinion on today.
Our rapporteur points out that the effectiveness of the Unit for the Coordination of Fraud Prevention (UCLAF) is restricted by a strict legal and organisational framework that limits its independence.
I therefore fully support the report submitted to us.
The EU anti-fraud unit, known as UCLAF, has a primary function to protect the financial interests of the European Union.
This is an unenviable task, particularly if one reads the recent annual report for 1997 on the fight against fraud in the European Union.
Three hundred and thirty million pounds of this figure related to the loss of EU receipts and the remainder covered the loss in indirect taxation such as customs and excise duties and VAT within the national territories of the 15 EU Member States.
On this date the euro currency will flood the territories of 11 Member States of the EU encompassing a population of over 291 million.
The Amsterdam Treaty provisions give more powers to Europol by putting in place coordinated structures between European Union police forces and related law enforcement agencies, so as to ensure that organised crime can be tackled effectively at European level.
These new powers are only right and proper in light of the fact that we live in an international market where a free movement of goods, persons, services and capital operates.
However, these provisions can and must be utilised to the maximum so as to ensure that the evil of the prospective counterfeiting of the euro currency will be defeated.
The resolution on the independence, role and status of UCLAF aims to strengthen the control of fraud against the Community budget.
In our view, this initiative in principle presupposes that it should be possible to harmonise the criminal law and administration of justice of the individual Member States.
The report also refers to Article 280 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which opens up new possibilities for the control of fraud on a Community-wide basis.
We feel it is important to draw attention to this because it specifically states that the EU may not interfere in national policies in this area.
Clearly the EU cannot assume legislative powers in areas for which provisions have not been ratified by the individual Member States.
The fight against fraud and corruption is a key issue for the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament.
Hence coordination of the fight against fraud - as understood by UCLAF - must always be placed on the best possible footing.
The report proposes the setting-up of a new unit to investigate fraud internally in the EU institutions.
It should be possible for this work to be carried out by UCLAF, but it should have a more independent status with respect to the Commission.
The Edinburgh agreement of 1992 states that 'Denmark will participate fully in cooperation on justice and home affairs on the basis of the provisions of Title VI of the Treaty on European Union'.
The Danish Social Democrats have therefore chosen to abstain from voting on paragraphs K, L and M.
That does not alter the fact, however, that the main intention of the resolution is to strengthen the fight against fraud both in the Member States and internally within the EU system.
I support the Bösch report because his proposals were a possible way forward for UCLAF.
Mr Bösch's proposal for an independent OLAF offers the answer to this problem.
All institutions can be looked at including this Parliament, which I welcome.
The Commission is living in an ivory tower.
Thus greater independence for UCLAF may be one of the few steps that can be taken at the present time to make the unit more effective in its action against fraud involving the EU's financial interests.
That is why I did not vote in favour of the report.
Our group supported the Bösch report mainly because it avoids political cant and provides a rigorous analysis of the internal corruption in the Commission.
The rapporteur does not try to hide the extent of the fraud and corruption within the Commission's services.
In fact, we have lost count of the number of programmes run by the Commission that, over recent months, have been involved in embezzlement and the misappropriation of very substantial sums.
The office he proposes to create will have to work in close cooperation with the European Parliament, one of whose main tasks is to monitor the Commission's activities, particularly its financial activities.
Through the committees of inquiry appointed by the House, we have seen how effective we can be in this field, for example, as regards the way in which the Commission dealt with the BSE issue.
But in order to stop this tendency on the part of the European institutions to foster large-scale fraud, it is also important to apply the principle of subsidiarity strictly and correctly.
The most effective controls are those that are carried out at the levels closest to the taxpayers.
The rapporteur highlights, too, the existence of a 'grey area' that can conceal considerable risks of fraud in 'technical' legislation and its countless implementing regulations and provisions, as well as in the comitology system, with its many committees and other consultative bodies.
In this respect, it is typically the case that very often only a small number of officials from the institutions taking part in the decision-making process have an overall view of the dossier and the state of progress of the procedure.
But, unfortunately, the Treaty of Amsterdam proposes going in the opposite direction.
Sisó Cruellas report (A4-0241/98) A European transport network offers enormous advantages in very different areas.
The TEN programme, which has been extended to cover Eastern and Central Europe, must however be seen in the light of the political and economic pressure that the EU has put on the Eastern European countries in association with demands for certain investment in infrastructure.
Today, we are presented with a new proposal from the Commission on connecting our infrastructure network with that of our neighbours in eastern Europe.
The infrastructure needs assessment process is coordinated by the TINA group, which is made up of senior officials from the Member States and applicant countries and which has its secretariat in Vienna.
This is all very well, but I would have liked us to have been first given information on the state of progress of the 14 projects adopted in the common position.
I know that up until now major national infrastructures have been financed to a large extent by public money.
National investment could have been greater still if all the taxes and duties on transport had been used for investment in infrastructure, but that has not been the case.
Indeed, we are all aware that, in order to build the trans-European networks, we need enormous financial resources, financial resources that the Member States cannot supply in the short term.
We must therefore find other sources of funding.
I do not know, but I sincerely believe that in practically every country it is very difficult to envisage an increase in revenue or public expenditure, and that we must find other possibilities of cofunding for certain infrastructure projects.
However, in my opinion, the unforeseen is already on our doorstep.
Without wanting to stand in the way of aid to the other neighbouring countries of the European Union, I wonder whether we are not holding these negotiations at a dangerously fast speed.
Baldarelli report (A4-0246/98) The continuous increase in the various forms of road traffic calls for integrated management of this traffic at all levels: local, regional, national and European.
The foreseeable developments in road transport telematics are significant and their consequences are positive in that they are likely to have a beneficial effect on the quality of life of all road users, particularly in terms of safety and time-saving.
Having said this, and to leave nobody in any doubt, I wish to make it quite clear that I welcome this new report, which is an effort to fill the legal vacuum somehow, although unfortunately outside the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I am pleased that the European Parliament is discussing a report relating to European Union measures for the tourism industry.
This is very important from an Irish perspective considering the tourism industry plays a very considerable role in generating jobs in the Irish economy.
The present tourism operational programme accounts for 369 million pounds, which is over 8 % of the overall Structural Fund programme presently spent in Ireland.
The introduction of a European single currency should have a positive effect in this regard.
The elimination of transaction costs in eleven Member States within the European Union encompassing a population of over 291 million people will means that the cost of travel and the cost of holidays should reduce even further.
A single European currency will bring with it an increased number of tourists which will mean an increase in the number of jobs created in the tourist industry in Ireland over the next few years.
The Irish Government has a role to play so as to guarantee that the Irish tourism industry develops to its maximum potential.
Discussions will take place shortly between the Irish Government and the European Commission relating to the next share-out of EU Structural Funds for the period 2000-2006.
We do not think that the Community should start harmonising the Member States' tourism policies, as is advocated in this report.
The Commission report on Community actions with an impact on tourism carried out in 95/96 clearly demonstrate two essential aspects.
First, it shows the usefulness of these measures which either directly or indirectly seek to meet the needs of a sector which, despite an overall drop in demand of almost 10 % between 1975 and 1995, continues to occupy a crucial place in the economy and in employment in the European Union (approximately 6 % of Community GDP, over 9 million jobs).
The usefulness of such measures allows us also to conclude, as we have previously stated, that cooperation between shared interests may be ensured without changing the existing legal framework, which shows just how unrealistic some attempts have been to communitise policy in the sector.
However, in this case I want to say that there are many cases which reveal gross incompetence over many years which was rife in DG VI (Administration).
Our group voted against the Miranda report because of its key element, that is, the discharge given to the section on the European Parliament for the 1996 financial year.
It was not until the end of January 1997 that the administration learnt that the additional agreement had never actually been signed by the President.
The rapporteur is asking us today to give discharge to the administration of the European Parliament, despite the fact that this episode demonstrated the alarming inefficiency of the procedure for closing accounts: despite the absence of the President of Parliament's signature to the additional agreement, this procedure allowed ECU 30.76 million to remain in the list of appropriations actually carried over to the 1997 financial year.
What is more, at its meeting of 25 February 1997, the Committee on Budgetary Control approved the closing of the 1996 accounts, including the automatic carry-over of the appropriations in question.
We are trying today to play down this affair by suggesting that, strictly speaking, there was no loss of funds, and that the Member States will do what is necessary to ensure that Parliament's budget is able to finance the D3 purchase within the allotted time.
I voted in favour of the 1996 discharge report by Mr Miranda on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has just adopted its report on the operation of the own resources system.
Article 10 of the own resources decision states that the text should be presented in 1999.
We have decided to do so earlier for one simple reason: the financing system for the Union budget is a vital factor in the negotiations on Agenda 2000.
It is transparent in hiding neither the difficulties nor the advantages of each potential choice.
But I would add that it is a concept that must be handled with caution, as our report clearly shows.
The first deals with the operation of the present system and possible future developments.
The second addresses the issue of budgetary imbalances.
The development of the present system in recent years reflects the changes introduced by the 1988 and 1994 decisions on own resources.
Contributions have become fairer as they are now a more accurate reflection of Member States' ability to pay, as expressed by their gross national product.
In addition, the current system lacks transparency, partly because of the complexity of the correction mechanism for the United Kingdom, but also because of the debasing of the VAT resource which, with the capping of the base, now amounts to little more than a national contribution based on gross national product.
The present system also encounters management difficulties connected with the collection of customs duties and agricultural duties, which we know as traditional own resources.
If we are to move towards a more transparent and logical system, we have two radically different options available.
The first possibility would be to simplify the present system.
This could be done by enhancing the role of the GNP resource in the system of contributions, even though this runs counter to the very concept of own resources.
A bigger role for gross national product would no doubt make the present system simpler and fairer, but it would not give the Union greater financial autonomy.
In this context, following the Cardiff European Council, the Commission has examined the proposal made recently by Spain with the backing of Greece and Portugal to insert a progressive element in the system of contributions.
But this proposal raises problems.
A second option would be to introduce one or more new own resources, in order to broaden the tax base of the own resources system.
Our report contains a long list of proposed or suggested resources.
I will now turn to the sensitive issue of budgetary imbalances.
But Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden have referred to the Fontainebleau compromise, which stated: 'Expenditure policy is ultimately the essential means of resolving the question of budgetary imbalances.
In fact, the United Kingdom is no longer - and will probably be even less so after enlargement - in a unique position as regards its budget balance and relative prosperity.
As regards the future size of the net balances of the four countries mentioned, excluding the cost of enlargement, Agenda 2000 may have no more than marginal, and not necessarily negative, effects on these.
Despite its reservations on the very concept of net balances, the Commission has not shied away from the issue.
Finally, the cost of enlargement has to be shared out fairly by reference to the ability of all the present Member States to contribute.
Should it be agreed that a response must be found to the question of budgetary imbalances, the Commission has identified three fundamental options that, in addition, are not mutually exclusive.
A first option would consist of a return to a unified and simplified financing system.
There could be a simplification of the financing system in favour of a mechanism based more, or even entirely, on the gross national product resource.
As I have already said, the Fontainebleau agreement underscores the role that Community expenditure should play in the correction of budgetary imbalances.
A large part of the budget, intended for structural expenditure, does of course contribute to these imbalances, but this is deliberate since this expenditure is explicitly designed to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the least prosperous Member States.
The other major component of budget expenditure is the common agricultural policy, which is not intended as a means of redistributing wealth between Member States.
Since the common agricultural policy is the source of certain budgetary imbalances, the possibility of reducing the Community contribution to direct aid for farmers could be considered.
To avoid any explosion of the gross resources, which would have to be redistributed between Member States, this option would have to involve a system of partial reimbursement of negative budgetary balances above a certain threshold.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why the Commission is today presenting its report on own resources is, I repeat, because it wants to see all the cards on the table for the final stage of the negotiations on Agenda 2000.
We take as our starting-point the fact that we are bound by rules in the Treaties.
Thus, Article 130a states that the Community is committed to solidarity between the poorer and wealthier Member States, and establishes one of its aims as being to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions.
At the same time, the performance of Member States' national economies - as you also described it - is, even in the VAT system, an essential factor in determining their relative contributions to the EU budget.
At the same time, countries such as Sweden and the Netherlands, with lower GNPs, bear a much higher proportion of the financial burden than the portion of the common budget that they receive.
We note, namely, that Member States' participation in the common policies varies considerably.
But because 45 % of the budget is spent on the agricultural policy, it is obvious that this is where the source of the imbalances lies.
An important precondition for this is that agricultural policy should tend to move away from price guarantees and towards a system of direct income aid coupled with measures to promote stewardship of the countryside and the protection of the environment.
Because these measures are applied directly on the spot in the Member States, it is appropriate to involve them in the funding, as is the case with the other structural policies.
It would not only be a logical development, but would also go a considerable way towards alleviating the problem of net contributions.
Much can be said about our proposal - which we are discussing here for the first time, so have not yet formally agreed - for example, that it will propel the common agricultural policy forward, but it has one additional, indisputable advantage over all the other options you mentioned, namely that it will be possible to implement.
It does not require unanimity in the Council: only a qualified majority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will hear many opinions today, Mr Santer, but one undeniable fact stands out: if the Union's gross domestic product does not grow by at least 2.5 % a year, the current ceiling of 1.27 % of own resources will not suffice to enable us simultaneously to extend Community policies, maintain the cohesion policy and finance enlargement to the East.
The proposal is also counter to financial solidarity and cohesion, and it is unfair, as the committees involved in the parliamentary procedures will tell you, along with the European farmers.
It is inadequate, as you will also be told by the European Council and, furthermore, the proposal is somewhat unworthy of a European institution which should be defending the common interest, as I imagine this Parliament will tell you.
Mr President, we have no doubt as to the importance of a detailed debate on the system of Community own resources and we will analyse this document with particular attention.
Our second concern relates to the fact that we must either define objectives and find the appropriate resources and means to realise them, which is the position we hold, or we must specify the resources from the outset and immediately lay down the objectives that may be achieved with those resources, which would appear to be the Commission's solution, on the extremely restricted basis, as we know, of 1.27 %.
Following the first line of reasoning, it is indeed possible and desirable to have a debate on the system of own resources, particularly with a view to resolving the distortions that have already been caused by the current system, those which are anticipated and others of which we are aware.
However, the Commission is distorting the discussion to some extent in that, before it has even begun, it has already opted for one of the two courses it suggests.
This is because its main concern would appear to be to settle not the problem of own resources, but that of existing imbalances.
It knows that it is not feasible to terminate the UK financial package, it knows that the system of a fair return would mean the end of the very concept of the Community and the end of the principle of solidarity; it does not believe, as we have seen, in the possibility of a progressive system founded on GNP.
It is left with a single option which does not involve own resources but seeks to resolve the problem by reducing spending.
That is what the Commission has brought us, which is to say nothing at all, because this debate contributes nothing new.
The discussion on net contributors, led by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Waigel, can thus confidently be consigned to history, along with the Finance Minister.
If some of the financial burden were transferred from the Union to the Member States, then the EU budget would also have to be reduced by the same amount.
Responsibility for large-scale employment policy must continue to lie with the Member States; it is not possible to fund this at European level.
We are, as Mrs Haug said, a Community committed to solidarity, and the system of own resources also has to be capable of bearing out this claim.
It came into force in 1984 - I wish to state this clearly here - at a time when 71 % of the budget was spent in the agriculture sector, 71 %!
They will find it hard. (Applause) Now, I know that this is a much more difficult area, because here decisions are by unanimity, and that is why I state very clearly: this Community has always distinguished itself by not making any radical demands.
But what we need to prepare ourselves for, what my British colleagues need to prepare themselves for, is the need to find a sensible way to have those parts of the rebate phased out which are not 'agricultural', namely regional and structural policy and thus solidarity within the Community, and future enlargement to the East.
Other Member States endorsed this demand, and it is good that the Commission is now proposing this reform and admitting that there is an imbalance.
That is why Theo Waigel proposed that each Member State's contribution should be restricted to a specific maximum amount, calculated in terms of Member States' GNP.
This restriction is no straightforward rebate, Mr Samland, but should, above all, be seen in the context of the spending reforms, and not only in the agricultural sector, but also in the field of cohesion and structural policy.
If common agricultural policy funding is shifted into the national budgets of Member States, it will be the taxpayers who will pay.
We shall not achieve a politically justified enlargement without all the present Member States putting money into future member countries.
In fact, on this occasion and even more obviously than for Agenda 2000 as a whole, the Commission has put forward unduly cautious proposals, for fear of annoying the Council and, in particular, of annoying certain members of the European Council.
All Member States are equal, but clearly, some Member States are more equal than others in the eyes of the Commission.
We shall be using the euro in a hundred days' time, at least in the financial sector.
They have not dared to break with the nationalistic approach which is really marring the European atmosphere and, in my opinion, they should have put forward a truly European proposal.
It is quite unfair that each citizen's contribution to the European budget should br determined by his country of residence, and not by his income or his wealth.
I am talking about a tax to finance a European budget which, translated into everyday terms, would amount to one cup of coffee a day at the University café throughout the year.
That is what the Community budget costs, ECU 240 per citizen.
At the same time, the European Union is on the threshold of the difficult business of establishing the euro, under such economic conditions and while we are facing the challenge of enlargement.
Some are now suffering, however, and I do not think that the fear of evoking a lethal virus should lead us to ignore this problem completely.
The danger is that this proposal will completely bypass the discussion of CAP reform contained in Agenda 2000.
I remember Commissioner MacSharry, when he proposed the reform in 1992, saying: 'We must redistribute the effects of the agricultural budget among countries, among producers and among regions'.
When you have a budget of this nature, it is obvious that everyone, or a least a large majority of people, are going to be dissatisfied.
The solutions envisaged by the Commission are based on a paradox worthy of Lewis Carroll: the tax that each of us must pay to the Community varies according to what we receive from the Community.
Such an approach is obviously unsatisfactory, but the Commission is forced to carry out this exercise.
As long as we do not have a true Community policy, involving the 15 Member States in objectives such as environment protection, transport networks and town and country planning, the taxpayers in the European Union will not receive full recognition in the Union's budget, but this is something the Member States must do for themselves.
It is very important that the Commission come forward at this particular time with a communication on resources.
My group's point of view is that it is very important that we fundamentally attack the concept of the juste retour .
Obviously the approach should be to achieve a more equitable solution but that requires a north/south balance and also progressivity in the budgetary contributions from all Member States.
Mr President, perhaps it is good to remember that this report represents an obligation which was given to the Commission to a large extent already in Edinburgh.
The Edinburgh Summit decided that the Commission must, first of all, give a report on the operation of the financing system, on the own-resources system.
That is one part of this whole report.
Secondly, we are under an obligation to give a report on the British rebate system, which is also a part of this report.
Thirdly, the Commission was given an obligation to give a report on the potential new own resources.
I hope we have time to pay attention to that - it is about 30 pages.
The decision was taken by the Commission just before 12.
As to the question of the fair return and transparency, we have two objectives which are not always easy to reconcile.
Firstly, we are against the concept of fair return.
Europe and the European Union generate a lot of added value which is shared by all the countries.
Secondly, we are in favour of transparency.
Today the Commission decided that the options presented in the report are interchangeable, can be added to and can be spread over time.
So if there are new options which are well founded, and get the support of the European people and Member States, discussion is wide open.
In our decision today and in our report we state that the shifts in the burden of financing implied by some of these options present regressive elements that might need to be redressed in the context of our solution.
That is clear and, before any other solutions are implemented, this element of certain regressive features must be solved.
This has been the first public debate on the matter.
The debate is closed.
Austria's revised strategy paper must be used as the basis for concrete plans, and we need to consider whether we can organise common reception and asylum procedures at or just outside Europe's borders so that refugees can then be directly distributed among the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one day the right to choose where to live will be recognised as a fundamental human right.
The second point concerns Europol.
Lastly, migration cannot be regarded as a police or border problem; it is an overall cultural and economic problem, which calls for an EU policy of development in the migrants' countries of origin.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Austrian strategy paper was one of the first things to be mentioned here, I should like to say a few words on that, before I go on to make some comments on the question of relations with the Mediterranean countries.
There is, in fact, a 1992 declaration of principles on migration policy, which included some specific strategic points which should now be useful for guiding future European policy on the subject.
Then, in 1994, the European Commission made an extensive new attempt at developing a plan for migration policy, by submitting a very comprehensive and substantial communication to the European Parliament and the Council on immigration and asylum policy.
The purpose of the migration plan, which was seen in isolation in those days, was to come up with an integrated and coherent answer to what was happening on the ground, to identify the key elements for effectively regulating migration and to define a new framework for the Union's action.
But the European Union has not really succeeded in learning any lessons from its experiences of the reality of migration.
Over the last few years the Council has adopted a series of legal acts on illegal immigration, which also apply to relations with Mediterranean countries.
The Council knows that the standard EU travel document is being successfully used by some Member States in their relations with third countries.
The Council and the Council Presidency are also aware of these problems and solutions are being worked on.
As far as development cooperation with the Mediterranean countries is concerned, this is included in the MEDA programme.
Of course we have our contribution to make here but this is one of the main elements of the Barcelona process, and a great deal is being done in this regard too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares Parliament's concerns on the influx of migrants from Mediterranean countries trying to enter illegally the territory of the Member States.
These would-be illegal immigrants are recruited among those who are desperately looking for better conditions of life and they sometimes become victims of the trafficking in human beings.
I entirely agree that the only viable response is to adopt a comprehensive and long-term strategy, as stated in the Commission's 1994 communication on migration and asylum policy, to which reference has already been made.
It is clear that we need a multi-disciplinary approach involving all the relevant actors.
Some activities have already been developed at European Union level.
In 1996 the European drug unit's mandate was extended to cover the fight against trafficking in human beings.
A specific programme on the training and exchange of persons responsible for combating trafficking in human beings, the STOP programme, was adopted by the Council in November 1996.
The Commission has also tabled two proposals dealing with temporary protection and solidarity amongst Member States in cases of mass influxes of displaced persons.
The need to give international protection to persons fleeing from war zones is, of course, a different issue from illegal immigration and Parliament itself took the initiative for two new budget lines concerning the reception and repatriation of such people.
In order to tackle these migration flows, improved cooperation with the third countries concerned is essential.
The framework for this cooperation, having regard to this part of the globe, is the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
One of the basic purposes of MEDA is indeed supporting economic transition and socio- economic development in the Mediterranean region.
In addition, MEDA can support specific measures under the Barcelona Declaration to help cope with illegal immigration.
We shall, for example, be financing a seminar in Spain for police training on this subject.
It must be understood that, under its own regulations, MEDA cannot be used to finance measures in Member States to fight legal immigration.
That would be against the regulation and, more important, it would send a wrong political signal to our Mediterranean partners.
The Commission shares the view that improved cooperation at European level is crucial to manage immigration flows.
The entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty will provide a good opportunity to enhance our efforts further and develop new and more efficient tools in all these areas.
I can assure you that the Commission will make the most of these new provisions in order to help manage immigration flows, to improve the fight against trafficking in human beings and also to improve the situation for victims.
I am referring, of course, to police cooperation, and dialogue with third countries to enable us to make a joint attempt to fight against trafficking in human beings, and to fight together against everything with contributes to this disaster.
Faced with this situation, we need to increase cooperation within the European Union, strengthening, as has already been stated, the regular exchange of information on the criminal networks organising illegal immigration.
The legislative work undertaken by the Member States and the administrations themselves constitutes a great change.
Nevertheless, in order to resolve this problem we must speed up the creation of a common judicial and police area, and of a coherent and homogeneous policy on immigration and asylum in the Union.
This problem affects us all and, as we have often emphasised in this House, it can only be successfully resolved through cooperation.
The Council and the Commission should warn the Maghreb and the Mediterranean countries that unless they take action against illegal immigration, the European Union will, regrettably, be forced to reconsider Community aid to those countries when the MEDA programme is reviewed in 1999.
Of course, countries which make a greater effort to stem the flow of immigrants will benefit from more favourable treatment by the European Union.
The European Union - the Austrian Presidency has already commented along these lines - should not sign any more agreements in the region unless they include the clause on the repatriation of illegal immigrants, which in my opinion will be of considerable help in resolving this problem.
The migration of peoples is part of world history.
Clearly the problem must be tackled not as a problem but as an opportunity, because migration will be our future in the next century.
I believe the time has come for the European authorities to take swift and effective action to resolve this problem.
Above all, the European Union must formulate, once and for all, a policy of genuine cooperation with these Mediterranean states.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to quote some words spoken yesterday in Madrid at the launching of Sami Nair's latest book, entitled: 'Mediterráneo hoy, entre el diálogo y el rechazo '.
Mr President, for many years now thousands of people from North African countries have been trying, by taking risks that are well known, to cross the Mediterranean and gain a foothold in our continent.
They ask for asylum, they ask for jobs and they ask for lives for themselves and their families.
Europe, which is beset by its own problems, must not just sit back and build ramparts, in case it becomes a fortress.
Madam President, the European Parliament is beginning to show concern at the influx of illegal immigrants from the southern Mediterranean, and it is right to do so.
But in the joint motion for a resolution, it proposes as a solution the reform of the immigration policy provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam and, in this respect, it is wrong.
This measure would be dangerous and even dictatorial, because it is unthinkable that in the future national parliaments and governments might no longer have any right of proposal in the field of immigration.
The third is the move to qualified majority voting on a simple decision of the Council, which would also be a mistake.
In fact, the abolition of sovereignty and national frontiers would remove all sense of responsibility from the Member States.
Secondly, it is in the interests of all the countries of Europe to maintain the best possible relations with the countries across the Mediterranean, which is precisely where political and economic circumstances could trigger a new wave of migrants at any time.
We need to focus our development aid as far as possible on those countries and conclude agreements not just to rule out further migration, but to leave the door open for both illegal and legal immigrants already in Europe to return home.
Thirdly, I still think that a territoriality principle must be introduced for political asylum-seekers, so that genuine political refugees - and these make up only a very small percentage of the total - are not given asylum in Europe, but in neighbouring countries on the same continent, preferably countries which have basically the same culture as the country of origin.
Madam President, the problem of migrants coming in to the EU from across the Mediterranean affects us all.
The former are economic refugees and the latter are asylum seekers.
Groups of them build up in the two camps, the one in Ceuta, which is very sub-standard, and the more well- established camp in Melilla, which has been funded partly by the EU.
What we need is a common European policy on these issues, as Sir Leon mentioned.
We equally need to put pressure on the countries of origin and countries of transit to make sure that they play their part in helping to staunch this flow.
Finally, as a number of speakers have stated, we have to help remove the causes.
We have to help make sure that we get economic development in the countries of origin.
We have to ensure that the political situation there is such that its people can remain there rather than have to flee, abandoning their homes and, in many cases, their families.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party calls on the Commission, and above all the Council, to ensure that this problem is tackled thoroughly, in political and practical terms - under the third chapter of the Barcelona Declaration, and more generally under the European Union's third pillar - by introducing specific actions for the monitoring and assistance of clandestine immigrants and by negotiating specific measures concerning readmission.
It would therefore be advisable to institute a form of multilateral cooperation, perhaps based on cooperation between the Council of Ministers and third countries, and on Community framework legislation designed to tackle the repatriation of all clandestine immigrants in the same fashion, always with due regard for their basic rights, and helping at the same time to consolidate democratic, social and economic development in the countries of migration.
Only by means of such an approach, which should be incorporated into both the MEDA programme and the Schengen Agreement, will it be possible in future to protect the rights of immigrants, who should no longer be clandestine but sought out by Europe on the basis of a new employment policy and new, clear, social legislation enabling them to be integrated into Europe's social and economic framework and to develop their own potential to the full.
A common policy would prevent individual Member States from passing the buck or implementing dissimilar, contrasting policies both in terms of reception, expulsion or insertion into the world of work - with the ensuing social prerogatives - and in terms of the concomitant and much-needed policy of developing economic activities and production in countries where people are still today dying as a result of famine and warfare.
With regard to reception centres, for example, if immigrants are to be housed in dignity and with respect for their human rights, there is a pressing need for many more such centres, ones that are far superior to the existing ones in Italy and other countries.
Some interesting agreements have already been drawn up in this area, for example by our government.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all agreed that the pressure of immigration from or via North Africa to Europe is dramatically increasing.
The reasons for the migratory pressures are sufficiently well-known - I do not want to go through them here again, as we are all aware of them.
We have the Geneva Convention, but we know that this is no longer enough, because only 10 % of those who come to us are treated as asylum-seekers in accordance with it.
We need other instruments and concepts for the remainder, in order to be able to help both them and ourselves.
I am glad that you have mentioned the need, for instance, to reduce the pressure for migration through intervention in the crisis regions, to combat trafficking in human beings, and to regulate immigration.
Madam President, all the Member States of the European Union have contributed to the Euro-Mediterranean policy, and they should also all contribute to helping the Member States who have to deal with these problems.
The southern Mediterranean countries are begging us to make a determined effort to come up with solutions quickly.
Madam President, nowadays, the European Union is a prime destination for many who, travelling from the Eastern countries, Latin America, and northern and central Africa, wish to cross its borders in search of solutions to the most pressing problems in their daily lives.
The association agreements - the negotiation and ratification of which is unacceptably slow, the Barcelona Conference - full of good intentions but with few practical results, and the MEDA programmes are valid instruments through which to express our solidarity with the development of the people of the Mediterranean.
The Commission and the Council must include meetings and ongoing studies of migration flows in their schedules.
Thank you, Madam President, for allowing me to speak at the end of this debate.
We had no problems in doing so but I would, however, like to raise several points that I feel strongly about in relation to the debate on immigrants from the southern Mediterranean.
I believe that, in this respect, we need to highlight the despair of the immigrants who have no hope of a future in their own country and who therefore believe that the only solution to their sorry fate is to flee to the countries on the other side of the Mediterranean.
We must hope that the authorities in the southern Mediterranean countries will cooperate fully with the Member States of the European Union in implementing measures to control illegal immigration.
We believe, too, that the police treatment of illegal immigrants and the legal provisions relating to them are inadequate.
I have observed that many Members from the Mediterranean region have spoken here and that is why the issue of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership is an essential part of this debate.
My country harbours the same fears about those countries as Spain probably does about the Maghreb countries.
But this question is being worked on very closely in the European Union context too, as we consider it to be important not only with respect to the Mediterranean countries but also for the whole of the central European region.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Having closely monitored the situation for 15 months, including a visit to Hong Kong to meet and listen to a wide cross section of viewpoints, I believe that the transition was more successful than many of us would have dared to hope.
However, I have a number of concerns in relation to the implementation of democracy, the operation of the rule of law and the protection of human rights, which are detailed in my report and which the European Parliament must continue to observe closely.
The holding of elections on 24 May this year marked an important milestone in the development of democracy.
However, this satisfaction is tempered by the fact that the electoral system is less than fully democratic with too much power vested in the hands of the elitist functional constituencies.
The rule of law requires that all laws apply to all citizens equally, that they are enforced impartially, that they are justiciable in open courts accessible to all.
In the unusual, indeed unique, HKSAR constitutional arrangements where autonomy is threatened by surrogacy, the independence of the judiciary assumes extra importance in discharging its role of upholding the rule of law and if necessary drawing attention to any democratic or constitutional deficit which is inhibiting the application of the rule of law to the citizens of Hong Kong.
Any objective observer must worry that a number of recent cases, notably the Xinhua case, the Hong Kong Standard case, the Ma Wai Kwan case and the right of abode case call into question the efficacy of the rule of law in the Hong Kong SAR.
As regards the protection of human rights, a number of issues perturb me.
The introduction of the concept of national security is a worrying development.
The suspension of labour laws, attempts to undermine the editorial freedom of the press and the implications of the introduction of laws under Article 23 of the Basic Law are all warning signs confirming the need to monitor the situation and to guarantee that there is no erosion of fundamental human rights and freedoms.
The European Union has a very important role to play in the evolution of Hong Kong.
Our strategy must at all times consistently and continuously underpin the 'one country, two systems' concept.
I hope the Commissioner, who I am glad to see here for this debate, will take on board the recommendations included in this report when he produces his own annual report.
Finally, I would like to thank all those who contributed to the drafting of this report.
I hope this is a balanced report and I hope it charts the way forward.
This report emphasises the importance of Hong Kong to the European Union and indeed to the global economic system, as we have seen in the last few weeks.
The idea of 'one country, two systems' appears to work.
While the Chief Executive, Tung Chee-hwa was somewhat dubious in his response, President Jiang Zemin was very clear in condemning any influence in Hong Kong affairs.
We therefore look forward to full democracy in Hong Kong as soon as possible.
That worry has been accentuated by the case of Emily Lau, who has been involved in dispute for nearly 12 months with the New China News Agency.
One further area which will need to be watched carefully is the need for the new Legislative Council to pass legislation on issues such as subversion and treason under Article 23 of the Basic Law.
How Hong Kong handles that will be a key to the continuing success of 'one country, two systems'.
The best sign of the success of 'one country, two systems' has been that Hong Kong has been able, so far, to weather the Asian crisis, and to do so without interference from China, but with support from China.
I would be interested to hear Commissioner Brittan's observations on that aspect.
Clearly Hong Kong has to have autonomy in its own economic affairs but it also has to have the support of China.
I believe this would be an important step forward in developing greater commercial ties between the European Union and Hong Kong.
Let us hope that we can continue to work closely with the authorities of Hong Kong to develop a better future for the residents of Hong Kong and to develop Hong Kong's important status as a keystone in the Asian economy.
Hong Kong's success story demonstrated early on the advantages of a market economy system over old-style socialist economic planning.
Let us use our influence to maintain it as a home for freedom in the future.
Madam President, the Commission communication is called 'Beyond 1997'.
It was the fourth such visit in four years.
The actions of the Hong Kong monetary authority may not have pleased classical economists, but their response bore the hallmark 'made in Hong Kong' and not 'made in China'.
Yet, as this excellent report shows, it is important not to be naive.
A democratically elected Parliament has been abolished and replaced by a new Legislative Council rigged in favour of Beijing and against the free will of the Hong Kong people.
There has been a gradual but consistent repeal of human rights laws and undermining of institutions essential to their protection.
The new police guidelines on demonstrations, issued a week ago, are just the latest example of this.
Hong Kong people must speak out against every potential abuse, and we must support them in so doing, not just by giving them visa-free entry to the European Union but by supporting education in democracy in Hong Kong.
Tony Blair, as the Prime Minister of a Member State, is visiting China this week and almost ignoring human rights.
Finally, it would be extremely useful to hear how the EU bureau has expanded its activities and in particular to receive a report on its human rights monitoring.
However, the establishment of a form of parliament such as exists in democratic countries is not likely to happen before 2008.
Universal suffrage for the election of all of the citizens' representatives will not come into effect for another 10 years.
We must stress in passing that it is important to grant entry to those holding a passport from the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region without requiring a visa, just as the citizens of the European Union have access to Hong Kong without a visa.
The high volume of trade and movement of people, ideas, capital and goods is of vital importance for Hong Kong.
It is not only the wellbeing of this advanced region of China that is at stake, but also our own wellbeing.
Madam President, we all have good reasons for following developments in Hong Kong - which are examined in great detail by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate - for itself, for its inhabitants, and for what it can mean for a country as important as China.
In my own case, being Portuguese, the situation is of particular interest given its inevitable implications for the integration process for Macau.
That will take place, a quarter of a century after the Portuguese revolution of 25 April 1974, under conditions that are much more favourable from every point of view.
On the one hand, it has been possible over these years to provide the territory with infrastructure and services which have been particularly important for its development and for the quality of life of its population, including the airport, the university, the new port, the waste processing plant, etcetera.
Moreover, and of particular significance, the Legislative Assembly has been approving the territory's own legislation, in complete freedom and in accordance with universal values that are also the values of its population.
It is important, therefore, that the Commission - and for that reason, I address the Commissioner - should give Macau a higher profile through its representation in Hong Kong or, preferably, by opening a representation in Macau, whose administration, we are sure, would not fail to offer whatever support was needed.
In practical terms one must acknowledge that in the Hong Kong situation, overall, the development of - albeit a limited - democracy has been scrupulously observed.
At the present time the concern is rather with economic developments taking place in that part of the world.
I am still concerned about this, particularly when I hear some speakers say that the visa question is something we do not take seriously, and that only eight countries admit visa-holders to Europe.
The Commission can play a role because Schengen will be incorporated in the Treaty of the European Union.
I hope that the Commission will say that it will take an initiative on this point.
This is the kind of concrete solidarity which we must maintain.
I hope that with next year's report we can say that things are better than they are at the present time.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, may I too welcome Mr Cushnahan's admirable report and the motion for a resolution.
I really want to underline the remarkable nature of what has occurred because it is true to say that the introduction of the one country/two systems arrangement is unique, and to introduce it as successfully as has been done is a remarkable achievement; tribute is due both to Hong Kong and to China itself for that fact.
The resolution calls for the acceleration of the introduction of universal suffrage.
In his visit to Brussels last February the Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa said: 'It is up to us, the people of Hong Kong, to decide for ourselves the further development of the democratic process with the ultimate aim of universal suffrage'.
That is one key way in which the European Union can support Hong Kong's economic autonomy and reinforce the one country/two systems concept.
It is equally important that Hong Kong should convince European countries that its immigration, policing and customs procedures are efficient and reliable.
The Commission is convinced that Hong Kong's liberal economy, not least its open trading regime, underpinned by WTO membership, will act as an example and a spur to continued economic reform in China, notwithstanding the current problems related to the Asian financial crisis.
Within the WTO there is good cooperation between the European Union and Hong Kong.
Hong Kong of course supports it, and provides a unique example to China of the benefits of WTO membership.
The resolution also calls for wider cooperation in order to strengthen EU-Hong Kong relations and reinforce Hong Kong autonomy.
We are on the verge of concluding a customs cooperation agreement with Hong Kong which I hope President Santer will be able to initial when in Hong Kong, while also exploring the possibility of more ambitious agreements.
We need to take account of the delicate division of responsibilities between Hong Kong and Beijing in the foreign relations field but we need, nonetheless, to explore what Hong Kong can do to the maximum possible extent.
The motion calls on the Commission to monitor the autonomy and financial stability of the Hong Kong market.
The Commission is monitoring the financial and economic situation from our office in Hong Kong, but also by means of frequent visits from officials in the SAR and through visits of high-ranking officials to Brussels.
That monitoring will be reflected in our first annual report on Hong Kong which we will be publishing shortly.
We are analysing those measures closely and will comment on them in our first annual report.
As I mentioned, President Santer and I will be visiting Hong Kong at the beginning of November, so the publication of our report will be timely.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Also, I should stress that respect for human rights and democratic freedoms, and also of course the preservation of press freedom, form the cornerstone of the entire construction of Europe, of that there is no doubt.
When you say that you cannot prevent occasional shortcomings as regards freedom of the press, you have to ensure that it is prevented because Article F of the Maastricht Treaty states that the European Union shall respect the European Convention on Human Rights.
It is not enough to say that sometimes, as the President-in-Office said, the Council cannot prevent occasional shortcomings.
Mr President, Mr Ephremidis, I have to tell you once again that we only have certain powers.
Mr President, Mr Camisón Asensio, the gas pipeline that the Honourable Member refers to is part of Project E4 listed in Decision No 1254/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 1996 on a series of guidelines concerning trans-European networks in the energy sector.
E4 is part of the 'Introduction of natural gas into new regions' section, and deals with the development of gas networks in the regions of Galicia, Extremadura, Andalusia, the south of Valencia and Murcia, and also with a liquefied natural gas facility in Galicia.
Finally, have these programmes allowed for the current tendency towards a reduction in the consumption of natural gas, evident in many Member States of the European Union?
In other words, had the Council foreseen this tendency towards reduction?
In view of the explanations already given, I would refer you to the Commission, which will provide you with more precise information on exact amounts and specific questions, especially as to whether or not this also falls under INTERREG.
I cannot, unfortunately, provide any oral information on this but if you wish, I would be happy to answer in writing.
The question was on measures to be adopted by the Council and, in particular, we queried whether the Austrian Presidency has any plans to ensure that the Council will indeed be present at meetings of the Committee on Petitions.
I would therefore be grateful, Madam President-in-Office, if you could tell me whether arrangements are being made to ensure that the Council will be present at meetings of the Committee on Petitions, and when this might happen.
In addition, I can say that in a case where the responsibilities in question are the Council's own (something that is purely hypothetical, as I said), then it would carry out a careful analysis of each element of the dossier, and take appropriate measures if necessary.
In the past few years, all we have had is an occasional visit from a representative of the Council, sometimes when the Ombudsman was present to give a report to the committee - which is welcome - but very rarely when there was a matter of particular concern to one of the Member States.
I shall talk to Secretary-General Trumpf about this, and if it is as you say, then a solution can certainly be found.
Question No 4 by Olivier Dupuis (H-0849/98) Subject: Results of the Dayton agreements According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), when the Dayton agreements were signed in December 1995, more than 1 million Bosnians were displaced within the territory of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, while nearly 1 million were refugees in third countries.
The return of refugees constitutes one of the main challenges facing the international community in the implementation of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreements.
It has never been problem-free, and the fact that most refugees who have not yet returned must go back to areas in which they will form a minority complicates the situation still further.
The Council would like to reaffirm the fundamental right established in the Peace Agreement of all refugees and displaced persons freely to return to their homes of origin.
The state of progress in Bosnia will be measured in October, when the EU Commission carries out its regular six-monthly review of compliance with the criteria laid down in the EU's regional approach, which was established in April 1997 for all countries in the western Balkans region.
At the last review in April, the Commission ruled out establishing cooperation agreements with Bosnia, Croatia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, citing overall concerns on democratic reforms, respect for human rights and minorities, and the slowness in helping refugees return.
Madam President-in-Office, you stated that the Council would never recognise the partition of Bosnia.
Mr President, Mr Dupuis, I believe that there is one thing in particular that you can say about Bosnia-Herzegovina, and this is that if the international community had wanted to break its promises there, as you suggest, then it would certainly not have sent multinational troops, and would not have such a heavy commitment there to this day.
For the first time since the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed, moderate parties in favour of the Dayton Agreement are in control of the legislative branches in both territorial areas and at all national levels of government.
Although the result of the presidential elections in the Republika Srpska does constitute a symbolic defeat, it is compensated for by the substantial gains for parties supporting Dayton at all levels of government.
Secondly, the Republika Srpska should be shielded from the effects of the Kosovo crisis.
Fourthly, the preparations for the local elections in 1999 should be taken in hand.
These considerations should enable us to be prepared when we go into the next Peace Implementation Conference in December in Madrid, where we will continue to advocate a multi-ethnic, pluralistic Bosnia.
As for the constitutional state, the creation of an independent multi-ethnic judiciary, a professional multi-ethnic police force, and resistance to all forms of parallel structure are also prerequisites for a democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here I think that the international community has achieved something in the last few years.
This is a part of the important package agreed at the EU-US summit meeting in London on 18 May.
The Union's position on the matter is set out in the EU unilateral statement, which also forms part of the London package, and which was confirmed by the Council on 25 May.
The Union does not accept that anything in the London summit package in any way vindicates the principles underlying the Liberty Act, particularly not the imposition of secondary boycotts and retroactive legislation with extraterritorial effect.
On the question of expropriation, in a letter to Mrs Albright of 18 May which is also part of the London package, Sir Leon Brittan has accepted that according to information from the United States it appears that, having regard to the discriminatory provisions of Cuba's Law 851, the expropriations in a number of cases were contrary to international law.
The problem is that in the interpretation of the agreements between the European Union and the United States set out in that letter, it is stated that this interpretation serves as a basis for the philosophy and general aims of United States legislation.
I am aware that the European Union does not agree with it, at least not according to the unilateral declaration issued in May.
The first question I would therefore like to put to you is this: what reaction does the content of this letter produce in the Council?
But as I said, if I have interpreted things correctly, I can see some fairly positive opportunities for the future.
Can she assure us that we will stand by the statements which have been made on a number of occasions in this House, at least by Sir Leon Brittan?
Mr President, Mr Newens, the European Union is greatly interested in improving transatlantic relations and especially in foreign policy cooperation, and differences in opinion on Cuba should not impair the effectiveness of these.
The letter goes on to state something even more surprising, namely that the European Union must refer to the information which the United States holds on expropriated assets before helping any business wishing to invest in Cuba.
Cuba also warned the EU at the beginning of June 1998 against inciting opposition groups and human rights activists.
Of course the EU will not accept that anything in the package of measures agreed at the London summit in any way vindicates the principles of the Liberty Act, particularly not the imposition of a secondary boycott and retroactive legislation with extraterritorial effect.
It does not claim to provide an overview of future EC-policy in these areas, but does - as similar initiatives earlier (like the Commission's communication of 1994) - try to ensure that in determining such policy, the decision-makers have at their disposal as broad a basis as possible on which to take their decisions.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, I regret the fact that my question has lost some of its relevance since it was submitted - this has all become common knowledge in the meantime.
Of course many of the refugees coming into Western Europe today are coming in a different way to that perceived 50 years ago at the time of the Geneva Convention.
However, it seems to me that their plight and the problems they suffer are the same, whether they are being persecuted by a government or simply fleeing disorder, civil war or chaos in society from which the authorities of their country are unable to protect them.
Many of us feel the individual right must be preserved.
Question No 7 by John McCartin (H-0860/98) Subject: Cost of motor vehicles and vehicle insurance in Ireland Is the Council aware of the wide divergence within the EU of the cost of motor vehicles and the cost of motor vehicle insurance and does the Council consider that this contributes to a distortion of competition in the single market and are any initiatives being taken by the Council to resolve this situation?
The aim of the general and specific legislation is to ensure that all Community citizens have access to the widest possible range of insurance products.
Perhaps I made a mistake in putting this question to the Council rather than the Commission, because there is immense frustration in Ireland, with young people in particular.
Young men looking for their first job, if that job involves driving a car in Ireland, have to pay something like ECU 50 for insurance per week.
If they were in Brussels or in a city in the UK, they would probably pay only a quarter of that.
The fact that we have failed, and the Council has failed, to harmonise taxation, creates a situation in which motor vehicles cost a lot more in the first place, and this has some knock-on effect in the insurance sector, but it is not sufficient to explain it.
The fact that insurance companies in the UK, Belgium and Germany are not competing in the Irish market was due, I felt, to a failure of the European Union to enforce the right of establishment and the right to equal access to the market.
Mr President, Mr McCartin, as I have already explained in my earlier reply with particular regard to the car sector, the Commission has adopted a number of rules to ensure that there is transparency in car prices across the whole of Europe.
In the insurance field, I would refer the Honourable Member to Directive 92/49/EEC, which aims to regulate activity in this sector and ensure greater competition.
I believe that the introduction of the euro will definitely have positive effects for the consumer in the long term.
And, in any event, is there a date beyond which we will be able to say that the prices of cars will be comparable throughout the European Union?
Allow me also to remind you that fixing insurance premiums falls within the remit of Member States.
I am sorry, Mr Posselt, but I gave the floor to the Members who asked first.
Question No 8 by Anna Karamanou (H-0862/98) Subject: Role of the media in the increased sexual exploitation of women According to a recent statement by the Council of Europe, women are the main victims of sexual exploitation using the networks, which constitutes a serious violation of human rights.
Mr President, Mrs Karamanou, in response to your question, I would first like to stress that the Council is fully aware that this issue and the points you have raised are an extremely serious problem.
The Austrian Presidency shall therefore try to the best of its ability to bring to an early conclusion the consultations currently underway on issues such as the joint action to fight child pornography on the Internet, the Community action plan on encouraging the safe use of the Internet by fighting illegal and harmful content, and the Community action programme on measures to combat violence against young persons, women and children (DAPHNE).
The presidency is confident that, with the impetus it gives, Member States will be able to find a joint basis for adopting these instruments.
I am therefore certain that the Community and the Member States will devote their full attention to initiatives taken under the auspices of the UN.
These involve in particular a plan to end crime organised on an international level, a protocol on trafficking in women and children and a draft voluntary protocol to the agreement on the rights of the child, which deals with the sale of children, their sexual exploitation and also child prostitution and pornography.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office what the Council has done to create new, appropriate and effective European institutions, capable of developing joint action at international and European level and of establishing common sanctions and penalties that fit the seriousness of the crime.
I would just mention the following: two joint actions, from 29 November 1996 and 24 February 1997, for an exchange programme and measures to combat trafficking in people and the sexual exploitation of children; extending Europol's mandate to include the prevention of and fight against trafficking in people, as I said before; the 28 April 1997 action plan for fighting organised crime; the EU-US common initiative against trafficking in women (it seems to us important that this issue has now been taken up in the transatlantic dialogue); and finally the Council conclusions of 19 March 1998 on 10 principles for an action plan proposed by the G8 to combat crime in the leading sectors of technology.
And are the rumours we sometimes hear in this Parliament true that hundreds of thousands of young girls and children are being brought illegally into the EU from the candidate countries?
The European Parliament and the Commission are to run a campaign next year against violence against women.
It will looked in particular at the situation women are faced with in criminal proceedings when they have become the victims of domestic violence, the specific aspects of violence against female migrants and their special need for protection because of their legal and economic situation as foreigners, and the impact of each of these on the work of the police.
Mr President, as you know, many criminal acts are now perpetrated on the Internet.
This is also true of child prostitution and trafficking in women, and the trade in organs which often goes with them.
Maybe we should be thinking in terms of some type of code of conduct for the user, because it is going to be very difficult to develop specific legislation.
Question No 9 by Astrid Thors (H-0867/98) Subject: Reduced VAT for labour intensive activities Commissioner Monti at one time proposed that the Member States reduce VAT on labour-intensive activities to encourage job-creation.
On the basis of this review the Council will then judge whether the Commission should be requested to present a proposal on the area referred to in Mrs Thors's question.
The Commission produced its communication on 13 November last year.
Yet we have 18 million unemployed.
Mr President, Mrs Thors, firstly of course I share your concern about the level of employment and about the need to combat unemployment wherever possible.
Mr President, in relation to the labour-intensive industries the problem is competition from third countries, the cheap labour countries.
I have this problem in my own constituency.
These questions are also particularly important in the framework of the Lomé negotiations that we have just begun.
Of course I cannot go into details on this question now - I am not really an expert on these financial negotiations - but I can tell you that you were right in making the point that every aspect of tax management naturally has a major effect on the entire global economy.
Thank you, Madam President-in-Office.
I commiserate with those Members who have been waiting patiently, but that is the way of things here in Parliament.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have the task of considering the common position established by the Council with a view to adopting a programme of Community action on pollution-related diseases.
In order to understand the exact context in which the amendments may and should be voted on, it is essential to realise that the purpose of this programme is not to take direct action to combat the emission of pollutants, nor to combat pollution-related diseases, as has already been the objective of other directives.
It is also an information programme for the public on pollutants and related diseases.
That is what we want to reassert in the amendments tabled: the first part of Amendment No 5 and Amendments Nos 10, 12, 13 and 14.
This programme also aims to pool the experience of the Member States, international organisations and various third countries.
We welcome, in particular, the fact that it covers diseases related to all forms of pollution, as we had requested at first reading.
We had called for the information on pollution-related diseases referred to in Article 1(2)(a) to include clear information on those diseases, a point that has not been incorporated in the common position.
Furthermore, the duration of the programme has been reduced to three years, although it was set at five years in the original proposal.
We could accept these changes in the duration and funding provided this proposal was actually, as the European Commission claims, only a first step in this field.
But if that is not the case, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection asks, in Amendments Nos 2 and 4, for the duration of this programme to be extended once again to five years, and for the overall financial framework to be set at ECU 7 million.
We must also take action to promote knowledge of the behaviour patterns, ways of life and eating habits that make it possible to reduce the risk from various forms of pollution, as we stress in Amendment No 15.
We must also point out that, in the Commission's view, the reference to Article 228 in Article 6 on international cooperation is inappropriate, as the text relates to technical cooperation rather than international agreements as such.
Of course the EU does have a role to play, partly by pledging money for research, partly by facilitating the exchange of experience in the field of health and partly - most important of all - by ensuring that its own policy is healthy, integrating health aspects into both transport and industrial policy.
The Treaty of Amsterdam enables us to do this.
Madam President, these programmes aimed at improving the European dimension of public health as always receive the support of Parliament and, in particular, that of the Group of the European People's Party.
In other words, Parliament should have access - especially in view of the next stage in which this Parliament will have greater legislative power - to the Commission's background documents on the basis of which it drafts its proposals, so that we perhaps might be able to avoid some inappropriate interpretations or interventions.
If our forests have decreased by 30 %, it is because something is happening.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Group supports the Cabrol report, but we have two comments.
What is more, we believe that we are moving in the right direction since the action programmes are actually meeting this need of the population and the citizens.
In the context of this particular issue, these diseases appear to act as a kind of warning signal and a point of reference in trying to understand what is happening to the model of industrial development that exists in the European Union.
This is why we think that the proposal being put forward is highly relevant, as are all the amendments tabled by Mr Cabrol.
However, we are still concerned.
We are taking action, but our growth model is the cause of these diseases, and this cause must be attacked at its source.
It is extremely important that action is taken to ensure that we reduce the amount of pollution-related diseases.
We need at least five years.
As well as that, funding is extremely important.
Madam President, in welcoming this report I should like to pay tribute to the rapporteur.
I worked on the proposal for a sharing of resources amongst Member States, international organisations and third countries.
Many diseases, and particularly many cancers, are caused by the presence of pollutants in the air, in water and even in food, without a relation of cause and effect being clearly established or even quantified.
It is outrageous to hear a European Commissioner state, here before the House, that the market will decide whether a product is good or bad.
I would like to thank Professor Cabrol for shedding a little light on this rather nebulous world.
And I would like to thank Mrs McKenna for trying to make the report even more effective.
The effects of pollution not only contribute to the manifestation of respiratory diseases, but extend to disorders of other systems which can become apparent after prolonged exposure and as a result of probable synergism between various pollutants.
Indeed, if we bear in mind that we are not at risk from just one harmful factor but from many simultaneously, then we can surmise that their cumulative effect may even have an impact on the resistance, ageing and life expectancy of the human organism.
The phenomenon must therefore be investigated for pathogenic interactions between two or more environmental pollutants, as mentioned in Amendments Nos 12 and 13.
On the basis of the exchanges of information and experience which it is proposed should take place between the Member States, I am confident that new and useful data will be recorded and that conclusions will emerge concerning effective ways to combat diseases caused by or related to environmental pollution.
This is bound to bring action which will include the dissemination of the data, and information of the public and consumers, as mentioned in Amendments Nos 10, 14 and 16.
Combating these diseases cannot, however, be just a matter of health policy, but their prevention requires action in all areas of social policy.
I also support the suggestion that the financial framework for the programme should be increased toECU 7 million.
This is an initial step towards the adoption of more ambitious programmes in the increasingly tough fight against growing pollution in our society, which has such an impact on the state of health of the EU's citizens.
The proposal is a key element of the Community's overall approach to the prevention of pollution-related diseases.
Pollutants persist in our environment because it is not always feasible to reduce or limit them for technical or economic reasons.
It is therefore necessary to complement our actions on emission controls and exporter limits with activities in the area of public health aimed at reducing the health risk caused by the various forms of pollution.
The prevention of pollution-related diseases through better understanding of how the pollutants cause or aggravate them is one of the objectives of the proposed programme.
Respiratory diseases and allergies, which are of increasing public health concern throughout Europe, are an area which the Commission considers should be given very special attention.
At the first reading the Commission accepted four of Parliament's amendments.
Subsequently the Council adopted a common position and to avoid any ambiguity I will say immediately that the Commission has accepted the common position.
Consequently the Commission is only able to accept two amendments today: Amendments Nos 1 and 15, since these do not have legal or budgetary consequences for the common position text.
Amendments Nos 5, 10 14 and 16 extend the scope of the common position beyond policy development.
The aim of this particular programme is to see how we can influence policy in that public health framework.
We are now going to make the best use of this programme, and put together all the benefits of the research so that we can move into the mainstream in the new framework.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Hence the importance, from a humanitarian and health point of view, of the programme of Community action on rare diseases, which is one of the proposals being made in the field of public health in Europe for the four years 1999-2003.
At our first reading, the European Parliament considered this action programme to be of undoubted benefit, and greatly improved it through 28 amendments, which among other things provided for the people most directly affected - the sufferers themselves - and their families to be involved in the programme.
Very few of the suggestions contained in the amendments tabled at first reading were accepted by the Council: of the 28 adopted by this House, the Council took up only two in full and four in part.
In some Member States, data are collected and measures are more or less well organised; in others this does not happen.
Here, as in other sectors, we must centralise the gathering of up-to-date data and all necessary information as to the development, number and clusters of cases of the rare diseases concerned.
The Committee on the Environment has once again proposed the sum of ECU 14 million, as opposed to the ECU 6.5 m proposed for the five years of the programme's operation.
It is true that similar mixed committees are envisaged in other public health programmes, but in this specific one, considering the type of measures intended, we find the position adopted by the Council to be entirely inappropriate and unwarranted; it would appear, moreover, that the Commission too has reservations in this regard.
We are therefore retabling the amendment concerning the requirement that one of the two representatives nominated to the committee by each Member State be a representative from a patients' help group or other directly relevant NGO.
In essence, therefore, your rapporteur is inviting the House to reiterate the position expressed at first reading, by approving all the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which have been accepted by all the political groups.
For this reason, on the basis of Mr Viceconte's excellent report and amendments, the European Parliament has merely sought to strengthen the Commission's proposal in a few respects: in particular concerning centralised data collection, training and information for health workers and patients' families, the funding of the programme, as well as the involvement of patients' families, their associations and, more generally, NGOs in various countries which are funding research into different rare diseases, and all bodies likely to follow through this action programme.
The rarity of these diseases does not admit of a proper, thorough approach in any one of our Member States.
It really can be said that the serious problem of rare diseases can only be tackled on a European scale, so as to create the necessary critical mass.
The European social model offers opportunities which are not offered by the system in the United States, but our internal divisions also sap our cultural and economic energies.
And for our part, we believe that the Commission is aware that with a proposal of this type, which is aimed at tackling a very scattered problem - and this is precisely the reason why it does not have any sponsors -, we need coordination at all levels, and all aspects will certainly need to be examined in depth here.
We are always aware that money is scarce, but if a programme is set up to address these rare diseases and does not receive sufficient funding, it will not be effective.
Secondly, a central database is very important.
We always have disagreements in this Parliament with the Commission over comitology.
Madam President, the action programme on rare diseases which we are debating supplements a series of efforts to improve public health in the European Union.
The programme's objectives are, firstly, to improve the data, information and knowledge concerning rare diseases; secondly, to reinforce the teams that provide assistance; and, thirdly, to create a rapid-reaction group for the contingency where several cases of rare diseases occur all together, as happened for example in the case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or new-variant CJD.
Rare diseases form a sensitive category because each of them affects just a certain number of people and, because of the impacts and social consequences to which they give rise, there is a need to support action to cooperate with the sufferers and their families and with organisations that are active in the context of those diseases.
An essential factor for the coordination of these efforts is to create a network for the monitoring and control of rare diseases, which will provide data and information to the public but must also include the potential to provide immediate assistance.
To achieve the programme's objectives, we consider that the budget for the period from 1999 to 2003 should be set at ECU 14 million, and not ECU 6.5 million as proposed by the Council.
To conclude, Madam President, I should like to ask Parliament to vote for this programme, as formulated by the Committee on the Environment.
The added value of the European Union's action is particularly obvious in this area.
The low prevalence of these diseases and the limited means for scientific research into them make it less likely that swift progress will be made in their diagnosis, treatment and cure.
Since then the Council has adopted a common position on the programme which reflects fully only some of the amendments from the first reading, but the Commission has entered a reserve on the common position with specific reference to the Council's treatment of these amendments from the first reading.
As regards the 20 amendments under consideration today, the Commission can accept 11 either fully - that is Nos 3, 12 and 16 - or, partially - Nos 1, 6, 7, 9, 11, 15, 17 and 19.
I know that the budget is an issue that Parliament feels very strongly about.
The Commission agrees with Parliament as regards the preference for an advisory committee, rather than a mixed advisory management committee as favoured by the Council.
However, the Commission cannot accept that one of the two representatives from each Member State must be drawn from voluntary organisations.
I would end by saying that I hope that Parliament will give a favourable vote on the programme.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, we all welcome Commissioner Monti into the Chamber to reply to this debate.
When the historians look back on the fourth elected Parliament and its relations with the Commission between 1994 and 1999, I think there will be a significant chapter on consumer protection.
It will cover the hideous tragedy of the BSE crisis, which brought Parliament to the brink of a vote of no-confidence in the Commission on issues of public health and safety.
It will cover President Santer's response in January 1996 to that crisis and the consequent undertakings written into the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It will see the establishment of a firm legal base as a framework for consumer protection, and as a necessary entrenchment in an area where, as we all know, the Community will benefit from common action for all its citizens.
I say to Commissioner Monti that a healthy countervailing power is a thing that, more than anything else, will make the single market not only efficient but also an informed and healthy market and community.
It is for her an appropriate introduction to her new life in the Commission.
They need to be accepted by Parliament and the Council by the end of this calendar year.
As my report states, we are dealing here with only one-quarter of one percent of Community spending and yet this, unlike a good deal of other Community spending, directly benefits all of the 375 million citizens of our Union.
The coming of the euro adds to this need for greater consumer awareness.
BSE has already loaded a very heavy burden on DG XXIV and on the Commission as a whole in terms of the expanded inspectorate and the information campaigns that it has had to launch.
This amount would be ECU 130 million over five years, as opposed to ECU 114 million from 1999 onwards set out in the original proposals.
I particularly commend to the House Amendment No 16 from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which added the provision that access to justice for the citizens of Europe is a necessary provision, and one which was not taken sufficiently into account in the original proposals which came to us from the Commission.
I hope the Council can also accept the strongly-held view of Parliament that a starting budget of ECU 24 million in 1999, rising in the proportions set out in Agenda 2000, would produce a financial envelope for the legal base of between ECU 120 million and ECU 130 million.
If they were moved to it there would be a saving to the 'consumer' appropriation of over ECU 7 million over the five-year period.
The British presidency acted swiftly to untangle the knots caused by the European Court of Justice ruling which it sought, together with other Member States.
His work has been outstanding and this report, which I fully support, bears this out.
A legal base is necessary and it is positive that the Commission should have proposed it.
Amendments Nos 16 and 33 are essential.
When I held that particular responsibility in Portugal, I found that rapid and efficient access to justice was one of the key elements in protecting the consumer.
Amendments Nos 4, 6 and 22 seek to move towards a solution to this problem.
I support Amendments Nos 24 and 26.
Fourth, the effective implementation of European legislation and its correct application by the Member States.
Lastly, the recognition of the vital role of non-governmental organisations and the clarification of rules under which they are given assistance or contracts are concluded with them (Amendments Nos 17 to 20).
I consider that the budgetary framework which the Commission presents for executing such an ambitious project is not adequate and, therefore, in this regard, in the context of Agenda 2000 and in the preparation of policies up to 2006, the Commission must review the budget if it wishes to have a consumer policy that is supported by 320 million persons who will thereby also be supporting the construction of Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is vital to pursue a proper policy of consumer protection.
The actions which are possible with this financial support range across four sectors: consumer health and safety, the protection of consumers' economic interests in respect of goods and services, consumer education and information, and the promotion and representation of consumers' interests.
We often forget that the five-year period 1999-2003 will be a particularly important and difficult one for consumers, who find themselves facing challenges such as the advent of the single currency, continued growth of the information society, accession of the applicant states to the EU, and information on food safety and quality.
Madam President, greater consumer protection for ordinary citizens is imperative.
Give the billions of pounds spent by consumers every year on a vast array of products and services, the ECU 130m being sought in this report is a very small amount in relative terms.
International cooperation between the various consumer interest groups is also important given the global market that now operates across virtually all sectors.
May I remind you that in the Federal Republic very considerable resources are spent on an advertising campaign to promote meat as a vital energy source.
So the aim must be genuinely to strengthen the consumer organisations, which also means that key consumer protection organisations must receive funding from that budget line.
I feel that the Commission document is more in tune with the limited opportunities open to consumer policy at European level.
The proposal to extend consumer activities to all areas of policy seems completely unrealistic.
The Commission's decision to go for transport and public health seems a sensible one, in that it is based on experience from the last few years and also fits in with the next action programme.
This brings me to my final point.
I am, however, opposed in principle to increasing the budgetary provision in the proposal from ECU 114 million over five years to ECU 130 million, which the rapporteur is proposing.
In addition, I think that measures of a different kind are as effective in this area as central increases in budget appropriations.
Madam President, we must strike a blow for consumers, not because some elsewhere might think that the European Parliament lacks faith in itself, but because the consumers' interests need to be brought into focus.
I am surprised that the Commission then only gives public health, research and transport as examples and does not mention the integration of consumer concerns into areas such as agricultural policy, competition, financial services and, last but certainly not least, the EU's food policy.
Apart from that I think it extremely regrettable that the Commission proposal limits support to 50 %.
Also consumers' organisations in the smaller countries, including the Consumers' Advisory Council in Denmark, have problems with this form of financing.
The EU should pursue consumer policy in such a way that it is actually feasible, for smaller consumers' organisations too, to take part in projects.
And it must also be remembered that it is often the EU, rather than the consumers' organisations themselves, that wants to launch various campaigns, and that in this context the EU needs reliable consumers' organisations, indeed organisations like the Danish Consumers' Advisory Council, to take charge of these campaigns.
The needs of this single market, encompassing 370 million citizens in their capacity as consumers, must increasingly be taken into account by all the Community institutions; we must keep up with the winds of change sweeping through the consumerist world.
The major innovation in this whole scenario is the advent of the euro.
Madam President, over the past decade the Union has considerably stepped up its consumer policy, especially since the entry into force of the Treaty on European Union.
Further developments in respect of consumer policy and health protection are provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
This proposal outlines the legal framework for activities eligible for Community funding under the policy relating to consumers and health protection.
During this period there has been no basic legal act geared to financing such action, nor a formal description of activities eligible for funding, with the sole exception of the references contained in Article 129a, introduced into the EC Treaty in 1992.
In the light of continuing European integration, it clearly becomes necessary to assure the citizens of the Union, in their capacity as consumers, that their rights and interests will be adequately protected in the new enlarged single market - and that market is taken a stage further with the single currency.
However Amendments Nos 12 and 16, on the adaptation of this decision to the Amsterdam Treaty after its entry into force - amendments with which, I must say, I broadly sympathise - are too general and sweeping in the Commission's opinion; therefore they cannot be accepted in their present form.
I can nevertheless undertake here and now to present to the Commission, as soon as the Treaty enters into force, a proposal taking account of the implications of the Amsterdam Treaty for consumer policy.
As regards Amendment No 13, on the financial allocation, the Commission will provide Parliament and the Council with all necessary technical assistance to enable them to reach an early agreement on this matter.
We are currently at the stage of the first reading, and the Council is to announce its position on this proposal on 3 November.
As I have already said, Parliament and the Council have undertaken to speed up the decision-making procedure for the adoption of the proposals which constitute the legal base providing for Community funding.
The Commission will do all it can to enable Parliament and the Council to reach their decision at second reading by the end of this year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, with this recommendation for second reading of the directive on the legal protection of encrypted services which we are considering today, we are taking the penultimate step so that, with the Council's acceptance of our two amendments, it will at last become possible for this directive to be approved in the near future.
The illicit decoders produced by the pirate industry are estimated to account for perhaps as many as 20 % of all decoders.
The loss of income for encrypted services exceeds ECU 200 million per year and the effect on the European film industry is truly appalling, since 34 % of its income comes from that source.
In any event, it is enough to mention that, in just four months, there have been on the celebrated Internet over a million advertisements for illicit pirate devices, just to give us a picture of the extent of illicit activities in this sector.
These are activities which militate against the proper operation of our internal market, impeding the further development of industries specialising in new technologies and the development of new means of communication to facilitate trade.
Between the Commission's Green Paper and the second reading of the draft directive, which Parliament called for following my first report in May 1992, only two years have gone by, a period which can certainly be regarded as brief in the context of Community procedures.
My second report on the draft directive, which was approved by a very large majority on 30 April 1998 by the House, included 24 amendments.
In its amended proposal, the Commission accepted 18 of these in whole or in part, and the Council has essentially followed suit.
A new Article 1 clarifies the directive's scope.
However, the Commission and the Council insisted on limiting themselves to that last point alone.
Following that undertaking, which brings the prospect of more extensive protection in the future, your rapporteur felt that there was no need to resubmit the amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading.
With Amendment No 2 to Article 7, I thought it preferable to keep the door open for a later stage and generally to make things easier for the Council, always provided that just the two amendments which go together with the recommendation for second reading are accepted, so that the final draft directive can be approved quickly.
Madam President, our hope is that even though the Council and the Commission have restricted its scope, the directive will help to deal more effectively with decoder piracy.
And, apart from Amendment No 2, which is aimed at quickly rectifying any inadequacies, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also tabled Amendment No 1 that refers to the general need for each state to protect services that are remunerated.
I think that Parliament will be able to approve the text tomorrow with the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, and a step forward will therefore be taken.
I believe that Community law will soon be developed by Member States and that this matter will thus be dealt with without many difficulties.
I think that by accepting the sensible and well-reasoned amendments that were tabled, this directive has satisfactorily concluded a very complicated issue in a very short space of time.
Tomorrow we shall vote in favour of the Commission and the Council's approach and, in this case, we will support the argument that the legal instrument would lose some of its effectiveness since its precepts would have to be defined in very general terms in order to respond to very different situations.
The rapporteur referred to the clearer definition of Article 1 but, in terms of clarity, it is worth studying the strengthened definitions in Article 2.
This addition must not, in any case, modify the concept of civil responsibility that in all our legal systems is of an objective nature, in other words, independent of any form of subjectivity.
I have already taken up this question with Commissioner Monti.
Therefore the Commission welcomes Parliament's second amendment, designed to create a legal base to allow for periodical adaptations of the directive and in particular of the definitions under Article 2, in the light of technical and economic developments.
The first amendment introduces a new recital which helps to clarify the aims of the directive; it reflects the content of Amendment No 10 tabled at first reading, which was incorporated into the Commission's modified proposal but rejected by the Council.
Once again, Madam President, I thank Mr Anastassopoulos and all those who have cooperated in what we really can describe as a further example of rapid and successful interaction between our two institutions.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Monti, first let me thank all those colleagues who helped me to draft this report.
Applicants were given this choice in the first two horizontal directives on the recognition of diplomas.
The German version of the draft amendment consists of no less than 36 lines, and even the first sentence is an endless 82 words long.
The second achieves a proud count of 50 and the third a mere 30.
So much for the ugly facade of the directive on recognition, which is designed to sweep away 35 old rulings in order to create greater clarity and legal certainty.
Remember, it is only since Maastricht that civil rights have become a part of the Treaties on which our European Union is based.
The present directive creates an area of genuine freedom of movement that is recoverable by law.
The freedom of establishment guaranteed by the directive we will vote on tomorrow will ensure the necessary labour mobility.
I believe that looked at from that perspective we can see the true importance of the recognition directive.
What we are about to approve at second reading is an across-the-board system of recognition, according to the recognition mechanism referred to by the Court of Justice in the Glassopoulo ruling.
The Commission and the Council have accepted the amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading.
The host Member State must complete this procedure within eight months of receiving the application.
If there are differences between the training provided in the Member State of origin and in the host Member State, the migrant worker must prove that he has acquired the additional knowledge through an updating course or an aptitude test.
The only outstanding point at issue between Parliament and the Council of Ministers concerns the responsibility for choosing between a course and an aptitude test.
Another important aspect is the procedure for updating Annex A of the directive.
I believe that the decision to abide by the codecision procedure already laid down for the body of the directive is correct, because aspects of a legal nature which would merit a legislative procedure can often sneak into annexes.
The result would thus match the existing practice in the horizontal directives.
The whole area of reciprocal recognition of examinations and qualifications is a vital one in the practical development of European cooperation.
The issue concerns not only the movement of skilled and professional people, but also the participation of students and young people in educational and exchange programmes and the wish for them to acquire experience alongside their studies, as well as developing a facility for European cooperation.
This directive is important because it not only simplifies Community law by merging 35 directives into a single text, but also extends recognition to qualifications for certain occupations which are not yet covered under the general system.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, the Court of First Instance was created in 1988 and first heard cases in 1989.
The reality is that the Court of First Instance only had to deal with 55 cases in 1989 and in 1997 it had 624.
This item was very controversial and the vote ended in a dead heat the first time we voted on it, eight Members voting in favour, eight against and four abstaining.
In the end the committee voted in favour of this proposal because we had no other concrete proposals in front of us to improve the speed at which the Court of First Instance handles cases.
Although it would not save us much time as the Court claimed, we felt that having a single judge would save some time.
The committee has suggested that in the future we should be looking at the possibility of increasing the number of judges in the Court of First Instance, improving the staff structures in the Court, moving towards the use of specialised Chambers to speed up cases and even reconsidering at a future IGC the powers of the Court of First Instance.
So, although in the end we have decided to come out in favour of this proposal, it is with some reservations and it is with a view that this will not be the long-term solution to the Court of First Instance's problems.
Let us now turn to one of the arguments outlined by the rapporteur.
The Group of the European People's Party welcomes, shares and encourages the concern over budgetary efficiency that this measure has generated since, according to the best estimates, the total number of cases handled will increase by 10 %, without any increase in costs.
A constant concern of this Parliament is to get the maximum return from every Community ecu that is spent, and in this respect we are pleased with the proposal.
And as the rapporteur has already said: late justice is not justice at all.
Lastly, a vote in favour of the proposal tomorrow will prove that the House has confidence in the ability and equanimity of the Court with a single judge.
The vast majority of the Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
According to the judges already mentioned, 150 appeals at the end of the year from Alicante would lead to a serious crisis.
And, Madam President, if justice comes from the people, then the people should perceive it as such.
And lastly, would it not be understandable, predictable even, that, in the face of collapse and the lack of solutions, the Court and the Council - since, as we have already said, neither Parliament nor the Commission would be anything more than powerless witnesses - might increase the number of cases in which a single judge could be used?
This would undoubtedly constitute a saving but only in the very short term and it would not take into account the social cost - in addition to the economic cost - that it would inevitably also entail.
And finally Madam President, to paraphrase Churchill, justice is expensive, but if the European Union is to fight for one thing, it should in fact fight to build a Europe of law.
We also have a situation in which the legal services of all three institutions find, for somewhat different reasons, that the proposal is not desirable.
I therefore hope, Commissioner, like David Martin, that you will give serious attention to this question of the functioning of the courts in the forthcoming IGC, preferably as soon as possible in Vienna, but at least when the mini-IGC begins.
I will merely say in conclusion that a large section of the Liberal Group will vote against the proposal.
Madam President, Commissioner, even as one who is well aware of the reservations about introducing single judge decisions by the Court of First Instance put forward during the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and has now heard them repeated, let me on behalf of my group plead for adoption of the Martin report, now that the Committee on Institutional Affairs has decided to do so too.
Referral of a case to a judge-rapporteur, as a single judge, would moreover be optional and confined to situations determined in the Rules of Procedure, with the decision taken in every case by the chamber comprising three judges.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Commission expressed its view on the issue of the single judge in the opinion forwarded to you last June.
In that case, why lay down as of now the composition of the judiciary body for litigation the actual scale of which no one yet knows, especially as - I would stress - the huge increase anticipated in 1997 has so far failed to materialise, meaning that its complexity cannot yet be assessed?
They relate to litigation over trade marks and plant varieties which, for the reasons already given, cannot as of now be regarded as suitable for consideration by a single judge.
In the Commission's view, the proposed system should under no circumstances be approved in its present form.
In any event, and irrespective of any changes which might be made to the proposal from the ECJ and CFI, the Commission believes that it is premature to adopt, without further reflection, the principle of the single judge as a normal operating method of the Court of First Instance in the future.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
