Therefore, I believe that it would be worth referring the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, rather than simply dismissing this objection which I believe to be fundamental.
Thank you, Mrs Schmidbauer.
The Minutes were approved Statement by the President In the vote held yesterday morning on the proposal for a decision on the number, powers and responsibilities of parliamentary committees, Parliament adopted two contradictory amendments relating to the responsibility for the legal protection of consumers, namely Amendment No 31 by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Amendment No 60 by the Group of the European People's Party.
Yesterday I received a motion of censure on the Commission, which resigned collectively on 16 March 1999.
In this case, a tenth of the Members of Parliament are involved, that is, 66 Members from all the political groups: 5 from the PSE Group, 8 from the PPE Group, 4 from the ELDR Group, 6 from the UPE Group, 6 from the GUE/NGL Group, 9 from the Green Group, 3 from the ARE Group, 15 from the I-EDN Group, and 10 Non-attached Members.
This matter had been referred to the Legal Service on 6 April.
This is why I feel that the decision you are taking, Mr President, is extremely serious in light of the present situation - although that is not so serious - and in terms of its implications for the future of this House and the future of democracy in Europe.
Thank you, Mr Kerr.
The matter is therefore settled.
The legal protection of consumers' rights should remain the responsibility of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and consumers' rights should remain the responsibility of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as Mr Collins has just explained.
Then our amendment was adopted making the Committee on Consumer Protection responsible for the legal protection of consumers.
Thank you, Mrs Theato.
It is very important that Parliament is clear about the different responsibilities of committees.
This confusion has arisen because our services have to work to a very short timetable, political needs often taking precedence over proper preparation for the part-session, and this leads to difficult working conditions.
However, I must admit that I do not fully understand what we have been discussing for some time now, because I see that Amendment No 31 was adopted and Amendment No 60 was rejected.
Perhaps there is a mistake in the Minutes, although it says that Amendments Nos 60 and 61 were rejected and Amendment No 31 by the Socialist Group was adopted.
There is therefore no contradiction because Amendment No 31 was adopted and Amendment No 60 was rejected.
I will however check, because if Amendment No 60 was rejected, there should be no confusion.
The amended proposal now includes some of the amendments by the Committee on Women's Rights that appeared in the initial report.
It is urgent, in particular, because violence affects one in five women across Europe and 50 % of women that are murdered are killed by their husband or partner.
I had personally informed the Belgian representative in that Commission of the European programme, Daphne, and of the work carried out by our Committee on Women's Rights.
The European Parliament must continue its work on the Daphne programme and, in fact, it introduced a specific line of credit for the programme's launch.
More generally, I should like to say that all the measures proposed in this Community action programme can and must be supported in order to combat this genuine scourge of violence in all its forms.
The European programme draws its inspiration from the 'Zero Tolerance' campaign that Edinburgh Council ran in my constituency in the mid-1990s.
The 1997 Daphne programme was heavily oversubscribed with less than 10 % of applications receiving funding.
There are 75 million people over the age of 60 in the European Union.
Over 42 % of voters in the EU are over 50 years of age.
So, if we have 75 million people over the age of 60 and 42 % of the voters are over 50 years of age, obviously the issues of senior citizens and the elderly are going to be important in campaigning.
Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty outlaws discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, gender, disability, sexual orientation, etc.
There will probably be some Members, like myself, who are in a similar position after 13 June.
The percentage for women is the same: 51 % of women who are seeking work are in the 50-64 age group.
Employment is a very serious issue for this age group.
The elderly are not a homogeneous group.
That represents more than 20 % of the population, and this is tending to rise because of the steady increase in life expectancy.
In our report we have presented a long list of instruments through which our aims for senior citizens can be achieved.
Applause Mr President, let me begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for this excellent and very comprehensive report.
It challenges us in Parliament, along with the Commission and the Council, to develop a far-sighted policy for the over-60s in the European Union, of whom there are already 75 million.
Now that we have the Treaty of Amsterdam and its Article 13 on the suppression of discrimination, including age discrimination, we have a legal basis for common European action.
The first relates to the splitting of pension rights acquired during married life in favour of women who have given up their careers to look after their families and who, in the event of divorce after 20 or more years of marriage, are particularly liable to fall below the poverty line.
Here too, we called for an improvement of the 1986 directive on the equal treatment of self-employed persons and their assisting spouses.
Laughter and applause Thank you, Mrs Lulling.
After the sitting, when I see you in the corridor, I will have to ask you to tell me how much wine you drink each day, what kind of wine you drink, and in particular how much it costs, including tax.
Thank you, Mr Lindqvist.
In all European countries those over the age of 45 have clearly received poorer levels of training than those below that age.
The rapporteurs refer three times in their report to discrimination against older women.
Seventy-five million people over the age of 60 do not just want a sense of belonging to society, they also particularly want realistic legislation within the EU single market.
Seventy-five million people alive today are 60 years old or more, and that is one fifth of the total population.
In the year 2000, over 20 million people will be in their eighties.
They address economic and social issues in their report and, in particular, the problem of access to the labour market.
I believe that this particular issue could remain in the realms of wishful thinking: present growth rates will continue and the already high level of unemployment - which affects the younger generations in particular - will persist in the future.
In Switzerland, in the Swiss Parliament for example, there are many pensioners who bring the benefits of a lifetime of experience to their work.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a child born today will have an average life expectancy of 100 years or more.
A child born today is likely to reach 100 or more.
There will undoubtedly be people who are weary of their work or who have performed demanding and strenuous work over the years and want to retire, but surely the law cannot say to a person 'Thou shalt not work' merely because he or she has reached the age of 60, 65 and sometimes only 55.
I see that as a violation of human rights, and Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam will be a good basis for the discussion of this issue.
In October Parliament organised a conference that was attended by more than a hundred representatives from senior citizens' organisations in all the Member States.
The report also proposes that the Commission should be called upon to submit proposals in connection with the new provisions in the Treaty of Amsterdam on combating discrimination and social marginalisation.
The report also calls for improved health protection for older people, both in a general sense and with regard to Alzheimer's disease.
These are obviously important issues, and I am certain that the new Commission will take account of this report when drafting proposals in these areas.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development intends to refer to the Commission the matter of the European Union's deficit in vegetable proteins added to animal feedingstuffs and what is at stake strategically for biotechnologies in the European Union as a result of this situation.
The situation has deteriorated with the Blair House agreement, which sets a quota for the production of oleaginous protein crops in Europe, and it could become even worse during the 2000-2006 period.
On the one hand, the provisions of Agenda 2000 will probably lead farmers to reduce their production of oleaginous protein crops in favour of cereals unless, of course, wise steps are taken to promote crops in the non-food agricultural production sector.
For example, the cover rate of the US market has increased from 0 % to about 165 %, whereas the cover rate of the European lysine market decreased from 84 % in 1991 to 54 % in 1997, and is predicted to fall to around 38 % in 2002 if present trends continue.
The Community agricultural policy reform, begun in 1992, has led to a substantial annual increase in the consumption of grain in cattle fodder of around 20 million tonnes and a significant reduction in the importation of cattle fodder and, in particular, vegetable proteins.
In Agenda 2000 the Commission proposed to extend the 1992 reform for the specific purpose of boosting Europe's agricultural competitiveness both in the single market and in external markets.
The 15 % drop in the price of grain and the additional direct aid for protein crops should do much to achieve this aim.
The Commission has always been keen to ensure that the starch and starch-processing industries in Europe, and especially the biotechnology sector that uses starch and its derivatives as raw materials, remain competitive.
These measures should guarantee that industries that use starch, and the biotechnology sector in particular, will remain competitive in the global markets.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
But since we are part of a world market, we also have an interest in ensuring that, at the WTO negotiations which are due to begin in Seattle on 30 November, barriers to free trade are properly removed and that the European Union obtains the same sort of level playing field on which to operate in this market as it does in the other major markets.
Or will the sector simply have to learn to live with a price difference between cereals on the world market and in the EU because the EU currently has a shortage?
In any event, the EU's starch consumers are calling for an incentive to be given to secure the use of EU starch in future.
I also wanted to ask something about the situation after Berlin.
The origins of this delicate situation lie in the significant differences between the European Union and the world market in terms of the conditions of supply of agricultural raw materials.
Admittedly, compensation in the form of a production refund was introduced in 1986 - as Commissioner Liikanen mentioned earlier - in order to remedy the situation.
This situation raises the burning issue of European industry's durability.
But most importantly, as a recent study by the Directorate-General for Research revealed, we only produce 30 % of the protein-rich products required to produce feedingstuffs, mainly for pigs and poultry.
First of all there is the question of the competitiveness of the European starch industry, and then there are the Berlin decisions on oilseeds and protein plants, which as we now know are entirely inadequate and completely incapable of overcoming the prevailing deficit in these markets and therefore of little use to us in their present form.
The present refund rate - effective since the Management Committee's decision yesterday - is ECU 60 per tonne, that is, approximately 30 % of the value of the raw material.
Finally, many general questions have been raised in connection with the common agricultural policy, as well as in connection with the WTO negotiations.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vaporetto is the only form of transport in Venice and it creates serious problems for the environment.
Madam President, at the end of January, the Italian authorities submitted to the Commission a series of observations containing a formal position on the initiation of a procedure, under the reference C 81/97, following a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 18 February 1998.
In December last year, the Italian authorities asked in a letter from the Italian Permanent Representative that the deadline stipulated for their reply should be extended to 15 January 1999.
The Vuole Vivere group, made up of businesses in Venice and Chioggia, submitted its observations, which were communicated to the Italian Government.
As for Venice's inclusion in Objective 2, it might be pointed out that a Commission proposal on the implementation of the new Structural Fund Objective 2 over the period 2000-2006 provides for shared responsibility between the Commission and the Member States in determining which areas qualify for aid.
The problem of high water - acqua alta - in Venice calls for solutions that take account of the special features of the lagoon ecosystem.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
Venice is dying, it is said, not so much because it is sinking into the water - fortunately a very slow phenomenon - but because the population is declining, a very rapid phenomenon.
The rulers of Venice in former times succeeded in creating a virtually unique model of development.
Thirdly, in agreement with the Italian Government, a derogation should be allowed under Article 92 of the Treaty, referring to state aid, so as to grant tax concessions and incentives to all businesses which start up - or plan to do so in the future - and to keep alive initiatives liable to guarantee employment, but above all to safeguard the life and soul of Venice.
Thank you, Mr Santini.
The debate is closed.
