Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Friday, 30 September 1996.
On 9 September, I tabled a question under Rule 42, which means that I should have received a reply within three weeks, or six if it was a difficult problem.
But another simple reason, Mr Posselt, is that an explanatory statement serves to justify a report.
There was near-unanimity in favour of the report in the Committee on External Economic Relations: it was approved by 18 votes to 1, with all the Italian members present voting in favour.
That is how we proceed, and this happens automatically when there is opposition from 29 Members.
Cinema and television production The next item is the report (A4-0304/96) by Mrs Guinebertière, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the proposal for a Council Decision (COM(95)0546 - C4-0070/96-95/0281(CNS)) establishing a European Guarantee Fund to promote cinema and television production.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I am presenting to you today on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media was adopted unanimously, apart from one abstention, and yet this report has made the kind of stop-start progress which is unfortunately all too familiar to us here in Parliament.
Its subject is the establishment of a European Guarantee Fund to promote cinema and television production.
This proposal forms part of the overall Council and Commission policy in favour of the audiovisual industry, based essentially on three instruments.
Thank you, Mr President.
It called in particular for consultation of the Ecofin Council, and this took place on 11 March 1996.
Nor can it necessarily be said that the banks will seek to participate directly in the Fund's capital in the first instance, since the present proposal says nothing about how the banks should be involved in managing their own capital within the EIF.
The report confirms also, very importantly, the positive interest from the financial sector.
It is important that the fund plays a role as an incentive to less film-friendly banking countries to participate in film financing, to take a risk, to take a gamble, to take a toss at producing something so that they might ultimately not just be very proud of their own involvement but also it might actually make some money for them as well.
The role of the European Investment Bank in the structuring and operation of the guarantee fund, as currently proposed, is central.
I would like to pick out some of the most important points for setting up a specific framework for this fund; bringing it into the scope of the European Investment Bank, which has a cultural side, in order to create attractive financial conditions for all the partners involved and, an aspect which I particularly welcome, the accent on including small production countries and small projects in the programme.
The Guinebertière report clarifies and reinforces the Commission proposal, which the Committee on Culture unanimously regarded as a good basis.
To those Member States which, although aware of the need for the fund, are hesitating to give it the goahead, on behalf of the Liberal Group I should like to point out three things: all professional sectors of the audiovisual industry are unanimous in calling for it to be set up; -the EIF technical opinion, sought by the Commission, has confirmed that it is financially viable; -tens of millions of ECU allocated to the MEDIA II Programme would be wasted unless the go-ahead is given, since without the knock-on effect of the Guarantee Fund only marginal effects will be produced.I shall end with an appeal for a pooling of efforts and ideas so that the fund can be created in 1997 for a trial period, with all of the monitoring and control guarantees proposed in the report.
The initial proposal, in 1994, amounted to 1 % of the Structural Funds, or ECU 1.5 billion over five years.
Now the Commission is proposing ECU 90 million, exactly the sum siphoned off from MEDIA II.
In the run-up to the Cultural Affairs Council on 16 December, this report has the great merit of reaffirming the cultural, industrial and economic potential and interest of the cinema and the audiovisual sector.
One can perhaps accept that the European Union cannot afford to be idealistic, but one cannot accept that it has a right to hold its industries and citizens in contempt; it should not be allowed to do so.
The Guarantee Fund is one important element.
This is to some extent the question which should be answered by the establishment of this European Guarantee Fund to promote cinema and television production.
Under this mechanism, based on similar experiments in France and Spain, it should be possible, in the long term, to cover 50 % of the risks incurred by the projects selected.
We know how reluctant banks are to invest in what is seen as a high-risk sector: how then can they be expected to join in establishing a Fund with a turnover of less than ECU 110 million?
We are asking these questions because we are not happy about them.
I note that even the executive vicepresident of Polygram - one of Europe's leading film-makers - supported this proposal when he suggested 2 % of net profits from successful films should pass back into the fund.
With these criteria, I consider the Community can and should offer practical and positive support to this important European industry.
In very much the same vein, we have a proposal today for a European Guarantee Fund to promote cinema and television production in Europe.
The proposal aims to develop this sector by reducing the risk for investors and encouraging them to back a greater number of European productions in the future.
But at the same time, it seems to be planning a reduction in the budget for MEDIA II.
Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the report, and I support the establishment of this Guarantee Fund because audiovisual production must be assisted.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that this project combines flexibility and decentralisation with a cultural policy and economic efficiency, showing that Europe can create transparent instruments that are close to its people.
This means that the European Parliament and the Commission have to join forces in order to try and convince the Council to make progress on this score.
I will conclude by telling you that the Commission can accept 21 of the 33 amendments tabled, in full, in spirit or in part.
We accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 8, 10, 12 and 14.
We accept in spirit Amendments Nos 5, 6, 9, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23 and 36.
We accept in part Amendments Nos 11, 28, 30 and 35.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 7, 17, 20, 21, 24-27, 29, 31, 32 or 33.
The amendments which we cannot accept refer to the subject of flexible machinery or else certain problems which are simply ones of wording or presentation.
The debate is closed.
As for the budget, this has been cut from 34 million ECU over 5 years to 7 million ECU over 2 years, while a budget of 2.5 million ECU was used for a pilot scheme for the year 1996.
Greater priority is also given to translation, with the explanation that 50 % of the programme's budget is intended for that.
Regarding duration, it is some consolation that the adoption of a new programme is provided for, but we cannot make do with such a small budget if we wish to allow the ARIANE programme to develop, and that is why an increase of 3.5 MECU has been asked for.
I therefore hope the Council will take note of the improvements we have proposed and that we will very soon be able to go ahead with this ARIANE programme, for which we have waited so long.
The European Union, through this programme, is proving that it has no intention of creating a Euromonoculture.
Yet, we cannot but express our disappointment - as the rapporteur already has - at the dramatic cut of the programme's budget which, in parallel with cuts in the budgets for other cultural programmes, demonstrates a general tendency to downgrade policies of support for European culture.
The European Parliament is therefore right to table amendments to strengthen the ARIANE programme, and amendments tending to establish more flexible procedures by opting for a purely advisory committee.
I recall specifically the frameworks of the MEDIA II and INFO 2000 programmes.
The budget has been cut from 6.8 MECU per year to the current budget of 3.5 MECU p.a.
There is no political will among the Member States to give people real access to the diverse cultural heritage that binds us together within the Community and beyond, and represents an important contribution to the cultural heritage of humanity.
Originally it was to have a budget of ECU 34 million and to run for five years.
As regards the comitology, the proposal for a joint advisory and management committee is particularly unacceptable in the area of culture.
Just as Ariadne's thread helped Theseus to find his way out of the labyrinth, I hope that the new Ariane support programme for contemporary literature - while it may not resolve all our problems - will, with the help of writers and translators, give us a better sense of where we are going in Europe.
DG IV is shortly to take a decision on the fixed book price in the GermanAustrian region.
I believe that any money spent in this field is an investment, not just a cultural but a social investment.
Those people who know nothing of other languages, those who know nothing of other countries and of other cultures, those people who live, sometimes quite happily, in ignorance, are very often those who are most susceptible to misinformation.
You should know, therefore, that this Commission will always be on your side in the attempt to try and safeguard anything which is very much ours, not only for those of us who belong to those regions and peoples who speak a minority language but also, I think, for any other European, since the safeguard of these minority languages can only enrich the whole of Europe's cultural heritage.
I must tell you, against my will, that the Commission - which fully appreciates all of the efforts made by the European Parliament - is unable to accept any amendments referring to a budget increase from 7 to 10.5 MECU.
However, I would like to tell you that the Commission is dutybound to respect the budgetary programme provided for in the revised financing file, in other words, 2.5 MECU in 1996, 3 MECU in 1997, 4 MECU in 1998, 5 in 1999 and 9 MECU in the year 2000.
Nor do we think we can accept the change to the title - Amendment No 1, bearing in mind the current share-out of resources, i.e. 50 % for translation and the remaining 50 % for other activities fostering books and reading.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Committee on Culture is proposing a few but very important amendments to the text of the Council's common position on the action programme in the field of cultural heritage.
With these amendments we intend to increase the budget for this new programme so that we can boost the activity developed in recent years in the field of cultural heritage.
The text of the Council's common position reflects an ambitious and well-drafted programme but the budget proposed is only 30 MECU over four years, with a review after the second year, whereas in recent years we have been spending something like 10 MECU a year in the pilot phase of programmes.
The Committee on Culture proposes a budget of 86 MECU for the next four years: in my opinion, the Council is unaware of the role which culture has to play in today's Europe, the one being constructed, nor does it bear in mind the job-creating capacity of investment in the field of cultural heritage.
They are forgetting the duty that we have to preserve and transmit the cultural heritage which we have been given by previous generations and handing it on to future generations; they are also ignoring the capacity of cultural investment to create employment, since investment in cultural heritage can allow us to revive the old heritage-related trades, create jobs and help the tourist industry - not forgetting the economic development of many regions in the Community which are rich in cultural heritage but backward in terms of economic development.
The second concerns Parliament's well-justified refusal to accept the establishment of a programme management committee made up of representatives of the Member States' governments.
We really fail to understand why project selection under Raphael should be subject to diplomatic negotiation or, worse still, to a share-out amongst the 15 national governments.
First of all, the rapporteur has demonstrated great lucidity in producing a report which sets out and interprets the main problem.
Under that Article 128 and the Kaleidoscope Programme, two other programmes - Raphael and Ariane have now been set in motion but only after a rather picturesque fight in a climate of uncouth stinginess with masses of cuts, the outward signs of a grudging acceptance of the inevitable rather than the creation of a well thought out, inspiring and forward-looking project.
Mr President, Commissioner, a lot has already been said - I would even say that everything has been said - about the importance for the Union to have its first programme for the cultural heritage, the Raphael Programme.
I think that the Council will end up by recognising that it is impossible not to restore the initial budget of 86 million ecus as the Rapporteur proposes.
We in the European Parliament, through an amendment, have asked for 96 million ecus whereas the Commission proposal would result in a cut of no less than 37 million ecus for a four-year programme, which means that Mr Sanz's indignation is quite understandable.
Fostering tourism - as we said in the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture - not only means sharing our heritage and cultural and artistic knowledge, but also means creating new jobs in these cultural and artistic areas of interest.
And surely this principle is also 100 % applicable to our cultural heritage.
We venture to hope that the Council will hear reason and realize that project selection must be carried out by the Commission, and not on the basis of some kind of intergovernmental agreement, which moreover would contravene Article 128 of the Treaty.
We are also in favour of Amendment No 2, stressing the need to promote access to this programme for those in outlying regions.
As for the budget, which has been cut from ECU 67 million over five years to ECU 30 million over four, it no longer bears any relation to the real costs of such a project.
Regrettably, the Raphael programme is therefore in danger of remaining a purely marginal and ineffective instrument in a field which is so essential not only to our cultural, but also to our economic and social development.
We cannot work out ambitious cultural programmes which are very well-drafted and written clearly, interesting because of their ambitions and objectives, as is the case of the Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael Programmes, and not grant them the resources to match their ambition.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I assess the Raphael Programme and the Sanz Fernández report, I should point out that a future Europe must be built not only on economic foundations but also on socio-cultural and ecological bases.
Apart from the very complex powers of the European Union in political and economic areas, we must make sure that Europe never lags behind, despite the big obstacles and weighty opposition which some Member States and institutions are now putting in its way, and we must make sure that all of its obligations are fulfilled in the social, cultural and environmental areas.
Economic development can only take place on a par with social and cultural progress and wildlife conservation.
In the documents which we are now analysing we should point out that the Raphael Programme is aimed at supporting and complementing Member States' actions in the fields of cultural heritage of European importance, something which is both enormous and very rich, and which everyone knows about.
Therefore, I wish to assert that we are behind the rapporteur when he points out that the programme needs a bigger financial contribution of at least 86 million ecus.
The Raphael Programme is an important one and it is the kernel of Community activity on behalf of culture.
As far as the amendments tabled by the European Parliament are concerned I should like to tell you that the Commission has been able to accept seven of them: it accepts No 1, No 2 - which adds to the list of groups for whom access to the cultural heritage must be improved, and you should be well aware (because I have already had the occasion to tell the European Parliament's Committee on Culture of this on various occasions) what my criterion is concerning less-favoured persons, the role to be played by culture vis-à-vis exclusion and the part it can play to help people living in peripheral regions or the countryside.
As for Amendments Nos 3 and 4, we feel that they introduce changes to two points, concerning the committees, and here again we agree with the European Parliament.
We can accept Amendment No 6, which deletes that paragraph in the common position which refers to the clause revising the budget for the last two years of the programme; and Amendment No 7 about changes to the maximum limit for Community financial aid to projects in point 2 of action 1 - namely European heritage laboratories - and finally, Amendment No 8 which contains details about the special care to paid to access for less-favoured persons in the aim of action No 2.
As for the budget, the Commission wishes to be coherent in its stance which it reiterated in its communication to the Council and therefore it maintains its initial position: a budget of 67 million ecus for a five-year period.
We think that it is important that, at the Council meeting to be held on 16 December 1996, a compromise can be found between the two current positions and all I now have to do is thank you for your support for this programme and hope that the steps that we are taking now can be taken further in the future, and that the Council will not cut the budget, which is already extraordinarily low.
The debate is closed.
When I say 'its due place' , I mean quite simply the place conferred on it by the Council itself in its decision of 16 June 1975.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Fontaine for the sterling work she has done.
The directive that we are discussing here - on the free movement of doctors and the mutual recognition of their diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications - is a very important one in the eyes of the public.
It therefore represents an important step forward.
The rapporteur has actually somewhat diluted and adjusted the second amendment to take account of the fact that, as Commissioner Monti pointed out in the previous debate, the Standing Committee of European Doctors is an unofficial, non-institutional, private body which therefore cannot be referred to.
The same goes for Amendment No 3 which, without putting forward any solutions, indicates in a recital that some reflection is also necessary on degrees and diplomas obtained by Community nationals from foreign universities.
Thank you very much, Mrs Gredler.
Such training must comply with the minimum requirements set out in the directive and, in particular, the minimum length of specialist training courses laid down in Articles 26 and 27, for which the simplified legislative procedure is now being proposed.
The purpose of Amendments Nos 1 and 4 is to amend the comitology procedure adopted in the common position for changes to the lengths of training courses laid down in Articles 26 and 27.
As the rapporteur has said, in its original proposal the Commission had envisaged a management committee.
However, with a view to health protection and because of the considerable financial impact on Member States of such a change, the Council opted to amend the Commission's initial text and provide for a type IIIa regulatory committee, rejecting the text which is being put forward again today in the form of Amendments Nos 1 and 4.
This is also the reason why the Commission's services have been consulting the Member States since February 1996 on the recognition of qualifications obtained in third countries, in spite of the fact that similar consultations in 1992 proved inconclusive.
The concerns expressed in Amendments Nos 2 and 3 have thus already been addressed, and Parliament will naturally be informed of the outcome of this work and these consultations.
The debate is closed.
The Commission reaches the general conclusion that Community action is necessary in the area of utility models to ensure rapid, simple and cheap protection of technical inventions which have a certain degree of novelty and which call for the rapid publication of their rights.
The holder of a protection right may prevent the importation, by third parties, of products marketed without his authorization.
However, we must bear in mind that utility models must essentially be aimed at SMEs, for which costs must always be kept down.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, industrial property rights play an important role in the single market: they serve to promote innovative activity in the European Union, so that an idea can rapidly be transformed into goods and services available to our citizens.
And the vast majority of these comments are in favour of a Community initiative in this area.
The debate is closed.
