on Wednesday, 3 July.
I urge you to look at the deadline for amendments so that the proper full group meeting that is normally only held on a Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning can take place and so that the Members of this House have some say in how and where they meet.
Thank you, Mr Tomlinson.
I was there with other Members a fortnight ago, and we were able to see that the emergency aid of ECU 92 million cannot be put into effect because of the lack of a legal basis.
We would prefer to keep to the planned timetable, in other words to have the vote on the Committee on Budgets' report on Thursday and the debate on the report on the regulation in due course.
Mr President, with reference to the alarming situation in Bosnia, agreement was reached in January of this year at a tripartite meeting of Parliament, the Council and the Commission on guidelines for the budget concerned.
In other words, thanks to Parliament's decision in January to approve disbursement, EU aid is already a reality in the region and continues to flow in.
Thirdly, however, Mr President, we in the European Parliament have objections to the procedure proposed by the Council.
Now Parliament is being consulted on an issue on which the Council has already adopted a standpoint.
I do not wish to rule out the possibility that Parliament will request negotiations with the Council once it has given its opinion in July.
In any event, Mr President, we should today reject the proposal from the Council for a special urgent debate on this subject.
Thank you, Mr Cars.
I do not intend to outline the report by the European Monetary Institute, but simply to comment on three rather important points which it raises.
There is therefore every reason to believe that the Bank will indeed be able to get the single currency up and running in 1999.
Secondly, there is the analysis of the economic situation which we give in the report.
Thirdly, there is the process of convergence, which the report covers in some detail.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second Annual Report of the European Monetary Institute contains an adequate analysis of the progress made by the Union's economies in the process of economic and monetary convergence, as well as a detailed description of the preparatory work for the third stage of economic and monetary union, with particular emphasis being placed on the report on the changeover to the single currency which formed the basis of the European Council's decision of December 1995, the agreement on the interconnection in real time of gross settlement systems - the 'Target' system - and the coordination of the instruments of monetary policy.
Consequently, it is essential for economic operators to be provided with adequate guarantees that enable them to give a boost to the kind of economic activity in which investment plays a key role in both promoting the recovery and ensuring that the European economy is sufficiently competitive in the medium term.
In this context, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses the need to enhance the role and the capacities of the EMI, especially in view of the fact that 1996 is a decisive year for economic and monetary union, since according to Article 109f of the Maastricht Treaty, the EMI must specify by 31 December the regulatory, organizational and logistical framework necessary for the European System of Central Banks to perform its tasks in the final stage of EMU.
Finally, it is calling for the European Monetary Institute's activities to be extended to more operational fields, in view of the timetable and objectives entrusted to the EMI, which is a key player - and, we would wish, a more active one - in the process of preparing for economic and monetary union and the single currency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the honour of presenting to the House today concerns the monetary fluctuations which occurred during 1992 and 1993 - and indeed 1995 - and which, as we know, had a significant impact on the functioning of the European exchange-rate mechanism and the internal market itself, leading first and foremost to changes in competitiveness in favour of those currencies which suffered depreciations.
Secondly, it should be remembered that as a result of these monetary fluctuations or upheavals, two currencies left the European Monetary System in 1992.
The EMS was itself modified in 1993, with the broadening of the fluctuation bands.
The main concern of our report is not so much to produce a balance sheet of winners and losers as a result of these fluctuations, but to draw the lessons from the past which must be taken into account in the future, especially when it comes to defining the relationship between the euro and the currencies which temporarily remain outside EMU.
This situation contrasted with the stability of nominal exchange rates, which progressively diverged from real exchange rates, giving rise to the corrective action of the markets, which was also encouraged by the lack of flexibility of the EMS which existed at the time.
On the whole, the effects were mainly felt at sectoral level, with a reduction in the profit margins of undertakings in countries whose currencies appreciated.
In this context, the report recommends that an explicit call should be made for those currencies at present outside the European Monetary System, both those which left it in 1993 and those of the new Member States - which, with the exception of Austria, have not yet joined the EMS, to be integrated into it as soon as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the third stage of economic and monetary union will begin with the establishment of the European Central Bank on 1 January 1999.
But nor should any further conditions be laid down before the entry into force of monetary union.
The prerequisite for exchange-rate stability is that all the EU Member States should operate credible and sound financial, economic and monetary policies.
However, when the new exchange-rate system comes to be designed, with the euro as its anchor currency, account must be taken of the experience gained with the EMS.
We therefore support the proposal that the right of setting the adjustment mechanism in motion should be granted to the President of the European Central Bank.
In my personal view, this new exchange-rate system will still function even if the United Kingdom declines to participate.
Finally, I would just comment briefly on stability policy after the transition to monetary union.
We are therefore awaiting clear proposals from the Commission on how budgetary discipline can be maintained after the entry into force of monetary union.
Clearly, however, the objective must be that ultimately all the Member States of the European Union will also be members of the monetary union. 1999 will be the decisive date for the central banks.
However, just in parenthesis, I will make the point, following on what my colleague, Karl von Wogau, has just said, that the question of the United Kingdom's relationships with the European Monetary System and exchange rates is, of course, one for markets and not for governments.
My first suggestion, addressed to the Commission - and I promise the Commission that this will be my last criticism of it - is that it would be most helpful in future if the Commission could contrive to produce its annual economic report and its broad economic guidelines in sufficient time for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment because these two projects are the joint responsibility of those two committees.
It would be helpful in future years if we could have the broad economic guidelines a bit earlier, because the trouble this time is that we have had to rush to conclusions because of the deadline at the end of this week of the 21 and 22 June meeting in Florence.
This has meant that we have not really had time in the Economic Committee to produce a report debated in committee, adopt amendments in committee and then present to this House a report that is properly balanced in the way in which the three previous reports are balanced and reflect consensus in the committee.
The compromise resolution, which we shall be voting on later today, is therefore unsatisfactory in some respects, but that is an inevitable part of having a compromise.
This is something which the committee as a whole felt strongly about in the resolution on the annual economic report and it is a significant omission that it is not in the resolution to wind up this debate.
It is not part of my job to anticipate what the speakers on behalf of the Social Affairs Committee may say on that matter, but it is very clear, with the high level of unemployment in the European Union, that it is unacceptable that there should be something like 18 million unemployed in our society, with 50 million living in poverty or in near poverty.
Coming to the substance of what the debate this morning is all about, this is actually the European Parliament's opportunity to put forward its views to the European Council which meets in Florence at the end of this week.
The other important point is paragraph 11 of our resolution which calls upon the Irish presidency to report very quickly back to this House on what action is going to be taken by the Member States on the broad economic guidelines.
That is very important, and it is also very important that we should do so by a large majority.
I would, however, like to discuss with him in more detail what he means by encouraging employers to take on workers.
We are asking what efforts the Commission plans to make to redress the balance between fiscal and employment policies in the multiannual programmes submitted by the Member States.
And we are asking for greater coordination between economic and employment policies.
Mr President, you said, when you spoke at the meeting held in Luxembourg on the Council's current economic policy strategy, that although the economic fundamentals were favourable, the Community's overall results were not yet satisfactory.
That does not, however, mean that the strategy itself is called into question: progress has been made more difficult as a result of the slow-down in activity over the past twelve months but the current strategy needs to be continued and reinforced.
The Council expects the positive impact of the action taken by the Member States in response to the maximum guidelines to become more perceptible as time goes on, with an improvement in economic conditions.
Consolidation of the process of adjustment, in its current form, is the way to create a macro-economic framework which increases growth and creates jobs.
The aim of those programmes is to secure the convergence required for participation in the single currency area and they are important in themselves because they are designed to bring about sustainable and non-inflationary growth.
The Treaty itself establishes a useful range of procedures - maximum economic guidelines, convergence programmes and procedures covering excessive deficits - in order to secure effective coordination.
This will be further improved as a result of the process which will bring into effect the third phase of European Monetary Union.
The maximum guidelines for economic policy, as well as the procedures relating to excessive deficits will, of course, become more rigorous in the context of Monetary Union.
As far as the objective of sound public finances is concerned, some limited progress has already been achieved in the last year.
If we are to increase growth and, therefore, levels of employment, there have to be measures designed to improve the operation of the markets, services and products.
In its plan for the maximum economic policy guidelines of the Community and the Member States, the Council points out that, as far as the improved operation of the markets is concerned, the individual Member States very largely possess the key to this.
The Commission's Green Paper on innovation makes a very useful contribution to the debate on competitiveness and deserves to be looked at closely in terms of how it can be applied at both national and Community level.
At its meeting of 3 June, the ECOFIN Council achieved some important progress in the field of economic and monetary policy that we are discussing here today.
Let me just summarize the main issues: as regards preparation for the third phase of Economic and Monetary Union, the Florence European Council will reaffirm that it intends to conclude by the end of the year the technical preparatory work on the legal framework to be used for the euro; the Council has concluded that it would be helpful to consider in parallel the problems of exchange rate parities and budgetary discipline; it has also stressed that, regardless of whether or not they adopt the euro, it is of great concern to all the Member States that Economic and Monetary Union should function properly and that there should be an exchange rate parity mechanism which provides a point of reference for the application of sound economic policies.
The Council has suggested that, like the earlier systems, the new system will be set up on the basis of a European Council resolution and become operational following an agreement between the European Central Bank and the central banks of those Member States that have not joined the euro area.
The Council stated that it favoured an asymmetric system in which the euro acts as an anchor.
The new system would be designed in such a way as to permit various levels of convergence of the Member States.
Turning, finally, to budgetary discipline in the third phase, the Council has asked all of the Member States to aim in the medium term for a budgetary position that is close to equilibrium or in credit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is delighted that the House has decided to focus on economic and monetary union this week.
There is no alternative to the Commission's recommended policy of reducing public deficits in order to create jobs.
This year, the Commission has two new recommendations: first, that the policy mix should be made more flexible over the long term.
We cannot hope for a substantial reduction in unemployment without strong, sustained medium-term growth supported by growth in investment.
Secondly, the structural measures taken to promote employment should be better coordinated.
The pact on employment gives the Commission the tools it needs to implement the 1993 White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment and the conclusions of the Essen European Council in this field.
As you can see, the Commission is following its own recommendations in trying to make unemployment a matter of common interest.
But the broad economic policy guidelines are also a vital instrument in our progress towards economic and monetary union, and must be applied to the letter.
The programmes must make it clear how the convergence measures adopted pursue the general aim of strengthening growth and improving employment.
The Commission notes with satisfaction that your rapporteur confirms the analysis of the impact of currency fluctuations which it presented to the European Council in Madrid.
As your rapporteur himself recommends, the solution is to be found in closer convergence, particularly in the area of public deficits, and the introduction of the euro.
On the subject of relations between the 'ins' and the 'pre-ins' , in accordance with the instructions of the Madrid European Council, the Commission and the European Monetary Institute are working hard to set up a new monetary system between the countries participating in the euro and those not participating at the outset.
The report by Mr von Wogau will make a useful contribution to the work which the ECOFIN Council has been doing on this subject since Verona, work which I would point out has involved a broad degree of consensus.
However, if it is to be entirely credible, the new system must also be flexible enough to accommodate the various levels of convergence between the different countries.
It is vital to maintain the overall dynamics of this policy by developing the necessary structural policies for promoting employment in Europe.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their presentations this morning.
The Socialist Group firmly rejects the guidelines adopted by the ECOFIN Council recently and we are deeply unhappy with the approach taken by the Commission regarding the economic prospects for the European Union.
Some 50 million people in the European Union are suffering social exclusion and poverty.
Internal demand in the EU is depressed because of the attack on social protection and jobs.
Public investment has fallen over the last ten years from 3.5 % of GDP to 2.5 %.
Clearly Europe is in crisis and we need coordinated measures by the Commission and ECOFIN to try to bring Europe out of that crisis.
The growth rate this year is 1.5 %, which I imagine will be estimated as even lower by the end of the year.
That is why we have produced a very critical report on these guidelines.
I hope the Council is listening carefully to this.
Monetary policy can, within the spirit of Article 105 of the Treaty, contribute in a substantial manner to the achievement of Community objectives as laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty.
The Council deleted the reference to an efficient coordination between the different actors concerned and between countries as essential to ensure the coherence of these policies.
The ECOFIN Council is acting with extreme arrogance if it believes it can simply disregard growth and employment in the European Union.
We were deeply unhappy in this House with the Commission text but at least it made some effort to refer to the need to bring unemployment down and to deal with the appalling levels of growth.
The Council text is completely unacceptable to this House.
If the Council would look at paragraph 10 of the resolution that we will vote at lunchtime today it will see that we insist that in Florence these deletions from the Commission text be reinserted, and that is the text which should then be endorsed by the Council.
In this regard, Mr President, it is important that the analyses should take account of the criteria of those countries which wish to join the EMU but will not be in the first group and that notice is taken also of factors stemming from occurrences of an urgent nature.
I am thinking of my own country which, precisely because the European Union would not give political support if it were to be faced with a threat of war, is now having to embark on an armaments programme to the tune of ECU 10 billion, which will totally negate all of the efforts of recent years to achieve convergence with a view to joining the EMS and the EMU.
As Mr Lamfalussy has already said, the process of economic integration is on the right path, but the recovery we had all hoped for has not got off the ground and unemployment remains Europe's number one problem.
The EMI report clearly indicates that the solution necessitates, among other things, consistent reduction in government deficits; in that connection, the Institute should take action particularly in regard to those Member States in which those problems are all too marked and have so far prevented them becoming full members of the European Monetary System.
As Commissioner de Silguy has pointed out, the EMI framework defined in Maastricht should be directed towards a more active role in coordinating the Member States' monetary policies.
Explaining to the citizens of Europe how the single currency operates will certainly not be an easy process: there will have to be the maximum of cooperation on the part of those market structures in which citizens actually come face to face with the euro.
I have in mind here the retail industry, in all its guises, in which there will have to be a campaign of information directed towards businessmen, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and towards those working at the point of sale.
Public acceptance and understanding of the single currency will also imply acceptance and understanding of a united Europe.
Mr President, I am speaking on the broad economic guidelines.
The gap is measured most starkly by the 18 million people out of work and up to 50 million suffering from social exclusion and poverty.
The ELDR Group is strongly committed to achieving EMU in line with the Treaty criteria and timetable, but there remains space for real policy debate.
Finally, on the macro policy mix conducive to growth, employment and convergence, the Commission correctly referred to Article 105(1) and let me quote it briefly: ' Monetary policy shall support the general economic policies of the European Union, including those concerning a high level of employment' .
The abolition of the ECU will generate new problems in connection with the Community budget and fiscal relations between the European Union and the countries which do not join the single currency.
Mr President, the common denominator in this morning's reports is that they all want to keep strictly to the schedule and criteria set for EMU, regardless of the consequences.
In any case EMU will cause divisions in the Union, and taking into consideration an expansion from the Eastern bloc there will be at least a 'three-speed' union.
Another reason for a postponement of the EMU schedule is that it makes a genuine rapprochement between the economies in the EU countries possible.
According to some estimates a one percent increase in inflation could help to create two million jobs.
The Commission has recently published an interesting document on taxation within the European Union.
The document expresses the view that, essentially, taxation at the EU level should be considered as a complete entity, rather than on a tax by tax basis, since the Member States have already lost a major proportion of their taxation sovereignty to the markets, much to the politicians' discredit.
The compromise resolution speaks out against this terrible gloom and doom of the 18 million unemployed and the 50 million on the bread-line.
I have just read in The Guardian today that British Steel made £1 billion profit.
I would like to support the compromise paragraph 6 and the emphasis on life-long learning, education, and the creation of new jobs in new sectors.
Mr President, the Commission's report confirms the view of those who believe that both the Union as a whole and individual Member States will be adversely affected if the monetary union enters into force step by step on the scheduled dates.
This report, at any rate, contains only vague and general indications, and does not state when the general guidelines for the future exchange relations between participating countries and those not yet participating will be drawn up.
Monetary stability creates confidence, but monetary stability cannot be achieved by creating social unrest.
Third, the European Commission is currently making a desperate attempt to persuade the social partners to conclude agreements on a European employment policy in the form of a pact on employment.
But this will only work if we abandon our unilateral faith in EMU in the broad economic guidelines and establish a basis for agreement with the social partners, such as on creating apprenticeships for the millions of unemployed people under the age of 25.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports before us cover three areas of major importance: economic and monetary union, the impact of currency fluctuations on the internal market, and the annual report of the European Monetary Institute.
The exchange-rate mechanism is essential if we are to prevent currency fluctuations in non-participating countries and to protect the single market.
Our group has some reservations, however, concerning paragraph 4.
The measures involve keeping payments made under the Structural Funds in line with changes in the real exchange rates, introducing macro-economic conditionality for Structural Fund payments similar to that which applies for the Cohesion Funds, and making procedures stiffer under the broad economic policy guidelines.
The resolution proposes the right way to prevent currency fluctuations: stronger macro-economic and budgetary discipline in the Member States, which will boost economic convergence and prevent the imbalances which are the source of financial instability.
Once we have entered the third phase of EMU, the same question will arise in relation to the currencies of those countries which are still outside the system.
The Council has already made progress in this direction by adopting, with the exception of the United Kingdom and Sweden, a proposed exchange-rate mechanism based on the EMS.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are enormous challenges involved in introducing a single currency, and our experience up to now has taught us a number of important lessons about the exchange-rate arrangements between the countries at the centre of EMU.
As many speakers have already mentioned, we have 18 million people out of work and many different forms of hidden unemployment.
In 1992, we were promised that all the Member States of the Union would adopt the single currency by 1 January 1999 at the latest, apart from a few minor derogations.
Today, those responsible for the single currency project have been forced to invent a new monetary system, more or less at the last minute, in order to prevent the Union from being split into two or more groups.
But as it happens the Spanish peseta and the Italian lira, which are of interest to France's cattle breeders, will probably not even join the single currency, so the apparent advantages are somewhat deceptive.
The single currency might suit the European single market, but the single market is becoming less and less European and more and more global, mainly because of the European Commission's free trade policies.
Another much more serious problem is that a currency is nothing more than a vehicle for information on the economy.
And that equates, in economic terms, with unemployment, austerity, recession and protests, even in Germany.
And if the aim is prosperity, Mr Pérez Royo, the situation of farmers in Andalusia, Finland and France reflects what Jaurès said about money being the blood of the poor.
The House stated very early on that currencies not participating in European monetary union should be linked to it by means of an exchange-rate mechanism with the euro as its anchor-point.
In fact, as the past few years have shown, exchange-rate turbulence has a detrimental effect not only on economic growth, but also on employment.
Mr President, unemployment is at the moment a Europe-wide problem, to which a solution is sought in all Member States of the European Union.
It is true that the implementation of the third stage of monetary union within the schedule set in the Maastricht Treaty is uncertain, due to economic problems.
However, a postponement of the third stage and the postponement decision in itself will slow down the recovery of the European economy, keep interest rates high and cause great economic uncertainty.
I find however that fulfilling the convergence criteria is more important than linking floating currencies to the European monetary system, since it enhances political credibility regarding economic issues and provides greater opportunities for achieving both monetary stability and national economic stability.
Mr President, in April 1996 the European Monetary Institute published its annual report for 1995.
This excellent document contains a section detailing the economic and financial conditions in the European Union including the existing situation in the different Member States with regard to the Maastricht criteria of convergence necessary for the successful implementation of economic and monetary union.
The term is a bit strong and for our part we think there is consensus and that the prognoses of the two differ only in the respective importance given to the level of the rate of interest in 1994 and to the monetary fluctuations during the first quarter of 1995 as well as their impact on the confidence of economic agents.
At the same time one should bear in mind that the possibility of narrower bands of fluctuations should not be the only resort of Member States concerned and that there should also be a multilateral framework at the disposal of the Ministers of Finance, of the European central banks and of the central banks of countries which are not yet in the system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a specific comment on behalf of my group on the Pérez Royo report.
First, it would lead to less liquidity on the financial markets, which can in itself trigger greater currency fluctuations.
This seems to be a priority which, in my view, is likely to cause us to lose sight of the fact that the prime objective that the Italian Government has to achieve is to reduce the government deficit and, therefore, apply a sensible and stable fiscal policy which may help ease the rate of inflation which, in Italy, continues to be one of the highest.
We need to have transparency: a policy of transparency is a good thing, and nor do I believe that this sudden revaluation of the Lira is the result of the so-called confidence of the markets in the stability of a government which has been barely two months in existence.
That does not, however, mean that the Socialist Group agrees with all that is set down in the 1995 report or, indeed, the rapporteur's gloss on it.
In many areas the report adumbrates ideas given wide currency in the Commission's annual economic report, on which Parliament has already pronounced.
Finally, the EMI report failed to point a finger of blame at the rigid monetary policies pursued by some national monetary authorities whose effect in the real economy has been so deleterious.
At the same time, the institutions of the ESCB, the European Central Bank and the central banks, are not to take any further instructions.
The independence of the future European Central Bank would provide a sound basis on which its president could build a reputation for reliability.
It is important that we seize the opportunity to get our economies together to prevent future conflict.
I belong to a tradition of a party in Great Britain which has always believed in the United Kingdom's full participation in economic and monetary union.
I am arguing very strongly in my country that we should join a single currency.
I do not agree with him that we need a tax on currency speculation but certainly we need to avoid this kind of movement.
Finally, I am arguing in my country that the logical consequence of an opt-out from the single currency is a lockout from the single market.
I know that it is difficult to balance out deficits with a high level of public investment; difficult to reduce the fiscal pressure on employment, as Commissioner de Silguy said, but that is what needs to be done, and coordination between the Member States is needed for this.
The economic guidelines now before us are marked by the preparations for EMU and the tragic fact that the European model has created a situation involving 18 million unemployed and 50 million people suffering social exclusion.
I am convinced that cooperation on economic stability and a common currency is the most important contribution that the EU can make towards the creation of better conditions under which we can all be more competitive, achieve greater growth and thus create new jobs.
Even for those countries which will not qualify for the first round of EMU the process has resulted in a thorough and in many cases necessary revision of the economy.
We could learn something from other countries' experiences, however, more quickly than getting bogged down in meaningless political formulations about vague ideas of an employment union which has shown itself to have no effect whatsoever, at least not in the way it has been put into practice in my country.
But if we are to do so, we cannot accept the economic guidelines being proposed by the Council and the Commission.
I have one comment on the report by Mr Pérez Royo.
Finally, while we are in favour of monetary stability, it is our political responsibility to condemn the conditions under which the Council and the Commission expect us to pursue this objective.
Mr President, what message do Europeans have for our almost 18 million unemployed people?
New jobs in the environmental sector, social services and information and communications technology are not enough in themselves.
A chapter on employment in the new EU Treaty will not in fact create a single extra job, but the foundations are being laid for an active policy on employment.
The Madrid Council then decided to reduce regional imbalances, not least as a means of combating long-term unemployment.
The convergence criteria and the third stage of economic and monetary union must be adhered to.
As a hard currency, the euro will help to boost investment and to create new jobs in Europe.
Indeed until recently the growth projections of both the Commission and the OECD suggested we could still possibly complete that task of getting millions of people back to work by the year 2000.
What concerns me is the revision that has taken place on those growth figures and the likely impact on jobs.
Modest growth in itself will not bring those jobs.
What we need are the measures outlined in our resolution in order to see the real growth and the real jobs that we need in Europe so desperately.
I would agree with the Commissioner that the introduction of the single currency must not give rise to a split between the rich and poor countries of the European Union, but I note with regret that this statement is far from consistent with the intention expressed by the French Government - and partly taken up by the Commissioner - of at least studying the possibility of paying Community grants in depreciated currency and - what is worse - of making Structural Fund support conditional on the improvement of public finances.
The first thing we might expect the broad economic guidelines to do is to set a course for achieving adequate growth in the short term.
Clearly, the idea that 90 % of the Union's gross national product is earned within the Union itself and only 10 % through external trade has not yet got through to everyone.
Mr President, we are here to discuss a common project, the single European currency, and its next stage.
Namely, the relations between the Member States in the first group and those which remain outside.
The Waigel pact makes things worse, and it matters not whether those in the first group agree on it.
I would like the Commission and the European Monetary Institute to take note of this point.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with three days to go to the Florence summit, it was important for Parliament to say what it thinks about the economic situation in the Union and its economic and social prospects.
Budgetary discipline, combating inflation, flexible working conditions and increasing competition have proved to be anything but the right way to get Europe out of its present severe crisis, with 18 million unemployed, 50 million people living in poverty, inadequate demand, a lack of confidence, falling investment and excessively high interest rates.
And, lastly, the Intergovernmental Conference must give Europe a social and, above all, a political dimension.
Third, the convergence process is considerably further advanced than it was at the time of the crises in 1992-1993.
Finally, a few words about unemployment.
In every speech I have made, I have always recognized the fundamental importance of tackling the unemployment problem.
We shall have therefore to find a way of involving the European Parliament, but also the national parliaments, in the decision-taking processes of the European Community.
A few points now on the substance: the achievement of Economic and Monetary Union will help reinforce the conditions needed to give a fresh boost to economic and social development in Europe, making it more competitive in relation to the three other major economic areas in the world, and will therefore make it possible to speed up the process of creating new jobs.
If that process is to be pursued in a resolute and credible manner, the priority objective of reducing levels of unemployment is both a necessary and a consistent one.
A stable macro-economic framework is not then of itself enough to guarantee the creation of new jobs.
If we are bring down unemployment to a reasonable level, we need to take more wideranging measures, of a structural nature, designed to improve the operation of the markets, in particular the labour market.
The issue of employment is a priority for the European Union.
The Florence European Council, to take place at the end of the week, will focus essentially on that issue, with the objective of making still more targeted and effective the strategy for combating unemployment, the broad lines of which have already been identified in earlier European Councils, beginning with the Essen European Council.
We need to increase that support because it is vital if we are to make this strategy more effective and more vigorous.
Strengthening consensus, through dialogue and consultation, underpins the confidence pact for employment launched by President Santer.
In that context, we need also to find and apply in all of the Member States fiscal policies able to reduce pressure on earned income - a hope that has been expressed in the course of this debate.
The objective we have set ourselves is difficult and requires a collective effort at all levels, but it is essential, and the future of the European Union depends on its achievement.
Mr President, I cannot hope to reply in just a few minutes to all the questions put to me, but I should like to make two points, one about the single currency and the other about unemployment.
There is no doubt that the euro will enter circulation on 1 January 1999.
These are two very important points.
When the Commission presented its broad economic guidelines, I told you that they were based on three vital elements: growth, stability and employment.
The euro will mean less unemployment, simply because it will mean healthier public finances.
The euro will also put an end to currency fluctuations, and on this point I share many of the concerns expressed this morning.
I would point out that in 1995, currency fluctuations cost Europe half a percentage point of growth and one and a half million jobs.
So here too, the euro should make a big difference to our unemployment problem.
This is where the structural policies come in, but these are primarily the responsibility of the Member States, with Europe merely providing the leverage.
Let me just mention three other points which I feel are important, and which reply to some of the questions raised this morning.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It seems logical to me to have the vote on the two amendments tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Nos 59 and 60, before Nos 64 and 65, in view of the substance of the amendments and the fact that the Committee on Transport and Tourism feels that they go further.
I would ask all Members who think we need to find a solution to the backlog to take another close look at Amendments Nos 59 and 60.
Madam President, the amendments by the Committee on Transport and Tourism certainly do not depart further from the text than the others, since they do no more than restore the Commission's original wording. (In successive votes, Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions) Madam President, I should just like to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for their support in drawing up this report, and especially for their valuable contributions in the discussions in committee.
I think we can vote on the report and the amendment together - given that there are no other amendments - but I should like to clarify the following technical point.
Consequently, we should vote on the report and amendment together, but we should not vote on the second part of the paragraph in question.
Thank you, Mrs Thyssen.
Linkohr report I cannot support the EU investing a great deal of money in research which is not in line with the Greens' proposals.
The research includes aerospace research, as the text states that air traffic will double within the next 15 years.
More resources should rather be made available for research in the fast train industry.
There are many areas and objectives that I approve of, however, and I support the amendments, for example the reduction of the appropriation for nuclear safety by ECU 10 million.
Unfortunately, experience shows that this money contributes to the continued use of nuclear energy and gives the impression, in the Eastern European countries as well as elsewhere, that nuclear power is safe.
Strengthening the funding of the 4th Framework Programme for technological research and development, in effect since 1994, together with as assessment of its activities, is of capital importance for guaranteeing Europe's competitiveness.
All Member States must have a voice in defining the future task forces but it is also important that the priorities already defined in the 4th Programme should continue to be taken into account.
I back the amendments referring to the multimedia priority but must stress that only the budgetary increase proposed by the Committee on Culture will make them operational.
Sindal report Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the main concern of this report is to make sea transport more flexible and attractive.
However, various problems and shortcomings have come to light in the course of examining of this report, especially as regards environmental protection and safety standards.
Madam President, in commenting on the Sindal report, I very much welcome the plans contained for a switch of 30 to 40 % of trade between Spain and Britain from the roads to short-sea maritime transport.
The constant growth in the volume of freight, growth which has become very rapid because of the internal market and the World Trade Organization agreements, makes it imperative to look for a different approach to transport and for priority to be given to marine and rail transport which are much more efficient and use much less energy per kilometre/tonne.
The expansion of short sea shipping will require specific national planning within the framework of the overall organization of national transport modes, development of the requisite infrastructures, the deployment of financial incentives and disincentives and the application of legislative and administrative measures to create a climate which will divert investment away from its current orientation and towards short sea shipping.
The Greens have voted in favour of the Sindal report.
What I miss in the annual report is a proper analysis of how the policy being pursued affects ordinary people, as regards such things as the coordination of Member States' monetary policy, budget consolidation and the transition to EMU as a whole.
I oppose the introduction of a common currency in view of all the negative effects it will have.
Such a tax should be introduced by countries outside the EU as well as the EU Member States.
I am not against the national economies of the Member States being put in order but the cuts which are now resulting from the convergence policy should give cause for reconsideration.
Although it contains a number of good proposals, such as the tax on currency transactions, we are voting against the report because we are against the entire EMU project.
The report contains many good proposals, for example in paragraph 4, which states that a tax on currency speculation would be an effective way of stabilising exchange rates.
I believe that a new exchange rate mechanism will encourage speculation and could result in the same kind of economic disaster we experienced in 1992.
I also believe that completion of monetary union at a time when the Union has almost 20 million unemployed is an economic gamble which could seriously backfire both socially and economically.
Naturally all countries must make every effort to pursue sound economic policies.
With EMU, however, the EU has established an economic policy which puts price stability and balanced budgets above all else, which may entail cuts in public services and cause many more jobs to disappear.
From a democratic point of view the European Central Bank is unacceptable.
Allowing monetary policy to be determined by officials at the European Central Bank is not in accordance with our view that economic policy should be governed by the people through their elected representatives.
Each country must bear responsibility for and be able to pursue its own economic policy, which takes into account the conditions in that particular country and the country's industrial structure.
This will be made impossible by participation in EMU.
For example, if you talk to French people about a European currency, or indeed a single currency, they think you mean a common currency, and seem to be in favour of it.
Depriving them of a reference point as essential as their national currency would undermine them psychologically.
I voted against the von Wogau report because, as a convinced European, I believe that Europe must not be built on a massive lie.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that the convergence criteria for monetary union are a vehicle for the destruction of welfare standards in the Member States.
In view of this policy, which is severely disrupting the social peace in Europe, it is the duty of the European Parliament to speak out strongly in favour of the development of a social and ecological Union, and against a policy of stultifying economic liberalism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the crisis in the Community's fishing industry.
At the same time, although the amounts of fish caught have decreased - in my own country, for example - many species have suffered the effects of international market forces.
By chance, Commissioner, our respective timetables meant that we learnt your response a few days after this report went to print and after our seminar in Quimper.
However, seeking to reduce fishing opportunities by an average of 40 % in five years will, as you well know, not only mean the scrapping of large numbers of vessels, but also lead to the certain death of several ports which are already heavily in debt as a result of their efforts to modernize.
This is a very hard blow to the economic and social activity of the whole sector.
I am convinced that we must now display not only vigilance and firmness, but also imagination and political will as regards a number of new proposals which are capable of restoring confidence to the sector.
However, Commissioner, the Fisheries Committee also refers to the need for financial compensation.
The Commission's reply will be that the common fisheries policy does not provide for this type of funding, save in very exceptional cases. 'No support for incomes' , you will say.
If we have the money to compensate for the destruction of a vessel, then we should also be able to find the money to conserve resources.
In order to produce maximum effect, all these technical measures must be underpinned by constant and increasingly in-depth scientific research and far more rigorous controls.
The industry as a whole must improve its systems of information and communication.
However, Commissioner, I do not believe that the 'blue Europe' of 2002 will be able to make do with such a weak 'market' aspect.
We also give our backing to your achievements in respect of early retirement measures - although we wish that the Member States would play the game too, when they know that the Union is already co-financing these measures by up to 50 %.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to present the European Parliament's own-initiative report on the situation of the Community fleet in the NAFO zone and, within this context, fisheries relations between the European Union and Canada.
It is well known that since the creation of NAFO in 1978, the European Union's fisheries relations with Canada have passed through times of extreme tension.
The most recent fisheries conflict between the European Union and Canada - and unfortunately the one which perhaps gained the most international attention - was that popularly known as the 'Halibut War' .
Firstly, we must look back to the meeting of the NAFO Fisheries Commission of February 1995, when a TAC of 27 000 tonnes of Greenland halibut was distributed, only 3400 tonnes of which was allocated to the Community fleet, whilst 16 300 tonnes was reserved for Canada.
Secondly, Parliament believes that there is a lack of a genuine Community policy of scientific research within NAFO, and there have been cases in which zero TACs have been adopted without adequate scientific data being provided and without the European Union being able to respond.
Notwithstanding these controversial issues, Parliament takes the view that the prime objective, both for the European Union and for Canada, must be to avoid future clashes and take advantage of the welcome conclusion of the bilateral agreement of April 1995 in order to launch a new phase of understanding and cooperation.
We feel that the agreement on the conservation and management of transzonal fish populations which was adopted on 4 August 1995 in New York will provide a useful framework for improving the situation, as long as it is implemented in an intelligent and balanced way.
Similarly, the proposal seeks to incorporate into Community legislation the provisions adopted by the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources at its meetings in Hobart of 8 November 1994 and 3 November 1995.
Finally, it sets out, in a Community act, the commitments entered into by the Community as a result of its accession to the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources by virtue of the Council decision of 1981.
Our committee approves the Commission proposal unanimously, but wishes to make a number of observations in this context.
To this end, we are calling for a report to be drawn up - if budgetary resources allow - on the impact of catches on marine and bird species in the area, as well as requesting the submission of an annual report on the assessment of fishing activities in the Antarctic and the strengthening of surveillance measures.
With these comments, the Committee on Fisheries, as I said before, approves the Commission proposal unanimously.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of establishing the International Baltic Sea Fishery Commission in 1974 was to create an institution in which the countries bordering the Baltic Sea could jointly take responsibility for the management of fishery resources in those waters.
The report which is before the House today concerns the approval or rejection of a decision which was taken last year and applies to 1996.
Thus I am proposing the introduction of a limit on the engine power of vessels, such as 400 horsepower for vessels fishing cod and salmon.
If you are a hunter, you do not hunt game during the breeding season, and the same principle should in fact be introduced in fisheries.
We are hoping for a reform that takes account of new environmental balances, that seeks to retain employment in the sector and also takes account of the capacity needed to meet consumer requirements.
Production and market have therefore to be substantially integrated, and that can be achieved through technological innovation and the capacity to be able to handle increasingly large transactions which are both of Community origin and guarantee fishermen an adequate price, as a result of the role that the fishermen's organizations can play to an increasingly greater extent as an important point of reference.
We favour an approach here whereby fishermen participate in ownership; we are therefore also in favour of local multi-ownership experiments which are becoming a point of reference and, in that sense, we are in favour of a form of integrated management between multi-ownership and the local institutions.
The way in which we manage our fish stocks will show whether or not we are capable of exploiting worldwide food resources on a sustainable basis.
The Member States and the fishing industry must heed these authoritative voices.
The fishing sector will not emerge from its current crisis unless, on the basis of realistic calculations, the European Union fleets are finally adjusted to match the food resources available in EU waters and beyond.
Even if we cannot offer all fishermen jobs at sea, we should not abandon them.
Mrs Bonino, you have had the courage to present a proposal which is based on a scientific recommendation that the fishing effort should be reduced by 40 %, as Parliament called for back in 1990.
Since 1990, the Fisheries Ministers have approved reductions of 20 %, 25 % and even 0 % - depending on the type of fishery, and a further reduction in tonnage is being made between 1992 and 1996 - but not as much as 40 %.
Now it is up to the Member States to initiate the action which is required to save the fishing industry in Europe.
These are issues that must be tackled by implicating the European Union's political will and clear cooperation by the Member States.
Some European Union countries tend to ignore the real significance of the fishery sector for the whole European economy.
Portugal's accession to the CFP and the NAFO crisis have lead, in four years, to a 70 % reduction in the fishing fleet and the direct or indirect loss of some 12000 jobs.
They therefore agree with moves to strengthen taxation and controls carried out by the European Union.
Another aspect which we should pay special attention to is that of scientific research which carries out on-going analyses of stocks and changes in their patterns.
As is stated explicitly in the documents we are discussing, agreements with third countries should continue to deserve the support and full weight of the European Union given their importance for supplies and safeguarding production.
We cannot get a sensible solution within the current legislative framework.
With regard to Canada, I am delighted that in the Committee on Fisheries we made this report less antiCanadian than it had been.
I say this too with serious doubts in my mind.
The common theme running through them all is the effect that the excessive amount of fishing capacity has on European fisheries.
The Péry report on the crisis in the fisheries sector quite correctly points out that there are several problems that affect the industry, but surely the most important is the fact that there are too many boats chasing too few fish.
This is probably the most important issue that faces the EU this year as it prepares the multi-annual guidance programme - the fourth one - to reduce the size of the fleets.
Everyone accepts that many of the EU stocks have been over-exploited.
The most effective single action that the European Union can take to resolve this problem is to decrease the size of its fleet.
If this is not done, and done very soon, then the crisis in the sector can only escalate.
The ones who would suffer most would be the small boat owners, those with a small economic base and very little political clout but who, in fact, actually provide the most employment.
The decisions on how to reduce the fleet should consider not just the status of the stocks the fleet fishes but also other impacts of the fleet.
In summary, the fleet reduction is urgently needed and it must be vigorously implemented.
For unless there is a rigorous programme implemented right away then the next report on the sector may well be its obituary.
The issue regarding the Baltic concerns the adoption of a closed season for salmon.
The waters east of Canada have seen fishing vessels from Spain, France and England for hundreds of years.
Firstly, all the measures aimed at reducing the size of our fleets are the consequence of the almost total opening-up of the Community market to imports from third countries, whose methods, as the House well knows, are frequently at odds with our legitimate concern to conserve fishery resources.
Finally, it also seems essential to me to involve the sector more closely in the management of resources, in particular by giving it responsibility for managing the resources of specific fisheries, on the basis of historical rights, within the framework of decentralized regional conferences.
In a word, she wishes to decommission our fishing fleet in order to leave the field open for predators who use the GATT agreements for their benefit alone.
We are told, rightly or wrongly, that there is overcapacity in the fishing industry, that fish stocks are becoming dramatically scarce, that juveniles are inadequately protected, that the level of marine pollution is alarming, and that the use of certain fishing devices and practices is wrong.
In ten years, our dependence on fish imports has increased by 30 %; and the processing industry depends almost entirely on imported fish.
The promotion of non-industrial coastal fishing; the application of minimum import prices; compensation for fishermen for loss of income in the event of a fall in prices; and the strengthening of controls, especially on third-country vessels fishing in Community waters.
Yes, France's fishing industry still has a future, but it is not the fourth multiannual guidance programme which will restore confidence to 16 500 French fishermen.
The relatively high cost of carrying out such measures should be regarded as the price to be paid for dwindling fish stocks and for past neglect.
In any event, we should like the existing NAFO monitoring arrangements to be recognized as an improvement in terms of the conservation of stocks, thereby helping to safeguard fishing effort in the future.
For my group, therefore, the abandonment of this objection procedure is the key to further progress in fisheries management in the NAFO zone.
While it is true that my group's request does not correspond to the currently accepted international principles, it would nevertheless be very appropriate in a report which in several respects takes issue with those principles.
One need only look at the proposals concerning the voting system in international organizations.
If Canada really wished to permit access to its ports, it would have signed the bilateral agreement, one of the key points of which concerns precisely the normalized access of the Community fleet to Canadian ports.
Mr President, at the outset I want to congratulate all of those who have presented reports here today.
The current crisis assailing the Community's fishing industry is sapping morale from the most important employment sector in peripheral coastal regions in this Community, including my own country of Ireland.
I believe Parliament can play an important role in assisting in the restoration of confidence to an industry where morale is at its lowest.
At the same time the Lassen Report is indirectly being presented to us and suggests we should slash the fleet by 40 %.
We have paid too great a price in Ireland.
It is also important to point out, in this regard, that some of our current problems are due to the ingenuity of the Commission in its negotiations with third countries.
In fact, only a few years ago we were accepting reductions in our fish quotas but these countries were increasing theirs.
Having given in in international negotiations, the Commission has now resorted to the draconian management of our waters, proposing reductions in the fishing fleet by up to 40 %, such as for sardine fishing off the Portuguese coasts.
The Péry report - and I congratulate Mrs Péry on its quality - seems to take a balanced look at the main issues of the common fishery policy.
It will therefore win my backing especially since it takes on board some of the amendments tabled by me and approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, such as those on international negotiations, the reaching of interprofessional agreements and the possibility of introducing a storage premium to be paid to the industry under certain conditions.
On the other hand - as shown by the figures and recent declarations by the Commissioner herself - there are few countries (like Portugal) that in recent years have observed (excessively sometimes) obediently and scrupulously the decommissioning plans while other countries, unfortunately the majority, have not done so.
In many cases the research is already there.
We obviously need large areas to be closed off for fishing part of the year or, in some cases, permanently or near enough permanently, to allow the stocks to recover and to allow the juvenile stocks to grow.
I do not know about other areas, but in the North Sea sometimes 50 % and more of the catch of a fishing boat is discarded because it is too small, unmarketable, or whatever.
In fisheries, the policy always seems to be about reducing the catch.
The European Union is only 50 % selfsufficient and stocks are falling, yet prices continue to go down.
The Member States are unwilling to concede to the European Union the full responsibility for a comprehensive policy but are always willing to blame the European Union for the negative factors.
If we are serious about supervising landing and if Member States cooperate, then tonnage reduction could actually be on a voluntary basis with compensation.
Some trade restrictions are acceptable in view of the social environmental problems that are so obvious.
The report has been drafted in response to a Council regulation on salmon fishing entailing the further extension of the closed season in order to protect, above all, wild salmon.
In connection with this report the rapporteur has, however, tabled two amendments on cod fishing in the Baltic.
Another problem is the level of prices for cod caught in the Baltic.
Fishing in the Communities is a very volatile, very political matter at the moment.
We have too many fishermen chasing too few fish.
There is very little coal left in the United Kingdom and if we go on using the gear we are using now then there will be very little fish either.
We are, at the moment, in a crisis in the fishing industry in Europe and particularly in the UK where the fishing fleet is the third largest within the European Union.
The government is again preaching the virtues of deregulation.
In an attempt to reduce the number of vessels by the doctrine of laisser faire economics the United Kingdom Government has left the fishing industry in Britain suffering at the hands of market forces.
The same government began decommissioning vessels as late as 1984 and offered grants in return for surrendering licence.
The three multi-annual guidance programmes have all failed to allow Member States to reduce their fishing fleets.
In the UK alone it will not be possible to meet the 1996 fleet reduction requirements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I should like to welcome the fact that this important joint debate on four reports by the Committee on Fisheries is taking place.
We wish to underline the urgent need to establish a voting system which is in keeping with the European Union's actual weight; to modify the composition of the NAFO Scientific Committee; to increase Community investment in research in this zone; to improve protection of the Community's fishing opportunities in this fishing ground; to reduce the cost of monitoring systems; and to call on the Canadian authorities to make practical gestures - such as withdrawing the legislation which discriminates against the European Union and ratifying the 1992 bilateral agreement - and to insist that they lift their ban on access to Canadian ports by Community vessels totally and for good.
These measures are vital, Commissioner, for the improvement of the European Union's relations with Canada in general, and its fisheries relations in particular.
In my own country some in the fishing industry are calling for the scrapping of the common fisheries policy.
They conveniently forget what it was like before the common fisheries policy was introduced in 1983 and that at that time there were many international agreements.
By definition wild salmon is a salmon stock from a particular river which goes back to spawn in the same river in order to reproduce.
Finland, for example, now has such salmon stocks in just two rivers, Tornionjoki and Simojoki.
Mr President, time has proved us right - and not only time, but also the speeches that we have heard in this debate today, in comparison to those that were made in the past.
Consequently, if the Commission, as a collegiate body, refers in its programme of work to relations with Canada as an industrialized country, and if it intends to conclude agreements with Canada in the fields of competition and research and development which are in Canada's interests, then what we must do, logically, is refuse to decouple those agreements from the fisheries dispute.
Similarly, I have to say that the Spanish Agriculture and Fisheries Minister was unduly hasty in accepting a quota for scorpion fish which is so small that it reduces the authorized Spanish catch by up to 20 % in comparison with last year.
The fishermen I represent in Devon are very unhappy about it.
As for the 40 % reduction in fleet capacity, I trust this is an opening bid for debate to catch our attention.
Like the rapporteur we agree that the number of votes in NAFO should take into account the number of countries represented by the Union, that the opinion of the Scientific Committee should take prevalence when defining admissible catches, that the Canadian authorities should ratify the bilateral agreement and allow access to Canadian ports by Community ships.
But in this debate and in respect of a discussion which also took place here on the POP IV programme and the debate taking place in my country, I should like to deal with a couple of questions.
Secondly, in the European Union and Portugal in particular, the social and political weight of fisheries is far greater than its economic weight, by tradition, history and culture.
Nobody can forget, especially when we are discussing the Multiannual Guidance Programmes 1997-2002, when we debate the crisis in the sector or thinking beyond the year 2002.
Mr President, as a representative from Ireland, I wish to express my deep opposition to the Commission's proposals which we know are aimed at reducing the size of the European fishing fleet by 40 % over the next six years.
Certainly, it is the Commission's duty to sound the alarm.
And we are talking about tremendous rates of work, crews who go out to sea for 320 or 340 days a year, ageing vessels which fishermen have neither the time nor the money to maintain, and a single obsession: to fish more in order to avoid bankruptcy.
The role of the common organization of the market is, in particular, to regulate the conditions of competition between Community producers and to prevent unfair competition from third countries.
However, Commissioner, this is the reality which must be faced: the reality which means that whilst over the last four years, producer prices have fallen by 25 %, they have done nothing but increase for the consumer!
With the commendable aim of conserving resources, this plan provides for further drastic fleet reductions.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for taking part in this debate and, above all, thanks to the rapporteurs for the four reports we are discussing, although, naturally enough, the debate has expanded to cover many others aspects of the common fisheries policy, as was bound to happen.
I should like, if I may, to divide what I have to say into two parts: the first providing a specific Commission response to the four reports on the agenda, that is the Péry report, the two Arias Cañete reports and the Kofoed report; and a second in which I shall attempt to reply to more general issues raised here by many colleagues and many honourable Members.
At any rate, I believe that the contribution of this debate is very valuable, particularly with a view to the report that is to be considered by the Council.
For instance, you, Mrs Péry, tackle a range of issues on which I am in agreement; however, when we come to the problem of the market, a problem to which many of you have referred, I have clearly to remind the House that the professional organizations do not fit in with a free market situation - as you, Mrs Péry, are perfectly well aware - and that, consequently, since these bodies represent a departure from the basic rules, membership of professional organizations cannot be made compulsory; far less, it seems to me, can withdrawal costs be made compulsory for those who do not belong to the professional organizations.
For that reason, although I am not today inclining towards one idea rather than another, I have to say that the seminar with the sector on that one topic may help us take into account all of the constraints, including the fact that it will, in my view, be rather unlikely that we shall ever have the power to change the common organization of the trade or GATT - we may want to believe that but frankly it seems to me to be rather unrealistic, not because I am someone who gives in easily but because, in those terms, the balance of power is, to be honest, overwhelmingly weighted against us.
Moving on to the measures to conserve resources, the Commission endorses many of the principles expressed by the rapporteur.
At any event, I believe that this debate and those that follow will help us all to reach the stage that we have all to face - and the Commission certainly has to face - namely the 2002 reform, change or time-limit for the common fisheries policy.
Turning now to the other two reports - on NAFO and the Antarctic.
The Commission very much welcomes the report on NAFO, but the rapporteur will allow me to make two points: I have already said on a number of occasions in the House that the conflict whose political objective was, I am afraid, to expel the Community fleet from the NAFO international waters, has for the time being been resolved with the Community fleet which is within the NAFO zone.
The overall package, which was then made multilateral in relation to all the monitoring measures and so on, has also, I believe, been a positive factor; like you, I realize that the current situation in relations between the European Union or, rather, the Commission and Canada appears to have improved but is far from satisfactory - quite the reverse.
I therefore believe that we should persist in order to achieve a more balanced outcome, bearing in mind specifically that while things have certainly improved we are still a long way away, in my view, from a balanced and satisfactory state of affairs.
I believe - and not just because I believe in the European Union and its importance - that it is better to speak with a single and authoritative voice than with six different voices and the dissonant tones of various Member States.
But what the Commission can undertake to do is to transmit the data as rapidly as possible; in fact, we shall also be able to look into the possibility of collating the data in a uniform manner - that is something we can do but, of course, using data collected by others.
That proposal is not submitted to the Council by the Commission until the 90 day period for raising possible objections has expired, that being the time-scale set down in the Baltic Convention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that I have made those brief technical comments on the four reports, allow me to make a number of points on certain issues of a more general nature that have been raised in the House, particularly concerning the Commission proposal on POP IV.
Let me begin by reminding you that Mr Arias Cañete had asked me to attend the committee on 29 May, something I could not do because that was the very day that the Commission discussed and approved POP IV: the problem was therefore that of being in two places at once, a problem I am, unfortunately, not yet able to resolve.
This is not a generalized reduction of 40 per cent of the European fleet - that is categorically not the case!
The plan provides for a reduction in the mortality rate of certain stocks whose situation is more desperate, and that reduction can be achieved by cutting the fleet and/or by managing fishing.
That more general decision will be attached to the 13 national plans which the Commission will have to negotiate with the thirteen Member States.
The objective of reducing the mortality rate by 40 per cent concerns some stocks whose plight the experts consider to be desperate.
It is clear that, at an international level, there will always be some experts who do not agree with the conclusions of their expert colleagues, but sooner or later a decision will have to be taken on the basis of some data.
The third point: there are then stocks in which mortality rates will fall to a lesser degree because their situation is less serious; there are stocks for which reductions are not yet needed but in regard to which the Commission is proposing that there should be no increase as a result of improved technology: we have therefore a reduction over six years of 12 % - 2 % annually - to prevent increased fishing as a result of improved technology.
If I have to propose a TAC and a quota then I have to take into consideration a specific period and, as in the case of NAFO, the chosen period is five years.
The honourable Member will allow that a fleet that began fishing two months ago cannot have the same quota as a fleet from another Member State that has been fishing that type of fish for years.
I urge you to believe that the proposed measures are the minimum needed to secure a future for that sector.
My question was: who gave the Commission the information used as the basis for the proposal for a 40 % cut in Portuguese sardine catches?
Safety should be the prime objective of the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
There is a very serious situation in Ireland.
They may be increasing the tonnage but there is no relationship between one and the other and Commissioner Bonino should take this matter on board and try to ensure that the boats are safer.
Mr President, I do not like to speak in the European Parliament on domestic policy issues, but since a Spanish socialist Member has made some personal remarks about a Spanish minister, I think I have a duty to explain the problem to her.
Mr President, as usual, this debate on the fishing industry has aroused a great deal of interest.
With regard to the report containing the scientific data on sardines, this data has twice been passed to the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, a body which brings together the leading scientists in this field, including those from Portugal.
I described the situation concerning sardines - notably in Portuguese waters - in the House last year.
In accordance with Article 10 of Regulation No 3699, modernization of the fishing fleet, in particular for occupational health and safety reasons or with a view to the use of more selective gear, continues to be a priority of the structural programmes.
It is therefore possible to achieve this goal, even under MGP IV.
I hope that this answers the question.
I have no wish to restart the debate, but I should simply like to clarify the Commission's proposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the four reports will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the honour of presenting to the House, on behalf of Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, concerns the freedom of establishment of lawyers.
Firstly, why is a special directive for lawyers necessary, when respect for subsidiarity naturally remains a key principle?
Their answer was that experience had revealed the shortcomings, limitations and inadequacies, as far as the profession of lawyer is concerned, of the general directive which Parliament approved in 1989, and which has been in force since 1991.
And while their freedom of establishment is subtly hindered in this way, the Union's lawyers are forced to watch powerlessly the proliferation in their own countries of large, multidisciplinary practices, of American or Japanese origin or inspiration, which are able to circumvent the obstacles and tap the European legal market.
It produced a proposal for a directive, which it submitted to Parliament in March 1995.
If we have succeeded in this impossible task - and I have no wish, of course, to anticipate the result of tomorrow morning's vote in plenary - if we have succeeded in reconciling the irreconcilable, in securing the support of a large majority for the broad outlines of a consensus, then I have to say that it is thanks to the tremendous sense of responsibility demonstrated by every member of our committee.
And we were guided, I would add, by a common political will to achieve a result.
Things were not easy for any of you: neither for our German colleagues, nor our British colleagues, nor our Spanish colleagues, nor for your rapporteur, particularly in view of the fact that she is a national of one of the - let us say - more reticent Member States with regard to this issue.
In my capacity as rapporteur, I thank you.
It is a matter of urgency for the Union's lawyers - taking advantage of the new freedom offered by this directive - to forge organic links between their practices and set up European practices which are capable of resisting the competition of large firms from outside the Community.
I would appeal to Commissioner Monti: we really did not take this matter lightly, and we have, I believe, achieved a very good result.
Twenty years later, we are at last making this principle of primary Community law a reality, at least in respect of the right of establishment.
They will no longer be expected to sit an aptitude test under the directive on the recognition of qualifications, but will be able to prove their aptitude by practising the profession for three years.
Thus the Vlassopoulou case forms the basis of the provisions for integration into the bar of the host country, as proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights.
I therefore warmly welcome the presentation of a directive which will solve precisely this problem, and will in principle grant lawyers the rights enjoyed by all other European citizens in the practice of their professions in Europe.
The second point was the question of so-called compulsory integration.
My group and I believe that it should be possible to find a compromise in the Council on the proposals contained in this report, and that after everything we have heard today from the legal profession throughout Europe, they should be broadly acceptable in principle.
I believe that this directive, if approved in the terms in which the Commission has adopted it, will help the forensic profession, as I said earlier.
Mr President, I am very glad to see our rapporteur in this role, as we have just had an eventful time together in a conciliation procedure, but now I can contradict her a little in the open.
Mr President, the rapporteur talked about squaring the circle and finding an acceptable compromise with which everyone could be happy, because it ultimately gives everyone freedom of establishment.
But the answer is, of course, as it has always been: professional groups tend to wish to protect themselves from outsiders and adopt protectionist practices.
The next item is Question Time.
The Commission has been active for many years in promoting better living and working conditions for people with disabilities.
As has been clearly indicated in its White Paper on the future of social policy and its rolling social action plan, the Commission is committed to a continued strengthening of the Community's contribution in this field.
Already the potential of the structural funds in supporting people with disabilities has been enhanced.
In addition to the HORIZON employment initiative, significant resources are also targeted on people with disabilities through the mainstream structural fund programmes.
Quite clearly therefore it is the structural funds, and in a very special way the European Social Fund, which constitute the most important financial instruments at Community level for improving the situation of people with disabilities and the Commission is anxious to build on this.
As far as HELIOS is concerned, the Council decision on 25 February 1993 establishing the HELIOS II programme provided that the programme was to be carried out in the period 1 January 1993 to 31 December 1996.
The final evaluation report on the implementation and results of HELIOS II will not be available until the middle of 1997.
In the meantime, however, the experience of, and the lessons learned to date from, HELIOS II are being actively considered by the Commission in the context of a review of its overall strategy in this field.
The Commission recognizes that the European Parliament, the NGOs and, most importantly, disabled people themselves have high expectations of continuity of effort in this regard.
The Commission intends to consolidate and further develop its links with these in a common endeavour to encourage the development of better policies and the implementation of better practices throughout the European Community.
In this context the House may be assured that future strategy and any new initiatives will be discussed with the disability groups and, in particular, with the European Disability Forum.
It is fundamental in the allocation of structural funds or other major programmes that the amount of money available for the physically disabled should be identified. (The President urged the speaker to conclude) I am sorry, Mr President, but I am sure you, unlike the Council, can allow a few moments for the disabled and less well-off in our society.
I must tell Mr Killilea that we have an interim evaluation on the HELIOS II programme which was carried out by independent experts.
As regards finance, the HELIOS II programme was designed to co-finance the exchange of ideas simultaneously right across the Union and so it nicely complements the European Social Fund which cofinances innovative action in the Member States.
I am trying to get a better understanding between the cofinancing for the international networks and the co-financing at Member State initiative level.
Secondly, is it possible to remove the blockages which have been put in place because of dependence on Article 235 by Member States, particularly in programmes that relate directly to alleviating the poverty traps which disabled people have fallen into because of the lack of work at national level?
If not, then what are the proposals from the Council - especially the incoming Irish presidency if it has any - with regard to implementing a new article to ensure that these social action programmes can be undertaken?
The House knows very well the difficulty we have been having concerning some of the social programmes insofar as the use of Article 235 is concerned.
It should be stated here that the Council's Legal Service has confirmed the principle of using Article 235 to achieve Treaty objectives where there is no specific legal base.
We might also note that the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights made a similar recommendation when we talked about the programme for the elderly and that there was no other adequate legal alternative.
There are various kinds of safety measures, systems and procedures which are needed to limit the effect of a serious accident on the reactor shield, depending on the type of reactor and the national legislation in this sector.
Such measures are provided for at all the nuclear power plants in the Community where there could be a risk of excess pressure within the shield.
The background to my question is the fact that it was decided, in connection with the very intensive debate we had in Sweden at the beginning of the 1980s after the Harrisburg accident, to invest in safety measures of the kind I mentioned in my question, namely pressurereducing filter systems.
Question No 42 by Anita Pollack (H-0448/96) Subject: Potential trade war between Italy and the USA What is the Commission doing about the USA threat to stop importing all fish products from Italy by 28 July unless Italy stops all illegal driftnetting?
On 28 March 1996, following a ruling by the United States Court of International Trade, the United States identified Italy as a country engaged in large-scale driftnet fishing in international waters.
The Community also stresses that such unilateral trade sanctions contravene the basic principles of the WTO and the United States' obligations within that organization.
It should also be borne in mind that the same organization which brought this matter before the US Court of International Trade is also investigating the activities of the fishing fleets of other Member States using drift nets in the Atlantic.
I hope it will not arise because we also take the view that the action that has taken place is contrary to Community law and it is for exactly that reason that we have started infringement procedures against Italy.
I share the concern expressed about the infringement of the law and, therefore, I very much hope that the issue can be resolved by Italy causing the necessary action to be taken for the procedure not to need to go forward and therefore, of course, the United States' sanctions also not to proceed.
At first, the formulation of these European standards, which replace a multitude of national standards, made a slow start.
Question No 44 has been withdrawn.
Question No 45 by Allan Macartney (H-0336/96) Subject: Commission policy and criteria with regard to the need for NGOs to have expatriate presence in the countries where they work Many NGOs work through local organizations in developing countries, in recognition and support of the experience and capacity that exists in those countries.
In the fields of food aid, rehabilitation and longer-term development, the Commission has on numerous occasions stressed the importance of civil society and private initiatives in developing countries.
Mr President, the Commission entirely agrees with Mr Macartney that it is important to strengthen local organizations and enhance their role in guaranteeing the linkages between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
The importance of this aspect was especially highlighted in the recent Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on this very issue.
Against this background, as far as possible, NGOs must resort to local staffing, as mentioned in the very conditions of co-funding for executing structural development projects.
As a result in emergency situations and/or during the rehabilitation stage in countries which have just undergone serious crises and whose political, economic and social structure has suffered profound upheaval, it may be necessary to resort to a greater expatriate presence than, for example, in normal development stages.
In fact, in 1995, of the 67 projects which we financed under the budget lines that are mainly concerned with rehabilitation and crisis management, only seven of those projects fell into the category to which you referred in your question, in which reinforcement of European personnel was required.
The reason was that the administration was in a shambles and it really was not possible to carry out some essential projects if we did not contribute some expertise of our own.
You will see that in the report we are presenting to the Council and Parliament at the beginning of next year that this is set out as one of our main objectives.
Question No 46 by Marianne Eriksson (H-0461/96) Subject: Development aid policy An increasingly small proportion of EU aid goes to the world's poorest countries, most of which are sub-Saharan ACP countries.
Mr President, European Union aid to sub-Saharan Africa is comprised, as you know, of resources earmarked in the Union's budget and the European Development Fund which, as you know, too, is currently and against the will of the Commission not yet receiving European budget funding because of the Council's refusal.
The authorizations granted in the framework of the European Development Fund have continuously increased.
The share of g overseas aid taken up by the Fund has remained steady since 1991, around 45 % of all Community overseas aid.
This is important and especially so since of the 48 least developed countries identified by the UN, 40 of them belong to the ACP and are funded in terms of overseas aid by the European Development Fund.
As far as the Union budget is concerned, the importance attributed to the ACP countries and especially the poorest ones in the framework of aid and cooperation policies has likewise not gone down over recent years.
This share-out will remain in effect until 1999 and nothing suggests that it will be changed to the detriment of resources earmarked for the ACP countries.
European Union aid to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is indeed important and has steadily increased since 1990.
In that regard I have been urging Member States that we should coordinate our efforts and find ways of working together and that there should be no decrease in the bilateral effort which has been crucial in many countries and places for many different reasons.
The Nordic countries especially have set an example of very good cooperation, especially in ACP countries and through some of the best NGOs we have working in the ACP countries.
I therefore hope that Sweden, as one of the main countries that has pursued that policy, will continue to do so in future.
A second aspect concerns the poorest countries.
The Commission has decided that the funds provisionally earmarked for the next five years should allow for a greater increase for the poorest countries - the poorest of the poor.
Therefore we established a system that means that of the poorest countries no-one will get less than a 25 % increase in their EDF funding.
Most probably they will receive 50 % more in the five years to come as regards the EDF financial envelope.
In principle the poorest countries will be less able to absorb it and therefore it will be the better off that will get some extra money in the distribution of the second tranche .
In creating this imbalance in favour of the poorest countries at the beginning, we have tried to make sure that the overall balance is not destroyed at the end of the next EDF.
It is a deliberate policy which is already paying off.
Question No 47 by Graham Watson (H-0317/96) Subject: Microsoft monopoly Is the Commission aware that Microsoft is exploiting its monopolistic position in the computer software market to the detriment of European suppliers and users?
Having secured around 80 % of the market in this sort of software, Microsoft enjoys an unrivalled domination in the sector.
I do not believe that there is any way in which we can prevent what is a very good product being the standard for office software in Europe.
All attempts to promote alternatives to it from Europe will probably be a waste of money because it is a very good product and very successful with consumers.
As I said, we are discussing this with the management of Microsoft .
To understand the involvement of the Commission in the Irish tender procedure, it is necessary to recall that the Commission opened a formal proceeding regarding the maintenance of the GSM monopoly in Ireland in May 1994.
On 8 March 1995 Minister Lowry confirmed that all the preparatory work for the opening up of the GSM market to competition was completed.
By letter of 27 April 1995 the Commission had to draw the attention of the minister to certain conditions of the call for tender which could appear to be discriminatory.
It was explained that such an option resulting in a fee which is only imposed on the second operator can significantly distort competition and favour the extension of the current dominant position of the incumbent telecommunications organization.
At the same time it was stressed by the Commission that it was not entirely clear from the competition documentation submitted by the Irish authorities whether Telecom Eireann which already offered its own GSM service would also have to pay the same amount as the new competitor.
The Commission letter also mentioned that such an initial payment would lead to higher tariffs to recoup the money paid thus rendering the mobile service less affordable and restricting consumer access to the market contrary to the objective behind Council Recommendation 87/378.
Subsequent to this letter, the representatives of the Irish Government during a bilateral meeting held in Brussels suggested to cap the initial payment and to impose a similar payment on Telecom Eireann.
The Commission considered that if such an approach were followed, together with additional measures such as the right to establish own infrastructure, there would be no grounds for further action under Article 90(1) in conjunction with Article 86 irrespective of the option fee imposed on the second operator.
The role of the Commission is not to choose a given approach but to ensure that the approach chosen is in conformity with the rules of the Treaty.
During these bilateral talks, the bidding procedure was suspended until the official confirmation of the Commission on 14 July 1995.
The Commission was not consulted on the letters of June and 5 July 1995 mentioned in the honourable Member's question.
This is a key element in our telecommunications strategy.
Well, first of all let me recall that it is our policy to try to convince the governments not to impose a fee for a new operator.
In the context of the guidelines, two governments have notified us of their intention to take certain measures - I think this was what the honourable Member wished to know - in Sweden, where the measures were ones which had already been taken earlier and we are now discussing with the authorities how they can be adapted to comply fully with the rules, and in Spain, where we considered that there was no reason to raise any objection at all.
Question No 50 by Jörn Svensson (H-0460/96) Subject: Competition rules A company called Danisco has a monopoly over the sugar market in Scandinavia.
Obviously, when a company in a dominant position is abusing its position, for instance, by behaving in such a way as to keep other competitors out of that market at any price or buying other companies to close them down to limit potential competition, there might be a problem.
Secondly, this company is preventing the establishment of an alternative on the island of Gotland, which is important from the point of view of regional policy and where the sugar industry plays a major role.
Since Sweden has only recently become a Member of the European Union, some of the problems which might arise and monopoly situations which are there have to be tolerated for the time being.
In this respect I would ask national competition authorities if necessary to perform their own function.
But if it is a question of a dominant company or monopoly abusing its position then that must be established.
In 1991 the market share of the two largest banks taken together was 55 %, whereas in 1995 it was almost 80 %.
The corresponding figures for the retail trade were some 60 % in 1985 and nearly 90 % in 1995.
This is part of the game and is happening every day everywhere in Europe.
By the way, since 1988 we have had to vet more than 400 cases of big mergers and acquisitions.
Everyone would agree that it has been a rather successful policy and in several cases we had to impose conditions on such mergers and acquisitions.
In Finland there was the merger between Kymmene and Repola .
The basic rule is that acquiring a dominant position by merger or by acquisition is not allowed.
This is a real guarantee against too big mergers and certainly against the creation of dominant positions by means of mergers and acquisitions.
I should also tell you that we have another instrument, namely Article 86.
No-one should point the finger at a company which acquires a dominant position by virtue of its own strength rather than by merger or acquisition.
Last year there was an increase of one-third in the number of cases, more than 30 % of the number of cases in the competition field, and this was only partly because of enlargement.
There is the so-called Dutch clause - Article 22 of the merger regulation - which allows national authorities to take a case before the Commission even if the figure does not reach the threshold.
I cannot be more specific but as far as I know the Finnish authorities are rather in favour of that kind of cooperation.
Question No 56 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0422/96) Subject: Tobacco farming in the EU What prospects does the Commissioner for agriculture envisage for tobacco farming in the EU in general and in Spain in particular?
With regard to Spain, however, I would make the point that, as in other less-favoured regions of the European Union, tobacco growing represents practically the only source of income for many small farmers there.
You will be aware, Commissioner, that these farmers and their families are concerned for their future, since tobacco farming is an activity of great social importance which creates and supports a large number of jobs in the regions concerned.
And I am sure that it is quite clear to the Commissioner that what must never occur is a drastic reduction in tobacco farming without prior provision for farming of an alternative, substitute crop with the same characteristics in terms of socio-economic benefits.
I am well aware how important tobacco growing is for many small farmers in the European Union.
Question No 57 by Ulf Holm (H-0428/96) Subject: Subsidies to tobacco growers About ECU 1 billion is paid to tobacco growers in the Union every year, whilst the smoking of tobacco causes diseases and human suffering.
When I last looked at this issue, I discovered that 80 % of the value of the product is in fact Community subsidy to tobacco growers - 80 % - and that is not very helpful.
The annual payment that some of the tobacco growers get is, in fact, more than the value of the land that tobacco is grown on.
I have a good deal of sympathy for what you say, but you should realize that you have at the same time given evidence of the fact that tobacco cannot be grown profitably in the European Union without subsidies.
I wish to point out that subsidies for tobacco production not only go to the very poorest Members of the European Union but also to countries like France, Germany and Austria, which have among the highest income per head within the Union.
Surely we should not be subsidizing very rich countries to produce what you have just said is a very unprofitable crop when there is absolutely no economic reason for doing so?
We should do away with that completely and help, through structural funds, those countries where there is a real economic problem and help them to develop alternative crops.
Unfortunately, because of the structures which exist - even in the country with the best structures in the European Union, namely the United Kingdom - some farmers are experiencing real income problems.
As the author is not present Question No 59 lapses.
Question No 60 by Christine Crawley (H-0453/96) Subject: Job losses in agricultural industries What does the Commission estimate is the number of jobs lost and under threat in the European Union, in agriculture-related industries as a result of the BSE crisis and subsequent export bans?
The Commission has no precise statistics on how many jobs have been lost, or are at risk, in the processing industry, in slaughterhouses or in the cattle trade, as a result of the BSE crisis.
One of the most important short-term measures which we have taken in this context is of course intervention.
It is the Commission's responsibility to produce an annual employment report in the European Union and therefore I would suggest that it is very important that the Commission actually starts some scheme of monitoring the jobs and the sectors that are under threat in this crisis.
I know anecdotally, as an individual Member of the European Parliament, that there are thousands of jobs under threat across the European Union because of the BSE crisis, not only in my own constituency, but in many of the European Union countries outside the United Kingdom.
However, if you think it important to have precise figures on the employment situation in this sector, I shall gladly pass the matter on to my colleague Mr Flynn, who is the Commissioner responsible.
I asked the Scottish Office if there are any programmes we can use to help, for example Objective 5(a) or Objective 5(b).
The Earl of Lindsay tells me that there are quite insurmountable obstacles in using EC structural funds.
I therefore believe that these large-scale measures are in fact the most important contribution in terms of employment.
Moreover, I would draw your attention to the fact that the volume of turnover is significantly greater in the United Kingdom than in many other Member States.
Although prices to farmers are low, the turnover of slaughterhouses is higher than in other Member States.
The question of employment can certainly not be seen merely in the UK context.
I should like to come back to Objective 5(a) and particularly budget line 886.
If you were to have a request from the UK Government to reinstate that ECU 175 million to use to solve the crisis and help the workers in the industry, would you be prepared to look at that favourably and would you be prepared to released those monies to the UK?
The figures which you have given tally exactly with my own figures.
It goes without saying that the Commission is prepared to take decisions on measures under any directive, but we do need a request from the government responsible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to bull semen, the final products covered by Decision 96/362 include products containing gelatine and tallow, which in the United Kingdom are manufactured strictly in accordance with the requirements of that decision.
Question No 61 by Roy Perry (H-0474/96) Subject: BSE The significant difference between the large number of cases of BSE in the United Kingdom and the declared cases of BSE in other Member States has been partly attributed to the United Kingdom's greater vigilance and understanding of this disease.
The unusually high incidence of BSE in the United Kingdom, compared with the other Member States, can be attributed to various factors.
I thank the Commissioner for his reply but I have to say that farmers in my constituency say to me they have grave doubts about the validity of statistics in other countries of the European Union which are very low compared with the United Kingdom.
The fact that, to date, 99 % of cases have occurred in the United Kingdom and only around one per cent in all the other countries of the world is not attributable to other countries being less meticulous as regards the obligation to notify the disease.
There is no reason why these two objectives should conflict, but nor are they are necessarily complementary, as this draft directive makes clear.
The draft directive has some positive aspects which I have no difficulty in recognizing, such as the satisfactory solution to the question of professional and ethical rules; the establishment of the possibility of group practice; and the completion, in spite of the restrictions I have referred to, of the Community legal framework for the freedom of establishment of lawyers.
Finally, I am obliged to say that we should have taken liberalization much further and deleted all references to temporal restrictions, including the requirement of three years' regular pursuit of an activity involving the law, which I regard as a lesser evil.
The various players involved - the Commission, the Consultative Committee of the Bars and Law Societies of the European Community and Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights - quickly realized that the success of this codification proposal depended on their joint agreement.
The painful birth of the 'pharmacists' and 'dentists' directives, which took 16 and 17 years respectively to adopt, provided an example to avoid.
The Group of the European Radical Alliance welcomes the outcome of the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which improves the proposal for a directive of 21 October 1994.
We support the provision allowing migrant lawyers to practise under the professional title of the host Member State after practising their profession effectively and regularly for at least three years.
Like many lawyers in France and other Member States, we have reservations as regards the possibility of practising permanently under the home-country professional title, without any limit of time.
It is for this reason that we are reserving our position on the report and the draft directive.
Mr President, the draft directive on the practice of the profession of lawyer is the outcome of fruitful cooperation between the Commission, Parliament and the profession concerned, aimed at achieving a balanced text which effectively ensures the freedom of establishment, whilst retaining certain essential safeguards.
The CCBE made sufficient progress to convince the Commission of the need to submit a proposal for a directive, but not to achieve the very broad consensus necessary for the adoption of the text.
However, this should not lead us to forget the other important provisions of the text.
My second comment concerns the particular question of the right to practise under the home-country professional title, an issue on which, as was pointed out a few moments ago, the French bar is especially sensitive.
In any event, it is undoubtedly desirable to consolidate the consensus which has been achieved on Mrs Fontaine's report without delay.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive which we are discussing today is undoubtedly one of those measures which, to paraphrase Robert Schuman, strengthen the building of Europe.
And this measure, like so many others, bears the hallmark of men and women who have proved capable of overcoming national fears and prejudices in the interests of a European vision of Europe, as Carl J.
Friedrich says in his book 'Europa: Das Entstehen einer Nation' .
And I should also like to place on record, in the report of Parliament's proceedings, the efforts of another lawyer, this time European and German - Hans Weil, who from his position as chairman of the CCBE, the legal profession's representative body in the European Union, illuminated the debate with his intellectual honesty and rigour.
The debate on this directive in committee brought to the surface the most obscure national fears and the most deep-seated mistrust between those of us who are called upon to pursue this common project of social, cultural and political integration, based on the rule of law.
And this project will only be consolidated if professionals in the legal arts, especially lawyers, become aware of their social function and prove capable of rising above the particularities of national legal systems, to build Europe on the acquis communautaire represented by the general principles of the law, as refined by our legal history and embodied in the Union's founding treaties.
And this rule requires a Spanish lawyer, for example, not to take part in a case involving the statutory provisions of a Catalan will, although his professional title formally permits him to do so, in exactly the same way as it requires him not to participate in a case involving German inheritance law.
Mr President, following a virtually unanimous request put forward by lawyers, the Commission has presented a proposal for a directive, which we are now discussing.
The general directive from 1988 on the acknowledgement of qualifications with respect to this sector has proved poor and inadequate, since most Member States of the EU have chosen an alternative permitted by the directive involving the introduction of a compulsory aptitude test for professional practice, which in reality has hindered the free practice of the profession of lawyer.
I consider this free movement to include not only the free movement of practising lawyers, but also the actual freedom to offer one's services.
The committee proposes that it would be possible to practise the profession of lawyer in all Member States provided that the lawyer permanently uses the professional title from his own country.
I believe that the Commission's proposal - to lay down a clear definition of this professional title throughout Europe - is a very good one; the discussion about whether lawyers can operate in joint practice, or in companies with share capital or partnerships, is also very welcome, because I think that this question will be of particular relevance to the profession in the future.
If these directives and the debate on them open up such a prospect, then the report is a good starting-point for a very fruitful discussion.
This is an important plank in the freedom to establish services and the completion of the single market.
Mr President, the report that we are scrutinizing today is a compromise.
Just as an example, I can mention the problem of the establishment of law firms in Greece via a particular method and with elements that are not applicable in other European countries.
I believe that ensuring the freedom to practise the profession of lawyer throughout the European Union represents a further step towards achieving the political integration of the Union and guaranteeing the democratic rights of all its citizens.
The Luxembourg bar currently has 620 lawyers, 27 % of whom are non-nationals.
Furthermore, national and non-national lawyers in Luxembourg coexist in a harmonious and collegiate way, and the user of legal services - the citizen - has confidence in lawyers registered with the Luxembourg bar, whatever their nationality, because he has the assurance - since all these lawyers have received specific training in Luxembourg law, which is different from French, Belgian, German or any other law - of being properly defended before the courts by lawyers who know both their job and Luxembourg law, as well as the specific jurisprudence of the country.
Consequently, instead of promoting the free movement of lawyers, the new directive is in danger of hindering it.
I should like to thank in advance all those Members who are kind enough to support these amendments.
Mr President, I too extend my congratulations to the rapporteur, especially for the compromise text that she has produced, with which I find myself overwhelmingly in agreement.
This problem has already been dealt with by the relevant services.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to join the ranks of those congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Fontaine, on her tremendous feat of having produced this excellent report.
I also welcome the objective of this report - to improve freedom of movement for lawyers by means of this specific supplementary directive - especially as the general directive fails to clarify the question of the right to practise on a permanent basis under the so-called home title, and because the aptitude test laid down in Directive 89/48 has often been a real obstacle to the freedom of establishment of lawyers.
Guided by the Community-spirited principle of mutual trust between the Member States, Mrs Fontaine, you have drawn up a very far-reaching proposal.
I also applaud the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens Rights' which has achieved a balanced position on the crux of the problem, succeeding in reducing to 27 the 94 amendments that were tabled.
The Commission is able to accept the main amendments and the bulk of the others: I am therefore able to accept Amendment No 10 which rejects the five year limit on practising under a lawyer's original title, as well as Amendment No 24 which provides for exemption from the aptitude test following three years' activity involving the law of the host Member State.
In the Commission's view, the difficulties arise in regard to four amendments only which, although of secondary importance in the general scheme of the proposal, raise issues of principle: these are that part of Amendment No 7 concerning the addition of Netherlands procureurs ; Amendment No 9 on the exclusion of lawyers holding a ministerial office; Amendment No 12 on the requirement of attestations of honourability; and Amendment No 21 on exemption from joining the social security scheme.
Observance by lawyers practising under their home-country title of the professional and ethical code of the host Member State is a fundamental element in the proposal for a directive.
Those rules must be applied in compliance with the provisions of the Treaty, the case-law of the Court of Justice in that field and this directive.
Let me give you one or two examples of professional and ethical rules: the prohibition in some Member States on maintaining two practices in the territory of that State; certain restrictions on the exercise of the profession of lawyer in tandem with other professions; the ban on the exercise of some activities which could prejudice a lawyer's independence; and professional secrecy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Ronald Reagan launched his Strategic Defence Initiative - known as 'Star Wars' - in the early 1980s, the general reaction was to regard it as a piece of science fiction.
The Commission has done a good job in this respect.
Unfortunately, however, the Member States of the European Union were caught napping again at the ITU conference in Geneva last year, and allowed Bill Gates and his new company to reserve all the frequencies in individual countries throughout the world for data transmission through a system of 840 orbiting satellites.
The Member States - who are not our main concern in this debate, although as rapporteur I had to bear them in mind in order to achieve a practicable result - are naturally also involved, because they are responsible for allocating frequencies.
Here in Parliament, therefore, we have proposed that in the event of a failure to agree on frequency allocation, or in international negotiations on the issue, the Commission should be given a mandate.
There is an important difference between satellite telephone services and multimedia services via satellite.
In contrast, the multimedia satellite service sector, Teledesic - that of Bill Gates, let us be clear about this - is still at the stage of technological development, particularly as regards onboard satellite processing in which interesting possibilities of technological competition between the United States and Europe remain.
As regards satellite telephone services, given the very small number of potential operators and the relatively limited interest in Europe for that service as compared with the cellular service, GSM, there seems to be no justification for the Commission setting up a new selection procedure which would delay bringing the new services into operation.
I agree with the rapporteur, however, on the need to harmonize the procedures for the award of licences, but I do not think that the role of the Commission can extend beyond that segment.
I am therefore in favour of the European Union having a regulatory function but I do not believe that this dossier justifies the Commission being given responsibility for selection.
It is in that sector that the future of the information society is being played out and it will be important that Europe is not caught unprepared.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Hoppenstedt has explained with his customary skill and great clarity, we are examining this evening a proposal for a decision on an action at a Union level in the field of satellite personal communications services.
In fact, a network of satellites covering the whole planet in real time already exists.
A project of this importance undoubtedly requires a coordinated approach at international, and especially European level.
And it is in this context that the Commission is envisaging the adoption of a single Community procedure for selecting operators and granting licences to them.
Even if this directive does not concern individual licences, it could provide a framework for discussions which the Commission should try to complement.
Like the rapporteur, I approve the Commission's concern to establish a harmonized Community approach to the issue as soon as possible.
Finally, we believe that prior to any international negotiations, Community cooperation should be promoted, with a view to establishing a single position which the Commission can then defend in international forums.
At international level, the question of satellite personal communications systems and services recently took a new turn when, in the multilateral negotiations on telecommunications in the WTO, the United States decided to adopt a more intransigent attitude, threatening to exclude this sector from any future agreement.
In the view of the UPE Group, the proposed amendments in the international section also help to improve the draft decision, except for the possibility of giving the Commission a mandate to negotiate the allocation of frequencies within the ITU, in place of the Member States.
Luxembourg is a country for which I have the very greatest respect, but I have to query the idea of one or more satellites intended for use in satellite personal communications in the European Union having to be authorized in Luxembourg.
Thank you very much, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate all the individuals and organisations who have contributed to creating the compromise package before Parliament on the future of two- and threewheel vehicles.
The European Union as a whole needs to learn the lessons pioneered by the European Parliament; that good legislation is only made possible when you have constructive dialogue with the citizens who are directly affected.
This exercise has been made possible in this case because of the work of national and international bikers' rights organisations coordinated by the Federation of European Motorcyclists, or FEM.
This process stands as a classic example of how to connect the citizen to the workings of Europe.
The Council must now take this backing seriously, unlike when it responded at first reading.
By way of an example, a manufacturer such as BMW cannot require that only, say, Pirelli tyres could be fitted as a replacement when, for example, Dunlop or other manufacturers had made perfectly suitable and possibly, in some cases, superior alternative tyres.
I urge Parliament to approve en bloc all the amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy with the exception of Amendment No 3, which hopefully will be replaced by a new compromise amendment, Amendment No 20.
Sadly it seems inevitable that the Council will not immediately embrace our amendments.
Parliament has conducted a meaningful dialogue on this item and we will not take kindly to that work being ignored by ministerial officials meeting in secret.
However, when it comes to noise, major concessions have been made compared with, for example, a voluntary directive which has been in force in the Netherlands and Germany since 1978.
What Parliament is now proposing is much less strict on noise levels and the measuring methods used.
The Council is playing a strange kind of game.
Mr President, in my opinion the Council has given way to Parliament on a number of issues.
The vast majority of my group remain totally opposed to giving any ground on harmful emissions or noise at second reading.
Mr President, the European Parliament can be quite content.
Amendment No 11 would be a slap in the face for the innovative motorbike manufacturers who have voluntarily kept to the existing limits, only to be told in 1995 that they must now meet stricter requirements.
In the previous debate, I heard the kind of arguments which I normally encounter only in the Council, and now I am listening to myself.
The file has now run to 657 pages!
I would therefore ask you to appreciate that I cannot accept those amendments which seek to improve on elements already agreed by the Council.
Mrs van Dijk reminded us of that.
The common position made the procedure more rigorous, effectively introducing more stringent limit values.
With our proposal, we are therefore roughly midway between what the Council is seeking - which is even tougher - and the significantly less stringent proposals from Parliament.
We have already stated that quite clearly in Article 15 of the framework directive.
Amendment No 3 seeks to postpone the date on which the limit values come into force.
If we wish to postpone the whole thing until the year 2006, then we can let this go too.
Section 7, paragraph 4, contains the following note: ' L'inclusion du point 4 ' .
The inclusion of paragraph 4, ' Provisions concerning the branding of components' , in paragraph 3 implies that the provisions concerning branding will only apply to mopeds and light motorcycles.
The debate is closed.
Is there anyone here who would like to place their leg or hand in it? - then you will find out what this method of catching animals is really like: a cruel and inhumane death.
But the truth is that it should have entered into force on 1 January 1996.
It so happens that by means of a press release and a letter signed by to Commission officials, it was decided that the 1991 regulation would not enter into force.
In other words in order to annul a regulation or amend it, it would have been necessary for the Commission at some time in 1995 and according to legal procedures to present a proposal.
On 1 January 1996 it was already too late.
The European Parliament, through a vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs and a letter from President Hänsch, initiated the process to take the Commission to court for failing to comply with Community law, for the failure to apply the 1991 regulation.
We spend more in the European Union on farmers in difficult or mountainous areas.
At the end of the 20th century we cannot, as a civilised nation or people, allow this kind of thing to carry on.
There really is a serious problem of lack of democracy here, which we have to continue to pursue.
So the impossible dream did not materialize and towards the end of last year the Commission started to get nervous in the face of threats from Canada to take the European Union to the WTO under GATT.
But the Commission decided in its infinite and arrogant wisdom that a possible and dodgy threat from a foreign government with a big vested interest in making a lot of money out of its exploited indigenous people was more important than democracy, more important than the European Union's own law, duly enacted, more important than the interests of 350 million citizens and consumers and more important than animal welfare.
Since 1991, it has been the position that the regulation was to enter into force on 1 January 1996.
But the regulation has failed to meet its objective in this respect.
That being the case, even if a final agreement has not been reached by 31 December of this year, it will be appropriate to assess the progress achieved by that point in time but not to place a radical ban on imports of pelts obtained from wild animals caught in traps.
We should bear in mind that combating unemployment is a priority not only of the individual Member States but also of the Union as a whole.
Finally, one last point: on issues of interest such as this, it would be helpful if the Commission consulted Parliament in good time and not at the last moment as has happened in this instance.
In 1991, the European Environment Ministers decided to ban the import of pelts from countries where leghold traps are still used.
The Commission has yielded to pressure from the fur trade and the threat from the United States and Canada that they would fight the ban on the basis of the WTO rules.
The European Parliament must not make the same mistake.
The European Parliament must reverse the Commission's decision.
The successive postponements of the entry into force of Regulation No 3254 cast doubt on the Commission's political will to comply with Community law, when it should be setting an example in this respect to the Member States.
This issue has all the elements of a psychological drama which we should very much keep in mind: the campaign against the unnecessary suffering of animals; the need to ensure the survival of northern indigenous peoples and their traditional way of life; the pressure from commercial lobbies and governments, which use unscrupulous arguments; and an interinstitutional conflict between Parliament and the Commission, which prefers to evade its responsibility to Parliament rather than risk opposing some of its partners in the World Trade Organization.
By ensuring that the ban comes into force as soon as possible, we shall increase the chances of achieving a result swiftly.
Furthermore, the procedural schedule in Parliament which is necessary to prepare for second reading and conclude this legislative procedure will provide an additional breathing space which must be used to good effect by the negotiators in the International Organization for Standardization.
However, I would stress the fact that the interests of indigenous peoples whose survival may depend on hunting must also be taken into account.
The Pimenta report is, in my opinion, a good compromise between the various viewpoints.
Preventing cruelty to animals is almost a form of consumer protection from a different angle.
By following the proposals of the rapporteur, the European Parliament would be sending out a positive signal.
But a lot of attitudes have changed radically in the last few years, particularly on issues of animal welfare.
As was absolutely predictable, that postponement failed to produce the hoped-for results in the search for traps that do not involve cruelty.
The Commission has not yet come to a decision on the request from the President of Parliament for it to publish a list of countries which prohibit the use of leghold traps.
Naturally, the Commission will respond to this request within the deadline which it has to give a reply.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Firstly, I should like to say that I am presenting this report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, in my capacity as chairman of that committee.
The proposal submitted to us by the Commission is, in my view, fundamentally balanced, in that it contains a section devoted to specialized breeders - in other words, producers of suckler cows and young bovines - and another section devoted to the national element, which will enable each Member State to adapt and respond according to its own specific circumstances.
These amendments seek to increase the aid to specialized producers to ECU 50 for each animal.
What seems essential to me in this debate is to support those specialized farmers and breeders in Scotland, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and France who live from the production of beef and veal alone and whose future depends on this activity, as opposed to other farmers who are undoubtedly affected by the crisis, but who produce beef and veal alongside other activities.
These are the producers who should be supported in particular, and that is why I am proposing to increase the compensation to ECU 50 for suckler cows and young bovines.
Similarly, we must have an assurance that meat meal has not been used in the production of imported beef and veal, since the current situation will give rise to an increase in protein prices to the benefit of third countries - which has already begun - since the European Union has a substantial shortfall in protein production.
In conclusion, Commissioner, I believe that it is important to support specialized producers, and so I am retabling my amendments in a personal capacity, even though they did not obtain the support of the Committee on Agriculture.
Furthermore, I also believe that it is important to strengthen the European Union's capacity for protein production, since given the extent of the crisis, we cannot accept the GATT agreements in the form in which they were concluded.
While the Council had said that it was necessary to support in the short term all beef and veal producers, with the idea of earmarking no less than ECU 534 of the ECU 650 for the supplementary premium for male cattle and suckler cows, in my view, the Commission is ending up by helping only a section of European producers.
It is true that there is a need for speed and to commit spending, which has to be kept within very strict timescales, but it is also the case that there is something to think about here: I ask you, Commissioner, to consult the table that appears on page 49 of the first volume of this year's price package from which it is clear that there is a small minority of countries which have many more premiums than they do head of beef cattle and a majority of countries where the imbalance is precisely the reverse.
I believe that all should be given the same opportunities and that Parliament's amendments - at least those of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development whereby the flexible portion available to the Member States would be increased from ECU 116 m to ECU 424 m - will make it possible largely to resolve this problem.
You, Commissioner, have had the courage to take difficult decisions which have laid you open and continue to lay you open to criticism and probably will cause acute tension in the European institutional balance in Florence two days hence.
I therefore believe, Commissioner, that it is very important that there should be mutual understanding between Parliament and the Commission and a shared perception of what we want to do and the way to do it, including as regards this evening's measures.
Mr President, since early 1996, when the British Secretary of State for Health reported that new cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease had occurred among humans in the United Kingdom, beef consumption has once again plummeted.
The market for beef has collapsed not only in the United Kingdom, but in virtually every region of Europe, including Member States which have not had a single case of BSE.
The subsidy should amount to an additional grant of ECU 10 per head.
Mr President, Commissioner, in my view, the Council's proposal for a regulation properly has the air of an emergency measure in what is developing into a real crisis, not only from the economic point of view but also because of its political and institutional implications.
Right at the head is Luxembourg with 227 %, followed by Ireland with 147 % and France with 123 %.
It is not my intention to pave the way, here in the House and in these circumstances, for national claims, but it is at any rate right to ask the Commission and Council to prevent chronic under-utilization of Community resources becoming the inescapable rule for emergency measures.
The subdivision into the three methods of intervention - suckler cows, male cattle for fattening and the national element - seems to be completely inappropriate and allows only 30 % of Italian producers to have access to the premium.
But that is not enough: it also seems appropriate to give the Member States the opportunity to award national aid to offset the loss of income on cattle excluded from the premium.
To conclude, Commissioner, the resources of ECU 650 m are clearly inadequate.
The amendments which have been adopted by the Committee on Agriculture are definitely heading in the right direction.
The Commission must be careful to keep a close eye on competition, but it is primarily up to the Member States to take the lead here.
Now, however, I should like to put things in perspective: cattle breeders - and, by extension, the entire beef and veal sector - are today the human victims of the economic consequences of the epidemic of mad cow disease that has been raging since 1986.
For several years, beef consumption has been falling in Europe.
Commissioner, a crisis of unprecedented gravity is affecting the cattle breeding sector in the European Union.
It took only a few days and a few decisions - or an inexcusable lack of decisions - for consumer confidence to be lost.
We must face the fact that as well as this exceptional crisis, there is a structural problem of adjusting supply to demand, to which solutions have to be found within the totally destabilized economic environment obtaining in the sector.
The cost of setting up environmentally friendly systems of storage and effluent treatment is very high, at a time when some breeders are wondering whether to continue their activity in the current economic situation, or if they should switch to more extensive farming methods.
The laxity of the last few years was bound to have serious consequences.
In any event, the BSE crisis has demonstrated the fragility of the European Union, the instinct for renationalization, and the failure - or rather the non-existence - of European policy.
However, the crisis in the beef industry is unprecedented and much deeper than anything witnessed in the past.
The price fall has not yet levelled out.
Losses will continue for as long as we have not restored consumer confidence through total and complete eradication.
As a first step the package should be increased to ECU 1, 000 million.
The ECU 116 million - that is, ECU 9.5 million for my country, Ireland - to be distributed to Member States to meet cases of acute financial distress is also inadequate.
Mr President, I wish to acknowledge the Commission decision to provide ECU 650 million compensation package for farmers who have and still do experience serious financial losses resulting from BSE.
The collapse of the beef market is undoubtedly the most serious catastrophe to hit European agriculture and indirectly, employment in the agri-food sector.
In our desire to compensate all farmers affected, and in particular the farmers most affected, we should try avoid introducing an over-bureaucratic system which would only tend to slow down the payment of compensation.
I believe we should use the existing established structures of the special beef premium and suckler cow grants, both of which are part of the agreed CAP framework, as a means of determining the shareout of the additional funds between Member States while at the same time allowing individual governments to decide how best the package can be applied to each sector.
I do not believe that the compensation package of ECU 650 million is sufficient, but it is a start.
They were workers from the Midland Meatpackers, one of the many abattoirs in my constituency which has been cruelly hit by the BSE crisis.
In two days they met many of the influential people and groups within Parliament.
I would remind you that money is available both in Objective 5(a) and 5(b) and in Objective 4 to find recompense for these workers.
You have opted for the principle of solidarity.
I must say, Commissioner, that this affair is getting off to a very bad start.
I understand why they have doubts about European integration and the protection that it will afford them.
The first point I have to emphasize is that since 20 March, beef producers throughout the European Union have found themselves in a major crisis and have been facing serious financial pressures.
We therefore began by trying to estimate the loss of income among beef producers which could be expected in the current year, and to establish how much scope we had in the 1996 budget.
On that basis, we came up with the figure of ECU 650 million which is being discussed today.
As I told the House earlier in the month, an additional ECU 200 m has been earmarked for support measures in connection with BSE.
This means that we cannot go above the sum of ECU 650 m.
We then come to the question of how the ECU 650 m is to be shared out.
Under the first proposal, made by the Commission on 20 May, additional payments were to be provided only to those producers who had claimed premiums for suckler cows or male cattle in the previous year.
In response, we came up with a flexible arrangement for 20 % of the ECU 650 m total, a figure of ECU 116 m, which was to be shared among the Member States, with the option of including in the distribution of that sum those producers who are receiving no premiums, or only limited premiums.
According to the amendments from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, it is now proposed to allocate a larger proportion of the total for national distribution and a smaller proportion for topping up cattle premiums.
However, an option as far-reaching as this would lead to serious problems, particularly as regards the coherence of the measures in question, and above all would jeopardize the main objective of getting these sums of money paid out to farmers quickly, in other words before 15 October.
This objection concerns in particular Amendments Nos 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 13.
As for the request that the Commission should do its utmost to ensure greater use of plant proteins in animal feed, and to guarantee that cattle are fed solely on plant rather than animal products, I must emphasize on the one hand that there is already very considerable support for plant protein cultivation in the European Union, and on the other that a prohibition on feeding animal or bone meal to ruminants has been in place for some time, and of course we intend to retain that prohibition in the future.
Finally, as regards the option of providing national subsidies, I would point out that measures of this kind were applied during the last beef crisis in 1990 and 1991.
On the question of assistance for those employed in the processing industry, I would remind you that I addressed that issue in depth during Question Time earlier today.
President Santer, in his speech tomorrow morning, will give his detailed views on the Commission decision this evening on the so-called framework programme submitted by the British Government.
The debate is closed.
