Indescribable crimes against children have been discovered in this country.
On a day such as this the European Parliament cannot remain silent, which is why I propose that we amend the agenda.
Finally, I suggest that we postpone the report by Mr von Wogau on consumer taxes, scheduled for this evening, to a later part-session.
I believe, therefore, that the European Parliament must address the matter, condemn the actions in question and take such measures as are appropriate.
We will not start up a discussion on this!
Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development did in fact reject the request for urgent procedure made yesterday by the Council because that request reached us yesterday morning and it would have been necessary to reach a decision on the entire reform of the 'beef and veal' CMO and its financing in 24 or 48 hours.
I call Sir Leon Brittan.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to have this opportunity to address Parliament with regard to the action taken on the Helms-Burton legislation on Cuba.
The United States Congress, as Parliament knows, has introduced legislation aimed at obliging third countries to follow American policy in respect of those countries.
It is fair to say that initially the administration was opposed to this legislation but in the end, as a result in particular, as far as Cuba was concerned, of events involving the shooting down of planes by the Cuban Government, President Clinton signed both laws.
From the outset, both during the period when that legislation was going through the United States Congress and since then, the European Union has expressed strong and determined opposition to this legislation, as have countries as close to the United States as Canada and Mexico and, indeed, the Organization of American States.
It is true to say that as far as the Helms-Burton legislation is concerned, as a result partly of our strong expression of feeling and opposition, the President of the United States suspended the coming into effect of part of the legislation, Title 3, in the sense that, for a period of six months, he suspended the ability of private individuals to bring legal suits although liability that would have accrued remains accruing even if it cannot be actually taken to court.
As I have said, we expressed our deep concern, but we came to the conclusion that the time must come not just to express concern but to protect European Union interests.
It identified a range of measures which the European Union could deploy in response: resort to the WTO panel - we have already begun the process of consultation; changes in the procedures governing entry by United States citizens to the European Union; the introduction, above all, of legislation to neutralize the extra-territorial affects of the United States' legislation and the establishment of a watch list containing the names of companies and individuals who took action against European Union entities on the basis of this legislation.
The Commission reacted urgently to that decision of the Council and has already tabled a proposal for Community anti-boycott legislation which would have the effect of nullifying action based on that legislation as far as European law is concerned but also providing for compensation being obtainable in European courts if compensation was obtained in American courts against European companies.
The Commission has also worked on that and the Council is now studying the proposal and is also looking at the visa question.
His main message was that the United States wants to work together with or in parallel with the European Union to try to improve prospects for democracy and respect for human rights in Cuba.
He said the more an international framework of cooperation can be created, the easier it would be for President Clinton to repeat his July decision, which only has effect for six months, to suspend the right to file cases under Title 3 of Helms-Burton.
I expressed our desire for democracy to come to Cuba but I pointed out that the introduction and enactment of legislation of the Helms-Burton kind was the worst possible basis on which to construct a truly cooperative approach to this problem between the United States and Europe.
I reiterated our objections to the legislation and stressed our determination to defend European Union interests with vigour, determination and urgency.
It is all the more regrettable to me who devoted a considerable part of last year to achieving the new trans-Atlantic initiative and the action plan designed to reinforce relations with the United States.
That taught me and everybody else who was working on it that our relations with the United States are wide and comprehensive and however great our resentment may be about Helms-Burton and however strong our determination must be to take all steps to protect European interests, it is important also to look at the relationship as a whole.
I am grateful to Sir Leon Brittan for his statement.
I agree with Mr Donnelly that it is necessary to stand up to this, not only to protect the interests attacked directly but also to deter further action.
Mr President, my compliments to the Commissioner for the way in which he is safeguarding European interests over this.
Commissioner, when will Parliament officially be consulted on a Community regulation?
That is absolutely crucial.
I am not sure myself whether The Hague court is the most rapid and effective way of dealing with the situation but we are open to all suggestions.
I should now like to say a word in favour of its people by clearing away an old misconception: that everyone who is in favour of Cuba is necessarily pro-Castro; that those who criticize it are against the system; and now that those who are against the Helms-Barton legislation must of necessity be against the United States.
The real subject of this diatribe must be the people, which is paying, more or less for everybody, the price of a situation which, to put it mildly, is unacceptable.
We of course have to protect our own interests but also we have to ask ourselves what will help the Cuban people.
We are as enthusiastic as anyone in the United States or anywhere else about democracy and human rights returning to Cuba.
That does not happen to be my opinion nor is it a consensus in the European Union or in the European Commission but no decisions have been taken relating to that question in recent days at European level.
It will come to Parliament as soon as the Council of Ministers has reached the appropriate point in its deliberations.
Commissioner, two months ago a seminar was held in Sitges, convened by IRELA, an institution known to this House, and the Washington Centre for International Studies, and all the experts there, including the Americans, considered, as you do, that this law is contrary to international law and to international trade, and hence to the sovereignty of nations.
There are countries which have taken rather mild measures and others which have acted more energetically.
If this does not happen, if there is no vigorous response from the European Union, the United States will believe that in future it can take whatever decision it likes as regards other countries.
I believe he will know that Parliament has gone on record against the Helms-Burton legislation on a number of occasions, once in a report which I introduced here.
In those circumstances, will the Commissioner consider what other actions can be taken through the World Trade Organization, through GATT and in other respects which some of my colleagues have mentioned this afternoon?
The pressure put on now is absolutely vital for the final result we wish to achieve.
Whatever the outcome, there will be lots of new members and one of the problems in the past has been a lack of knowledge and sometimes a lack of interest in European affairs by the recent, rather radical Congress.
Mr President, we readily endorse the Commission's opposition to the American measures and I am grateful to Sir Leon Brittan for his statement.
In a previous capacity I had to consider issues relating to terrorism and I can assure you that its international complexity is considerable.
I would be interested to know what legal differences you see between the D'Amato legislation and the Helms-Burton legislation because my impression is that there are differences of view on this within the Commission too, at least from what emerged in the Committee on External Economic Relations this week, with which I do not agree.
The other main difference is that whereas the President has a discretion to suspend or partially suspend the operation of Title 3 of Helms-Burton for six months at a time, in the D'Amato legislation he has a much greater discretion as to how to apply it, whether to apply it and the extent to which it should be applied.
So there are significant legal, practical and economic differences between the two pieces of legislation.
I should like to congratulate Sir Leon and the Commission on their firm stand on this question.
It seems to me that the US concern about democracy in Cuba is rather like their concern about peace in Iraq where they are delivering peace by Cruise missile.
Having visited Cuba and the US a number of times, I have to say that in many ways Cuba is a more democratic society than the USA where both major parties are owned by corporate America.
Under Title 3 - the one which has been suspended as far as action is concerned - obviously there has been no legal action by individual companies because the President has suspended that.
I am sure that Parliament will tell Sir Leon Brittan that it very much values the relationship between the European Union and the United States of America.
We thank Sir Leon Brittan for his statements.
I call Sir Leon Brittan.
Mr President, the recent tragic events here in Belgium of which we were brutally reminded yesterday and today as more victims of violence and paedophilia have been uncovered has put the spotlight on the whole question of the horrific sexual exploitation of children.
I speak on behalf of all my colleagues at the Commission when I join Parliament in expressing our deep sense of shock and sorrow about this summer's events, feelings shared by all civilized people throughout the European Union and beyond.
Representatives from 130 governments participated in the conference as well as non-governmental and intergovernmental organizations.
It is already apparent that there is a need for a clear and wide-ranging approach based upon international cooperation and active collaboration between governments and NGOs.
As part of this effort and with a view to identifying specific initiatives at the level of the European Union, the Commission is now working on a communication to the Council and the European Parliament on trafficking in women, including young women, for sexual exploitation.
Thirdly, the Commission is looking into the problem of child pornography and the use of networks such as Internet between paedophiles and will propose actions aimed at the offensive use of information networks.
The freedom to express one's ideas and opinion is a fundamental human right and must remain so.
The Commission hopes that the informal meeting of Ministers of Justice and the Interior on 27 September will provide an opportunity for a productive debate on this and other proposals such as those announced by Belgium and also the Commission's contribution.
Leatitia and Sabine were fortunately rescued in time, but Julie, Mélissa, An and Eefje are dead.
And, let me remind you, we still know nothing of the fate of Gevrij, aged 6, Ilse, aged 19, Élisabeth, aged 12 - whose father, as you will remember, appeared in this House and showed us her paintings, in an unforgettable expression of grief - Nathalie, aged 9, Lubna, aged 9, Sylvie, aged 19, Ken, aged 8, and Yann, aged 12.
And we know that Catherine, Kim and Carola are dead, though we do not as yet know the circumstances.
They have given us, in Belgium, a lesson in responsibility, in civic duty, and in moral courage.
Basically, they raise the problem of protection, and more simply of respect for children, respect for their dignity and, I would add, respect for women, too.
The trade in paedophilia, the trafficking in children, is an organized business with national, European and international channels, networks, finance.
Europol, as we have already said in the European Parliament, must have a mandate to hunt down those who traffic in children, in under-age children and women.
The EPP Group also looks to the European Commission for a rapid proposal to have the Stockholm Declaration translated in the very near future into policy proposals for the European Union.
What is at stake here is the honour of our society, the respect due to children and the future which they represent.
Mr President, recent events have tragically highlighted the serious problem of child prostitution.
We are all, ladies and gentlemen, guilty of indifference and laziness, because it took the tragedy of the Dutroux case to bring this debate onto our Parliament's agenda, although we know that every year sees a great many children surrendered to the sex market, in Europe and in the rest of the world.
With this aim in mind, we propose that the Intergovernmental Conference should finalize a legal basis which will allow a Community policy to be pursued with regard to the traffic in human beings.
Let them apply their legislation and seal any loopholes in it.
Ladies and gentlemen, a child is something essential in a different way from a Euro or an ECU.
Let us take specific action to protect the future of the Europe we are building for our children.
It has taken an indescribable tragedy, directly affecting our children and played out in full view in one of our Member States, for children finally to occupy the central place that they deserve within our society.
Strengthening the third pillar of the Treaty could provide us with the means to combat these international networks of organized criminals.
Let us hope, Mr President, that the evil which is now causing such pain to Belgium and revulsion to us all proves to be the long-awaited trigger mechanism that enables us, at last, to say: never again.
What leads to it is complex, and asks us questions at every level of society.
Let us leave it to the judges, to the psychiatrists, to determine what criminal responsibility is and to ask questions of the world which, whether we like it or not, produces these crimes and these criminals.
Although the Belgian writer Paul Vandrommes wrote in yesterday's Le Monde that 'the Dutroux case shows that there is no longer any such thing as an organic Belgian society, that no one still believes in justice or in judges, that the State no longer exists' , we should be careful not to stigmatize one country and its population - we should see these murders as a tragic and awful warning of something that could happen in any of our countries.
As far as Europe is concerned, 18 % of sex tourists are German, 12 % British, 6 % French.
The lack of resources allocated to the operations of justice in several Member States, especially my own, is clearly intolerable.
A legal system which has no resources cannot operate effectively.
I think it is clear that in legal matters, in criminal matters, in social matters and in educational matters the Member States must allocate the resources that are essential for effective action.
The need for international co-operation is obvious.
There must be a specific follow-up to the work done by the Stockholm Congress.
The quality of a society is measured in terms of the human worth of its members and the importance accorded to human beings in its priority political choices.
And the weakest include children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Radical Alliance I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to the parents and families of the girls murdered in my country.
We believe that this call by the European Union should be included in the annual report on human rights.
First of all our thoughts are with the families concerned: the Russo and Lejeune families in Grâce-Hollogne, the Marchal and Lambrecks families in Hasselt and all those families who still have no news of their missing children.
People's faith in the rule of law and political power has been dealt a sharp blow.
There are children in the third world and here who prostitute themselves in order to eat.
We have a society which is so bad at directing its mind and its efforts towards real action to protect the most elementary rights of children and other weak groups in the world.
We could talk about the lack of cooperation by the forces of justice in the various Member States.
I do not think that it is enough to combat child pornography: it is necessary to combat pornography in general, also in order to protect children, and, as has in fact been emphasized, the responsibility for this lies with all adults, in the hedonistic climate which now prevails, where pleasure and money are the ultimate criteria of value and behaviour.
There must be the prospect of setting up an ad hoc Community fund for monitoring in practice the most outstanding cases of violence against minors.
But in addition, and above all, we have a duty to develop the necessary instruments at European level.
For example, we must encourage the co-ordination of existing bodies, such as Europol, and increase their means of action, and we must support those initiatives - often in the form of charities - which help to trace missing children in numerous countries.
We cannot forget that much of the abuse takes place within the home, that more girls than boys are subjected to violence, and that in some cases such violence is committed on a large scale in the name of tradition.
Bringing these to light would be a first step towards dismantling them, and it is our duty to do so.
Mr President, looking beyond the tragedy which has put Belgium in mourning and which concerns us all, we must also consider the growth of this exploitation of children for sexual purposes, with all the crimes, murders, kidnappings and prostitution that follow from it.
Because, as we know, globalization is having perverse effects on the growth of the traffic in children.
It has allowed the setting-up of nothing less than organized networks of sex tourism in Asia, in South America, and on our own doorsteps, especially in Eastern Europe.
As for the Internet, we know that it provides an ideal cover for the propagation and encouragement of paedophilia.
Then there is pornography: it is a fact that in the case of Marc Dutroux, and in the case of all those who commit acts of this kind, we always find pornographic material.
In this case there were more than 300 pornographic videos.
Mr President, the events which we are discussing today are just the tip of the iceberg.
They are not confined merely to Belgium but exist throughout the European Union and much of the developing world.
Last July, before the present tragedy came to light I urged Parliament in Strasbourg to hold a full and open discussion on violence against children in the autumn.
The Irish President-in-Office, Gay Mitchell, in response to my suggestion, said that proposals coming from Parliament to this effect would be welcomed by the presidency.
The Stockholm Conference has provided chilling and terrible data.
The debate is closed.
Public services The next item is the statement by the Commission on public services.
He will however be available to attend Parliament for a further debate which will no doubt follow in due course.
By next week, therefore, it is highly likely - because I think the discussions can be completed next week - that the Commission will have a document prepared in proper form, and that document will of course be made available to Parliament.
Consider, for example, the fact that within the framework of the single market, over some ten years, many different services have been the subject of cross-border liberalization - transport, banking, insurance, telecommunications (still under discussion as far as the post is concerned, but I know how controversial that is), energy - a whole range of sectors which previously enjoyed extensive protection at national level and often held a monopoly or special, protected rights.
The Commission and the European Union have tried, when drafting their policies, to move things forward while incorporating concerns about public service or universal service.
But, as I see it, there can be no escaping the fact that the Commission has endeavoured, whenever it has drafted a policy, to incorporate these concerns, taking account of the diversity - the enormous diversity, in some cases - existing between the Member States and between the mental attitudes of certain Member States.
But within the dynamic of the single market, cross-border phenomena do of course arise, as is only natural in a developing single market.
This is why the Commission, like many of you, is convinced that there is a need both for clarification, a clearer explanation - because there are things that need explaining which are often ignored, and for reassurance, thus creating a framework which offers a better opportunity to balance the situation and provide information about things while accepting the necessity for change.
The Commission and the European Union have no mandate to consider whether an enterprise should be public or private.
Article 222 requires them to observe neutrality in this area.
Another principle, which is contained in the Treaty and often overlooked, relates to the fact that it is the national governments that decide on special rights, specific rights or exclusive rights.
The Commission, true, has been given a responsibility.
For example, we have used it on several occasions - in conjunction with Parliament, incidentally - in the case of telecommunications, since in that case the framework had been established at political level.
In conclusion, as far as this subject is concerned, let me say again that, in the Commission's view, it is quite clear that the content of this kind of service - whether you call it universal service or general interest service or some other invented term - comprises providing equality of access to all citizens and ensuring they receive nondiscriminatory treatment.
Incidentally, ladies and gentlemen, let me recall - because I sometimes hear rather negative views expressed regarding the concept of universal service - that this concept of universal service is designed to oblige all the Member States to serve all the citizens.
That is what universal service means and, let's face it, that was not always the case, even with public monopolies, I think you would agree, in certain countries.
So this principle of access for all on non-discriminatory conditions to this type of service is extremely important.
This last point is very important, because, let's face it, when certain monopolies were in force the users had little say in the matter.
There is no reason why we cannot continue, or why the authorities cannot include these factors in their policy.
I am not going to become involved in the specific areas of transport, telecommunications, etc.
We shall certainly have an opportunity to return to those.
When we talk about a public service, or a general utility service, it is obviously necessary to be able to finance that service.
Sometimes competition allows this to happen, but sometimes it does not.
But it is necessary to verify that, although good reasons may exist for allowing things to be opened up.
The Commission's view is that it does not, at least as far as Article 90 is concerned.
We believe that, with the right framework, Article 90 can continue to be applied with its own intrinsic balance, and that this instrument should be retained, though we say once again that we are available for fundamental discussions with the European Parliament on this subject.
Over and above what the Treaty already contains in the way of instruments - and it does contain some, I agree, for the purposes of the European social model - it will be necessary for it to contain a strong, clear signal in favour of the public services.
I should like to say, on behalf of the socialists, that the concept of universal service, to which the Commissioner also referred, as defined by the Commission seems to us to be minimalist.
This debate on the public services is also taking place against the background of the Commission's decision - and we cannot avoid referring to it, Mr President - on 31 July 1996 to brush aside virtually all the important amendments adopted here, by large majorities, on the postal services, to take account of all the aspects of town and country planning, employment and social and economic cohesion which are close to our hearts.
I believe that the nub of the problem, certainly, is the financing of the public services.
The argument put forward by the Commission on this subject, the rejection of cross-financing, for example, will have to be the subject of very serious discussion, because I cannot conceive that public undertakings, or undertakings dedicated to the provision of public services, should receive subsidies for those services and, at the same time, leave the entire dynamic sector to undertakings from the competitive sector.
Our Group agreed to a Treaty amendment, precisely in order to make a rather more positive point on the question of public services.
After all, how can we hold a serious discussion with the Commission on a subject regarding which it has still not sent us a communication which was initially scheduled for June 1996?
The Commission's delay, deplorable though it is, is not a disaster in itself.
By accepting this debate under these conditions, and on a subject so crucial for our fellow citizens, this House is making itself ridiculous.
The first is to preserve solidarity among our citizens.
This brings us to the second principle of the proper administration of the public services.
Let us accept the idea of competition for public enterprises associated with the competitive sector.
But let us not go too far along these lines; let us organize the competition on a transparent basis.
The third principle comprises guaranteeing the States freedom of choice.
Without ruling out the changes necessary to adapt to modern realities, it will be impossible for the French Republic to sacrifice its own public services, services desired by its citizens.
Although I regard it as essential to continue adapting and modernizing the public service, it is important to confirm its existence in Community law.
The revision of the Treaty must give us the opportunity to do that.
It should provide an opportunity for an amendment to Article 90, to ensure that the Commission, when it comes to competition in the public sector, exercises only a supervisory power which rules out the possibility of taking unilateral decisions.
Mr President, with the Commissioner's permission I shall speak in my own language.
Rarely have I heard a more blatant misuse of Article 222, because ultimately, and the Commissioner knows it, Article 90 takes precedence over Article 222 and more importantly still, Article 90 makes explicit reference to Articles 85 and 86 for which this Commissioner has responsibility.
It constantly flouts its own principles.
Mr President, I would like to remind Members of this House that we actually asked for this statement.
Of course we cannot continue with the kind of centralized state monopolies that exist in some areas and which do in fact belong to the past.
Then the public services can become an important factor in the construction of a meaningful Europe that is also accepted by all the Member States.
Mr President, for a long time, despite the Commissioner's optimistic suggestions, very little has been said about public services in the Community.
But we must not approach this question from a purely technical, legalistic standpoint.
There are also many questions about the way in which the public services should be organized - with or without a monopoly, for example - and about the rules which should be applied to them, the user system to be applied, the personnel regulations, etc.
But leaving aside these technical or legal questions, a political choice arises - a choice of the way in which we conceive society and the role of the European Union.
Some will point out that, in many countries, the public services have functioned badly or been badly administered.
But that still leaves a great many cases - especially though not exclusively in the vast arena of social services - where the initiative and supervision of the public authority are essential.
The European Union needs to understand this, Commissioner, and to devise - on the occasion of the IGC, for example - a European concept of public service which is not reduced to this very minimalist notion of a universal service of which we hear so much nowadays.
The Union, and especially the Community, must have a policy based both on competition and on the public interest.
Mr President, the Commission's statement on public services, to which we have just been listening, is anything but reassuring.
Today, however, we are seeing constant pressure by the Commission, based on the rules of competition contained in the Treaty, to usurp the prerogative of the Member States by defining what the limit of the public service sector should be, in other words what its nature should be and what the instruments should be that can be used by the nation states for the benefit of their citizens.
There are at least two reasons why we cannot accept this approach as it stands.
In any case, and this is my second reason, that position is entirely justified since the national public services are the instruments available to the Member States to enable them to apply the policies democratically decided upon by their populations.
There are also many of us, myself included, who think that it is in the public interest that private sector methods should always be preferred when possible, and that the public services should always incorporate such methods as far as possible.
That means, of course, that unanimity must be required within the Council whenever the question of competition affects the public service.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are here to take part in a dialogue between Parliament and the Commission, and so I am going to start by telling you the points on which we agree with you - points on which, although it would be an exaggeration to speak of two minds with but a single thought, we can at least speak of two minds with fairly similar thoughts.
Like you, we naturally believe that general interest services are necessary in order to promote the so-called European social model.
Other Members have already said how restrictive we find that concept.
But there is also the fact that the public service is more than just a service for the consumer or a selection of approaches to regional planning - it is also an essential factor in environmental protection, an essential factor in economic and social cohesion, an essential factor in employment policy.
This is clearly an aberration, where you are becoming involved in a way of thinking which credits competition with regulatory virtues that it does not in fact have.
Mr President, public services exist for the public.
And, Mr Van Miert, I would call your attention to this: you said the Commission was very receptive to discussions regarding amendments to the Treaty on this subject.
And I would hope at least to find, in this Parliament, a majority willing to support the Commission on that point.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to participate in the debate today on public services.
But those working in general and the capacity of those out of work to get a sustainable job are in part tied up with this question because telecoms, energy, transport, and post are all essential cost structures within the private sector, for which the traded public service sector is critically important in efficiency terms.
On competition policy, the Liberal Group believes the public service providers must continue to be subject to competition policy through Article 90.
All of us here today have said so far that we recognize that public services, like many other European economic sectors, are undergoing and will continue to undergo, structural change as the European economy integrates and as technological change continues to advance.
With a situation that is so variable, with great plurality and differences in services across the Union, I find it very difficult to understand why the Commission is seeking one simple solution to the current problems of public service.
The solution it proposes, namely liberalization and privatization of services and the introduction of market mechanisms into those sectors, is one of which there has been some experience in some countries in this Union already.
We have to recognise that there are public services within the Union that are of general interest and cannot simply be subject to liberalization and privatization but instead must be made available as public services for the public good.
There are a variety of ways in which it can be done, either changing articles, like Article 90 or Article 3, or by new additions.
However it is done it must be a concrete expression of our belief that public services have an important role to play in a dynamic, wealth-creating European economy that creates jobs and facilitates the efficient operation of the economy but also underpins social justice and creates solidarity.
Mr President, the fact that we are holding a special plenary debate today on the question of the public service shows that things have moved on.
In 1958, the problem would not have been seen in the same light.
Today, the rigorous and successful application of the principles of free competition enshrined in the Treaty of Rome compels us to consider the question of balance between the laws of competition and those of public service.
Everyone concedes that public service is an integral part of the European social model, a constituent element of the economic and social cohesion of Europe.
Well, if we agree on that, we must also agree on including the public service in the Tables of the Law of the European Union.
Last year, in our resolution on the Intergovernmental Conference, this Parliament called for the Treaty of Rome to be amended to incorporate the public service.
A Commission communication is all very well, but it has no binding force.
The public service must be incorporated into the actual text of the Treaty of Rome.
The relevant proposals for amending Article 90, in particular, are on the table.
These first two points are inextricably linked, as far as I am concerned, because the public service charter must be based on the legal force of the Treaty.
Finally, a public service observatory must be able to be set up, to ensure the adaptability of the public service and to ensure that, over and above mere user committees or consumer committees, the citizens participate in the public service market.
Our conviction is that you should propose an amendment to the Treaty of Rome in order to incorporate the public service.
Mr President, I too welcome the opportunity to have this debate with the Commissioner.
We need a new basis and, as many have said, that means changes to the Treaties, be it Article 2, Article 90 or indeed any of the articles on citizens' rights.
This would allow positive policy proposals on public service.
I assume that Parliament will produce a report, that there will be discussions in committee, etc.
I, personally, have quite often talked in terms of a charter.
We are talking about the powers of the European Union and of the Commission, not about social security.
But it must also be said that, in a communication of this kind, we are not acting at that level.
Then there is Article 222.
That, Carole, explains why the Commission cannot become involved in the internal deliberations of the Member States to determine whether a public or private channel should be retained.
But the Commission cannot intervene in the United Kingdom's internal policy on this, or impose any solution, one way or the other.
The Commission, on the basis of Article 90 - please note - found that a form of cooperation existed which, in reality, was a cartel set up among public broadcasting channels, together with one private channel, TF1, which had combined to purchase the rights.
We shall be taking further action here, because I believe we should stand by that policy, making corrections to a number of things, but there are still good reasons for maintaining that policy.
We will have many opportunities to discuss this again, because there are many problems.
Many of you have also drawn attention to another point.
Even so, demonizing competition, as some of you are doing, is really no way to serve the public. (Applause) There are many areas in which a little more competition would be in the public interest.
Mr President, the structural funds report is specifically about 1994 but it is the first year of a six-year programme up to the year 1999 and it is an Ecu 141bn programme over that time, accounting for some 30 % of the European Union's budget.
In fact, there are many good points that come out in this report: the fact that there is relatively little fraud in structural funding; that the new single programming document has worked successfully; and that there are a large number of successful programmes that have rolled-out in the regions of the Union.
We have many directorate-generals involved, three different funds, six different objectives and a number of programmes that go from Community initiatives to Article 7 and Article 10 through to the main structural funding itself.
Apart from perhaps Article 10 and 7 areas, and to a small degree the Community initiatives, we lack and we miss the many synergistic benefits that are available from trans-national cooperation and building up the regions of Europe.
I am depressed by the fact that in terms of tracking payments there is some jubilation in the report that perhaps 75 % of the budgeted payments actually went through during the year.
Well 75 % is not very good in terms of performance but the worst thing to me is that this only measures payments from the European Union to Member States, it does not measure when those payments were actually received by the end-user where employment is created and regional development takes place.
There are no statistics for that whatsoever, so our key measure for how these funds are being used and how quickly they have been applied is not available to us anywhere in this report nor in any information that the Commission has.
That is still a disgrace to me and is something that needs to be put right very quickly.
It is really quite unacceptable that the way in which the system worked in its first year of application is being used as a pretext for judging not the system and its execution but the whole philosophy lying behind the Structural Funds and the role they play in pursuit of the objective of economic and social cohesion.
We must congratulate the rapporteur on adopting our proposals and those of the Committee on Social Affairs and we should like once again to submit our request to the Commission so that, in future, a better assessment might be carried out of the repercussions of structural intervention on employment, in particular in respect of stable employment and women's jobs.
Unfortunately, that seems to be too often the case.
The key problem that I want to highlight today in connection with the Teverson report, in the light of the budgetary debate in 1997 and Council's decision on 25th July to cut structural fund payments in some areas, is the perceived problem of under-utilization of structural funds.
I would like to commend the Commissioner for her decisive action in putting a proposal to the Venice informal Council to improve the efficiency of structural funds.
There are, of course, areas where I believe we can improve performance: better training for administrators through exchanges; streamlining administrative processes; strengthening the role of regions and local authorities; combatting the irregularities in fraud by establishing clear audit trails; better access to information.
Member States must take their own commitments in these areas seriously.
We cannot change the rules half-way through the programmes and we must denounce the hypocrisy of the Council of Ministers of paying lip-service to launch actions on unemployment and then reneging on their commitments to tackle unemployment through structural funds.
We need more accountability, we need more transparency, we need more devolution but we above all need more commitment.
I therefore would like to encourage the Commissioner in her work, to support her in making the case for a strong regional policy and for keeping the focus on our goal of economic and social cohesion.
Ladies and gentlemen, the subject area covered by this report is particularly interesting because 1994 was the first year of the new programme planning period after the review of the structural funds regulation.
The Commission report is very comprehensive.
After all, we MEPs see day after day and in the field how the complexity of the funds and their complicated administration creates incomprehension and uncertainty among Union citizens and other potential beneficiaries in the assisted regions.
One example is that the responsibility for the three existing funds, whose objectives are not always clearly demarcated one from the other, is in fact shared among different directorates-general within the Commission and a large number of national and regional bodies.
Secondly: there is a need to improve the situation of all potential beneficiaries of the funds, not least in the disadvantaged regions and peripheral regions, who often receive information slowly or belatedly.
Like the rapporteur, we regret the lack of participation of Parliament in determining the Financial Perspective - for the period 1994-1999 - for the structural funds and emphasize the need for it to be genuinely involved in the forthcoming decisions on the next programme period for the years 2000-2006.
That principle of economic and social cohesion which - in my opinion and I believe everyone's - is essential for consolidating the European Union itself.
We need information - quality information but also timely information.
Remember that in the documents we are going to discuss in a few minutes, concerning the Structural Funds, for example in Portugal, the figures at our disposal in the document date back to 1991 and do not cover all Portuguese regions.
I should like to conclude by emphasising the need to articulate policies in the European Union, policies on the environment, transport, the building of infrastructures, and the need for more articulation of the policies which help to rectify imbalances which are on one hand, the responsibility of the European Union and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the Member States which also must bear those responsibilities.
However, we believe that the projects in which women participate have been and still are inadequate, and this must be a requirement in the remaining programmes and in future ventures.
Equality between men and women is a commitment acquired by the European Union in Beijing at the Fourth World Conference on Women, and in the Fourth Action Programme on equal opportunities, which means that Member States, the Commission and this Parliament have a duty to include it in the structural funds.
For example, the Member States did not have to prove that they involved their environmental partners in the planning and implementing stages in good time.
The annual report for 1994 provides an assessment of the activities undertaken in the context of the various objectives, with a view to determining their economic impact and isolating specific effects arising from the Community contributions.
This report acknowledges the existence of numerous irregularities, not to say frauds, on the part of the Member States or regions in the use of the structural funds.
In terms of the Community budget, these structural funds amounted to 12 % of the total in 1984, rose to 30 % by 1994, and will amount to 35 % in 1999.
The rapporteur welcomes the increase in the resources committed to the structural funds for the period 1994-1999, amounting to ecu 141, 000 million.
After all, in terms of growth, despite all the aid they have received, Greece and Italy have failed to close the gap that separates them from the Community average.
In terms of convergence of economic criteria, the objectives set by the Council with regard to reducing excessive deficits are not, at present, being complied with.
To think in more general terms: we started from the fact that - not only in 1994 - the use made of structural funds is not satisfactory.
Secondly, we must begin to think about the regulations to be revised and reshaped for 1999 in order to make them more productive and better suited to the new phase of the European Union.
The Union's regional and structural policies can provide substantial support to help overcome regional differences in development, as regional policy appropriations already comprise a third of the Union's budget.
The proportion of national regional policy accounted for by EU programmes of Community initiatives could be further increased, for example by linking the implementation of the Interreg 2 programme and local cooperation and by improving the exploitation of other programmes in urban and rural policy.
Mr President, the report on the Sixth Annual Report on the Structural Funds in 1994 rightly criticizes the structural funds' weaknesses and confirms our view that the structural funds need to be tightened up and that the funding needs to be reduced for the time being.
The Court of Auditors is indeed complaining that the countries concerned did not listen to its proposals for improvement.
However, all of us - Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy, the Commission and the Council too - should ensure that European regional policy achieves certain objectives.
Projects should meet the needs of citizens and of society in the future.
Secondly, I think that more emphasis needs to be placed on the trans-European element in the implementation of the structural funds via support for cooperative actions between regions and Member States as a means to bringing the regions and, indeed, the citizens of Europe into closer involvement.
What the report does say is that there are significant and damaging delays in payments to localities and regions and that some governments deliberately ignore the principle of additionality and use structural fund moneys to pay the wages of their own civil servants.
The Commissioner knows that I was pleased to act as the rapporteur on the latter programmes known collectively as Article 10.
The Commissioner is asked to maintain her enquiries in this respect and I would be grateful if she could address this point in particular in her reply.
Mr President, I should also like to join in the congratulations offered by my colleagues to the rapporteur, who has certainly done an excellent job, with which we agree; hence it is unnecessary to repeat many of the questions which are already included in the report, which we also endorse.
I also believe that it is most important to bear in mind the general approach of all our interventions.
Having said this, it must be added that annual the reports are not sufficient for our Parliamentary work and our responsibility for monitoring and checking these funds.
And it has to be remembered that these funds are very large.
And the only thing we do every year is to approve a budget heading and then receive reports two or three years late.
A possible example is the assessment which needs to be made of additionality, one of the essential requirements of structural fund organization, which in the Commission's own report is very disappointing.
But we are discussing these matters towards the end of 1996.
Mr President, the Teverson report refers to the year 1994.
Over these first two years in which we have not only been a Member State of the European Union but have also been cooperating in European regional policy, we in Austria have also noted these weaknesses, and from that point of view we can also identify some aspects of this report as relevant to us.
There are two particular points I want to take up.
Both the administrative procedures and the general structures are so complex that in the end no-one can pretend to be truly well-informed on the subject.
A delegation from the Committee on Regional Policy also came to Austria, to Styria, and found that we are in fact doing very sensible things with the money, both our own and the money from Europe.
The Teverson report shows that the European Parliament is very interested in cohesion policy and strongly supports it.
I regard the motion for a resolution as part of a continuous dialogue between Parliament and the Commission, which we will have to deepen in coming months, particularly on the occasion of the mid-term review of structural policy in the cohesion report.
The motion for a resolution rightly refers to the Member States and their responsibility in these cases.
I consider it important for the European Parliament to support the Commission in its attempt to agree on solutions with the Member States that will further improve financial control and the implementation of the budget, ensure systematic evaluation and further strengthen the partnership principle in the implementation of structural policy.
The rapporteur regretted that Parliament was not sufficiently involved in the setting up of the structural funds for the period 1994-1999 and called for greater participation in future.
In response to my proposal the Commission has set out guidelines for drawing up the new objective 2 programmes after detailed discussion in Parliament's Committee on Regional policy and I think you will find these in the report in question.
For the rest, this has also meant that we will be able to speed up the procedure for deciding on objective 2 programmes by also making it possible to continue current programmes in agreement with the Member States.
I think we will have to be more specific here in future annual reports.
But let me also say one thing: the fact that structural policy is regional by nature is certainly justified when it is a question of helping disadvantaged regions to catch up on the Community average.
Because of the delays in payments in 1994 that were mentioned, I urged both the Commission departments and the Member States to decide and implement structural measures more rapidly.
Nevertheless, the marked improvement in the execution of the 1995 budget and the greater speed of payments to be expected in 1996 still give no reason to sound the all-clear.
We should not try to build up an even bigger bureaucracy here but make the Member States take on more of their responsibility via our efforts in relation to SCM 2000.
In conclusion, let me assure you that the Commission will take your resolution on board, with the aim of making the 1995 annual report even more informative.
The debate is closed.
The strategy of the regional development plan submitted to the Commission by the Greek Government, which the Commission adopted on 13 July 1994, dovetails with the main objectives of the White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment and centres on five main areas of development: the modernization of basic infrastructures, improvement of the quality of life by means of integrated action in the sectors of urban development, health and social assistance and the environment, the development of human resources, strengthening of the competitiveness of the economic fabric and the reduction of regional disparities and inaccessibility of island areas by means of 13 regional programmes.
It is, therefore, imperative to implement the programmes more rapidly in order to achieve a faster rate of growth in GDP in so far it is influenced by the CSF.
A factor that ought not to be ignored is that the efforts of the Greek Government to achieve the goals of the CSF and the economic sacrifices of the Greek people as a result of the implementation the very painful programme aimed at achieving economic convergence, which are consonant objectives, are being made against a background of conditions more adverse than in any other Member State of the European Union, given that Greece is the only Member State whose territorial integrity is under threat and is forced, as a consequence, to spend a much greater percentage of its - already low - GDP on defence than any other country of the Union.
Secondly, I would point to the current programme involving a very substantial transfer of funds from the EU budget to Portugal - an amount including loans from the EIB of almost ECU 24bn.
This phenomenon seems common to all structural fund programmes, certainly going on our experience in my constituency in Devon with Objective 5b.
Another problem in the Portuguese programme has been that of monitoring and evaluation.
This report, paragraph 3, calls on the authorities in Portugal, as well as the Commission, to take note of the comments of the Court of Auditors in this regard in their special report.
This report also makes several references to education, in particular paragraphs 7 and 9, and it is noteworthy that Priority 1 of the framework programme is developing human resources and promoting employment, with the emphasis on education and training.
My concern here is that the targets set for improvement are ambitious, such as to increase the proportion of young people in higher education from 19 % to 34 %, 35 % to 40 % within the time-frame of the programme.
They include increasing the proportion of connections to the public water supply from 77 % in 1990 to 95 % in 1999.
They include those served by urban waste treatment systems to increase from 43 % to 98 %, quite a jump; those served by sewage treatment systems throughout the country to increase from 21 % to 90 %, an enormous jump.
I hope that Portugal, particularly with its new Government, will be less blinkered than the Socialists and at least give consideration to this prospect.
In the Islands unemployment stands at an explosive 25 % of the economically active population, which in my view is indicative not only of major imbalances in the system of production but also of the educational and vocational training policies followed until now.
As a partial solution to this serious problem, particular attention has been paid within the new Community support framework for Objective 1 to improving and adjusting the production system, and to human resources, with greater emphasis on vocational training, although still below the level of the integrated measures of the ERDF and the European Social Fund.
Thirdly, it has to be said that in general terms Spain is still marked by great disparities which have not been substantially reduced since the first programming period of 1989-1993, and that measures such as those scheduled in the current period continue to be needed.
Nevertheless, examination of the measures shows that the structural funds have served to promote social and economic cohesion, although greater coordination with other Community financial instruments would have been desirable, and the preparation of forecasts taking account of the contributions of the EIB and Cohesion Fund to the Community support framework for Objective 1 would have been particularly useful.
Fourthly, as regards the prospects of success of the current measures, we must bear in mind that in the period 1994-1999 the structural funds will be used in a context of budgetary austerity in Spain, marked by the plan for convergence towards the single currency, and the adjustment policies are bound to affect the results of the planned structural fund measures in one way or another.
Moreover the poor level of integration between the various funds, indicative of excessive compartmentalization of the various Spanish government departments, and in my view inadequate cooperation between the latter and Directorates-General V and XVI lessen the chances of achieving optimum results from these measures.
If we look at the indicator of structural funds received per capita, and note the contributions of the various countries to the Union budget between 1989 and 1993, whereas Spain's contribution represented 1.09 % of its gross domestic product, those of countries such as Germany, France, Denmark, Italy and the United Kingdom are below this figure.
Any analysis of the effectiveness of the structural funds in Spain must certainly take these statistics into account.
In Greece with its proliferation of island communities within the Greek Archipelago and given also the mountainous nature of much of the country, there is a geographical disadvantage that can be overcome and assisted by the Community support framework.
It has been highlighted in every country where Community support has been available is that when the money is spent efficiently and when it is done in consultation with local partnerships and with local authorities, the benefits are enormous not only in economic but also in social terms.
It is particularly important that we in Parliament recognize that there are not only economic benefits of cohesion within the European Union by bringing areas that are underdeveloped closer to, or even above, the European average, but also social benefits in showing each and every citizen that everyone has a right to access the benefits and the magnificence of the European Union.
In particular, I should like to emphasize the Social Fund aspect and access to education, ongoing training and vocational training in particular.
We have seen frightening figures on the number of young people who have been denied access to education simply because of their geographical location or the economic imperatives in the Member States in which they live.
I would ask for this Parliament to give whatever support is necessary to the Commissioner.
Mr President, Mr Chichester, I must congratulate you on your report and your attempt at understanding the Portuguese economy, and the way in which you have tracked down the structural weaknesses in the Portuguese economy and the flaws in its productive capacities, but I should also like to make one remark.
As for education in Portugal, albeit still a major national problem, the situation is not quite as bad as the picture you have painted in your report.
Compulsory schooling in Portugal now lasts nine years, and higher education has an extraordinary attendance in the country; the main problem now facing us is to give the bountiful supply of higher education higher quality standards.
The first stage was a successful one which coincided with the first Community support framework.
There was a second stage, beginning in 1993, when Portugal showed weakness in its economic growth compared with the European average, despite the second Community support framework which was both very ambitious and optimistic.
Although economic growth in Portugal this year is only moderate it is bound to be higher than the Community average.
This means that, in applying the second Community support framework, there are great hopes that Portugal can once again begin to converge with the rest of Europe and that social justice in the country and within the Community can be increased.
However, I would like to point out some aspects which seem to me to be worthwhile.
There is no need, of course, to point out here the importance of this Community support framework for Portugal, for its economy and for the Union's economic and social cohesion, nor do I have to point out the efforts made by Portugal and the success achieved in making use of Community funds.
I should like to highlight two or three ideas in the report which seem to me particularly important.
The first refers to the importance of the participation by local communities in promoting initiatives, defining economic development strategies and, consequently, creating employment.
This report shows the satisfactory results for real convergence achieved in Portugal over recent years but also points out the need for continually monitoring those developments in great detail, and to find out more accurately the impact of financial measures taken through the Structural Funds as well as the results obtained, and finding out exactly what those results were.
There are two ways of tackling these disparities: focusing resources more, on one hand, on regions facing greater imbalances and on actions which are more specifically targeted at special problems, bearing in mind that different answers are needed for different problems.
We see the question of economic and social cohesion in a broader perspective.
Our work will only have effects if we tackle the imbalances within the European Union and if we also tackle those which exist within the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this analysis of structural actions in Portugal shows that, essentially, the objectives which had already been agreed between the Commission and the Portuguese Government have been achieved, either during the first Community support framework or during the first two years of the second.
A point which has become very obvious in the discussion of this report and one which is topical in Portugal is that the participation of both sides of industry and the participation of local and regional authorities - in the latter case heightened by the revelations of democratic illegitimacy in five of the seven regions presented by the then Portuguese government to the Community authorities - has been very limited in the definition of regional development plans and their monitoring.
Despite the overall effects of the Community support frameworks we have also seen that structural actions have not prevented the worsening of regional imbalances between coastal and inland areas, between conurbations and villages, between most of the mainland and the ultra-peripheral islands.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we Members of Parliament welcome the diversification of the new programme planning in the three countries Greece, Spain and Portugal, especially the concentration of investment on important infrastructure measures, the more broadly-based assistance to services and the more broadly-based assistance to employment, we nevertheless call for urgent improvements in the implementation of the structural funds in these countries.
It is also urgently necessary for the Greek authorities to implement the provisions of the regulation, to include regional and local authorities in the planning and implementation of projects and to insert the projects, in particular the transport projects, into an integral, sustained development strategy in order to avoid any adverse effects on regional planning and the environment.
It is true that there are still great regional disparities in Spain, but it is also true that our GDP is moving ever closer to the Community average.
In this connection the structural funds have contributed very substantially, not only to this process of convergence, in terms of income per capita, but also to the major change which has taken place in the Spanish regions in terms of modernization of the production base, better linkage between areas, vocational training and generally improved levels of wellbeing.
Spain is making a great effort to achieve the nominal convergence objectives required for access to the single currency.
The structural funds and the Cohesion Fund are thus of inestimable help to the process of real convergence of the least developed Spanish regions.
And I entirely agree with the rapporteur that the effort to overcome regional disparities within the European Union will only achieve success when the objective of economic and social cohesion is included in the formulation and implementation of all Community policies.
The evaluation is needed, but as a measure serving basically to draw conclusions to be taken up where possible in order to improve both the scope of the Funds and the actual evaluation system.
It must reach - and really reach - local bodies and the actual potential beneficiaries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this evening's debate on the structural funds is of great importance, and I should like to stress that, although these funds account for almost 30 % of the European Union budget, this budget is less than 2 % of the gross domestic product of all the Community Member States.
Hence we may expect good results from the structural funds, but we must also be aware of their amount in relation to the Community's gross domestic product.
I believe progress has been made here and that the participation of local and regional authorities, in strict and intelligent application of the principle of subsidiarity, can contribute to a more effective use of the structural funds.
In this connection is has to be recognised that each State of the European Union has a different internal structure and that in some the powers of regions and local authorities will allow more effective use of the money assigned to the structural funds.
It could be said that, if the country had had the same growth rate, in other words around 1 % greater than the European average, since the beginning of the century as it has had in recent years it would now be one of the most highly developed countries in Europe.
It is true that, for example, in European Parliament reports on the IGC no-one could refer to the budget because money was a taboo word.
The Commission could do the three 'cohesion countries' great service by producing a thorough evaluation report which could be used by governments to correct policies.
We must get across the message that the European dimension of national policies must be present in all areas.
We have put questions on this matter on several occasions, since construction work carried out two or three years ago are now in very poor shape.
On more than one occasion I have recalled the case of 'Motorway 92' in Andalusia, which was completed in 1992 and is currently unusable.
Finally, Mr President, Commissioner, it has to be said that, looking to the future, these structural funds are tremendously important to countries with a low level of development, despite problems of management and evaluation, and we hope that, between Council, Commission and Parliament a formula will be found for them to continue after 1999.
Mr President, I thank the three rapporteurs and the committees responsible for the excellent reports and above all for the work achieved at the hearings, which well describe the programme situation in the field.
Infrastructure investment must be directed more at the structurally weakest regions and integrated in a strategy of sustained development.
Even though, contrary to what many people feared, the rate for Greece is almost exactly the average for all fifteen Member States in terms of the take-up of funds for 1994-96 and last year ECU 400 million more appropriations were committed than planned, there are a few programmes that urgently need to be adjusted.
The creation and protection of jobs is a priority that is to receive greater attention in the interim evaluation of the operational measures, namely by giving priority to the use of the deflator for jobcreation measures and by the creation of regional employment initiatives on a partnership basis.
Mr Chichester, the goals are certainly ambitious, but I do not think they are entirely unrealistic if we make joint efforts.
The Commission has therefore supported Spain and Portugal with the appropriate studies and is offering a range of instruments for common action in this area under INTERREG 2 C.
With regard to the involvement of regional and local authorities, let me point out that at the Commission's instigation a special committee was set up in every region in order to involve the regions in the decision-making process and integrate the programme implementation more closely.
When it comes to the mid-term review, the Commission will examine on a basis of partnership with Spain, as it will with all the other Member States, whether the chosen strategy for achieving the goals set for 1999 are appropriate or whether some of the individual intervention measures need adjusting.
In the past Spain in particular took the position that the evaluation was no business of the Commission's.
The debate is closed.
Commissioner, the 1995 R &amp; D report we are discussing today is the first the Commission has submitted under the provisions of Article 130p and we agreed in committee that this report is acceptable as a first attempt of its kind.
Until now, and that is certainly a positive aspect, this report has provided a broad overview of research activities, a broad and good overview.
If these five criteria are respected, the report really can make a substantial contribution to the European Union's further research activities.
I hope that the reports drawn up at the beginning of each year can be submitted rather sooner in future to give us sufficient time to debate them and reach conclusions.
We have seen over the years how specific programmes keep being drawn up in the same way because that is how it always was.
Last point: I wonder whether we should not as a matter of principle and in view particularly of the fifth framework programme also give some thought to whether evaluation as it currently stands makes any sense or not.
It also complies with a specific commitment laid down by Article 130p) of the Treaty on the European Union.
This report includes a number of specific data relating to various programmes, but without adding any appropriate analysis.
There is, for example, a clear increase in the number of unsatisfied applications for participation, because the Member States have reduced part of the funds intended for research.
In this context, and in order to limit applicants' wastage of time and money, it is essential to make an effort to simplify applications for access to the programmes.
I believe that the Community budget allocated to research must not be reduced.
The European Union's research and development policy is, indeed, the key to the future development and competitiveness of our undertakings by comparison with our competitors - especially by comparison with our natural competitors, the United States and Japan, but also by comparison with the new emerging countries whose capacities for production and marketing must in future be taken into account.
Hitherto, they have derived little benefit from the programmes proposed by the Commission.
Finally, an effort at coordination should be made between the Community programmes and the Member States' research activities, for example encouraging appropriate distribution of the results.
Its purpose will be to allow a comparison between the implementation and the results of the various programmes.
It addresses not the annual report for 1995 as the title would suggest, but the report on Union research activities carried out in 1994 and the third framework programme.
I urge the Commission to take due note of conclusion 12 that in future annual reports should be considered as soon as possible in the following year and by 31 March at the latest.
The annual report is written in exclusively positive terms, there is nothing about the problems that reasonably arise in this type of activity.
The EU must do much, much better here in future.
So what I would like to do this evening is briefly to recall the nature and function of the annual report on the Union's research activities, to place that report in its context amid the overall apparatus for providing information on, evaluating and monitoring research activities, and finally to let you know what improvements the Commission intends to make to that apparatus, along the lines of the recommendations contained in your motion for a resolution.
The submission by the Commission of an annual report on the Union's research activities complies with an obligation stated in Article 130p) of the Treaty.
The annual report is not an evaluating report.
The Commission's communication of 22 May 1996 on the evaluation and monitoring of the programmes makes a very clear distinction between two functions.
The monitoring function is provided through the annual monitoring reports on the specific programmes and the framework programme.
With this in mind, five-yearly reports evaluating these specific programmes and the framework for them are prepared by panels of independent experts.
The first monitoring reports have been sent to the European Parliament.
The first five-year evaluation reports are in preparation, and will be available at the end of the year, at the time of the debate on the fifth framework programme.
As far as the framework programme is concerned, Mr Étienne Davignon is chairing the group responsible for preparing this report.
The 1995 annual report certainly leaves room for improvement.
The communication being prepared for tomorrow, which provides guidelines on the fifth framework programme, explicitly refers to the need to develop an instrument of the indicator type which enables the progress and performance of the programmes to be measured.
The debate is closed.
Common system of value-added tax The next item is the report (A4-0225/96) by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC on the common system of Value Added Tax (level of the standard rate) (COM(95)0731 - C4-0153/96-95/0362(CNS)).
Mr President, the Commission proposal amending the directive on the common system of value added tax was discussed in detail in recent months in the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy as the committee responsible.
Under the Commission's proposal the Council, however, will have to decide not later than 1998 whether the spread of value added tax rates should be further reduced.
In this connection I would like, as rapporteur, to give my views on the amendment tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which rejects the 25 % ceiling.
I would thank Mr Monti personally for not losing sight of the objective of tax harmonization in spite of a rather sobering interim balance sheet and for not being discouraged from making constructive proposals in spite of the manifold opposition from the Member States.
Mr Langen made the point earlier that at least two Member States are already very close to that 25 % threshold.
Because under the current system, as a study conducted for the Commission reveals, there is no fundamental distortion of competition between Member States.
Mr President, first I want to give warm thanks to Mr Langen for his clear and convincing report, which of course deserves our approval.
The German Social Democrats have even objected to the possibility of an increase from 15 % to 16 % and they certainly consider it totally wrong to cease to apply the ceiling rates.
That is why I cannot understand, Mr Metten, why you are even questioning the 25 % rate today, which would of course mean that even higher rates than this one would be possible.
We cannot and do not want that; quite the contrary, I am convinced that the European Union must in fact take further fiscal measures in the coming months and years in order to put an end to tax evasion.
Mr President, the harmonization of value-added tax is both wrong in principle and unworkable in practice.
Tax harmonization also violates an important principle in all democratic systems, namely a people's right to tax itself.
Economic barriers to trade which distort competition arise when goods from a country or region are discriminated against, for example by imposing a tariff targeted at another country or the rest of the world in general.
Every country in a democratic system should be able to decide on its own taxes.
Member States must have the right, if they consider it appropriate, to increase value-added tax to a rate above the proposed limit of 25 %.
Imposing this upper limit is tantamount to putting an upper limit on public services.
In practice the Member States are applying standard rates of VAT ranging from 15 % to 25 %.
Community legislation on VAT requires the Commission to table a proposal for regulating the situation after 31 December 1996.
The Directive which we propose does not oblige any Member State to change the standard VAT rate in force at present: it only guarantees maintenance of the current degree of harmonization of VAT rates, thus enabling the transitional system to continue functioning properly, or, in other words, ensuring that there will be no worsening.
A further divergence of VAT rates might in fact of itself create structural imbalances and distort competition in a number of sectors of the economy.
It would also be inadvisable to allow a wider spread of the standard VAT rates in force in the Member States at a time when the introduction in the single market of a new common VAT system based on the country-of-origin principle is being contemplated.
To enable such a system to function it will in any case be necessary to bring VAT rates appreciably closer together.
The proposal we have submitted to you sets the range within which the standard VAT rates must lie for a period of only two years, 1997 and 1998.
I would also like to emphasize that by this proposal we are complying with an express provision of the Sixth VAT Directive but at the same time taking the first step towards implementing the programme for moving on to the new common system.
If we want the single market to be truly single and to produce all its positive effects, in terms of growth and employment, we must complete it in respect of taxes - this being an aspect which several Members of this Assembly have emphasized.
The adoption of the Directive before you today is an important political signal of the Community's determination to make life easier for its enterprises and its citizens.
The present proposal could hardly, therefore, constitute any real constraint for them in relation to a margin for manoeuvre which they have already used.
This proposal should be regarded as solely a temporary safeguarding measure which does not prejudge the level of VAT rates necessary for the common VAT system.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report proposes that Directive 91/439 be amended in order to adopt a basic harmonized set of codes for the additional information to be included on driving licences and the principles governing their use in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, as can be seen from Article 1; to set up a committee to advise the Commission on all questions relating to the annexes to Directive 91/439 and to scientific and technical progress (Article 2); to adapt Article 3(3), third indent, of Directive 91/439 to bring this provision more into line with the trade description, including a reduction in the maximum design speed for motorcycles from 50 km/h to 45 km/h.
As rapporteur I have favourably received the Commission's proposal, which harmonizes the system for codifying on driving licences the wording of the conditions under which the licence has been issued.
This having been said, as rapporteur I have sought to meet the specific requirements and requests made by certain Member States in the amendments brought to the attention of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and which I now present to Parliament.
Firstly, in addition to the information codes, the Commission should also propose in the near future the subcodes already worked out in meetings between the Commission and national experts, particularly for codes 04 (medical certificate), 05 (restrictions for medical reasons), 44 (modifications to motor cycles) and 55 (combination of modifications to motorcycles).
Furthermore, the additions requested to codes 70 and 71 concerning the indication of the symbol of the third country in accordance with the harmonized EEC/UN list would make for a better understanding in cases where a holder is exchanging a driving licence obtained in a third country.
The addition of a code 79 is therefore intended to meet the requirements of certain Member States.
This would make it possible to cater for cases of equivalence between the categories of licence issued before 1 July 1996 and the categories defined in Article 3 of Directive 91/439.
The use of this code 79 would be restricted to cases where the rights acquired by holders of a licence obtained before 1 July of next year might need to be maintained.
The other changes set out in Amendment No 5 - to codes 02 (hearing aids) and 03 (prosthesis/orthosis) - are intended to introduce greater clarity.
On the basis of this working party's conclusions, the Commission could table a legislative proposal by 31 March 1997.
Finally, Amendments Nos 2 and 6 are designed to replace the management committee (type IIa) for the adaptation to technical and scientific progress of Annexes I and Ia (model driving licences), II (driving test requirements) and III (physical fitness for driving) of Directive 91/439 on driving licences by a more flexible technical advisory committee, as suggested by the Conference of Presidents, for the application of the modus vivendi on comitology.
If Member States do not want to issue new driving licences every year, it is therefore impossible for them to implement the directive.
The example of France has made it impressively clear how the number of road accidents can be reduced by 10 % in the space of one year.
The Commission has now put forward further proposals on these lines.
This type of information can in future also be included in an international, harmonized coding system by entering, in coded form, the illness a particular person suffers from or the medicine on which he or she vitally depends.
This applies to Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7.
Mr President, since 1980 there have been a number of steps towards a Community driving licence, all of them aimed at better road safety and freedom of movement for individuals within the Union.
I too believe that the proposal will contribute to the free movement of persons in the Community, particularly persons with disabilities and will contribute to road safety, by making it easier throughout most of Europe to check driving licences where so required.
However, this evening I would like to highlight Amendments Nos 4 and 7, which seek the mutual recognition of the disqualification of driving licences.
At present, bans imposed for dangerous driving are only enforceable in the Member State where the offence was committed, not elsewhere in the European Union.
This means, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom, non-UK citizens banned for a serious offence whilst on holiday in the UK, will have their licences returned once their holiday ends and can then drive freely elsewhere in the rest of the European Union.
The amendments tabled by the Transport and Tourism Committee seek to close this very serious loophole.
I thank the rapporteur for his work and would merely urge Members not to vote for Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Community model of what will continue to be national driving licences is finally being perfected.
This system of codes will definitely lead to greater freedom of movement for the individual, especially for the handicapped in the EU, and to greater road safety and legal certainty.
Mr President, this is the first occasion on which I have had the pleasure of addressing Parliament since the lamented death of Ken Stewart who was a Member of this House and of the Committee on Transport and of the party which I was once privileged to lead.
I should like to pay tribute to the memory of Ken Stewart.
Mr President, the House will be aware that the 1991 directive on driving licences entered into force on 1 July this year.
We therefore proposed that any addition or restriction put on the licence would be in code form instead of in words so that the Greek police, for instance, would be able to cope with a Danish licence, not only for tourists but for people who had taken up permanent residence in their country.
The list of codes has been thoroughly discussed both in this House and in the Council and I am pleased to see that there is broad agreement, as has been evidenced by the contributions made in this debate again, on the basic formulation.
The new committee established for this directive will update this list of codes where necessary and that committee will also be useful in helping to solve potential problems like those which could arise for example out of developments in medical standards for drivers.
Amendment No 1 and most of the changes proposed under Amendment No 5 are therefore accepted.
As to the other amendments, Amendment No 2 is an unnecessary addition since the Commission will naturally respect the agreement on the code of conduct.
Amendment No 6 is not in conformity with Council Decision 87/373 on comitology and therefore cannot be accepted.
Amendment No 3 is not appropriate for inclusion in this text.
However, I repeat only to emphasize that this House will have the opportunity to give its opinion on any such development in line with the cooperation procedure.
Clearly, I and my colleagues are in sympathy with the arguments in favour of developments - and of what would be Amendment No 3 - that have been offered in the course of this debate.
Amendments Nos 4 and 7 fall outside the scope of the proposal.
Should the position evolve on this point, the committee provided for in Article 2 will be empowered to introduce the necessary changes.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, over a period of many years the European Parliament has taken several initiatives to improve safety for passengers on ferries.
In many respects, this is of course the consequence of a number of very tragic accidents that have cost many people their lives.
But as a pressure group and when it comes to demanding standards, not least for the improvement of safety in different areas, one could say that this Parliament is pretty well unbeatable.
I think we should actually make use of this power much more in order to tighten up safety standards in other areas too.
The waters around the Member States of the EU must be the safest in the world.
With that, Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report and the Commission for a particularly constructive dialogue.
To pick up on Commissioner Kinnock's words, I should also like to pay tribute to my comrade Ken Stewart.
It is ironic that we are discussing safety at sea tonight because, as many people here know, that was Ken's main interest within Parliament.
We have also had the Herald of Free Enterprise .
As this report correctly points out, the advancing age of many sea-going vessels and the rapid deterioration in maintenance standards means that safety standards are becoming harder and harder to uphold.
Too many companies are flouting international safety standards and escaping prosecution.
Turning now to the amendments which have been tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the Socialist Group will be supporting all the amendments with the exception of Amendment No 16.
The only amendment we have some difficulty with is Amendment No 16.
I mentioned at the start of this speech the ongoing everyday accidents which happen at sea, many of which are never reported because many of the vessels involved are so small that they do not warrant attention.
Mr President, there have been a number of Commission proposals in recent times aimed at improving safety at sea.
Moreover, passenger ships on international voyages can also be exempted from safety requirements in certain circumstances and new types of high-speed craft are subject to inadequate and vastly different rules in the various Member States.
His safe seas report highlighted the need for action in areas such as the one we are debating here this evening.
His report, in my view and in the view of many people in this House, will continue for many years to act as the benchmark against which we judge progress in this area.
I am sure we all share the view put by Mr Stenmarck and by others that when implemented this measure will provide further support for our efforts to try to ensure a high and uniform level of protection of human life in Community waters and to avoid the distortion of competition that would arise from cutting corners on maritime safety.
I would simply mention that our proposals on the roll-on/roll-off ferry licensing system will be put to the Commission before the end of this year and then go into the procedure which clearly will involve this House.
Consequently, I hope that on reflection the Socialist Group will give further attention to its position and hopefully be able to conclude that the Commission's position in response to that amendment is satisfactory.
Further, the Commission can accept Amendment No 17 postponing from 1 July 1997 to the year 2000 the implementation of some of the requirements in the technical annex.
Secondly, the timetable in this measure is completely in line with the timetable in the safety of life at sea convention.
Consequently by having a similar period of transition, there is no danger of distortion between international and domestic considerations.
The Commission can also understand the basic concern behind Amendment No 18.
An amendment to Article 8 will be necessary to empower the committee to undertake the task of re-examining the technical annex.
The Commission welcomes in particular Amendment No 12 and the second part of Amendment No 11 which provides for a more active role by the host Member State in cases where existing class C and D ships flying the flag of another Member State are to be engaged on domestic voyages in the host Member State.
The Commission believes that this approach is far more appropriate than the request to change this proposal into a minimum standard directive.
I hope the House will understand our reasons.
We cannot agree to Amendment No 1 or to the first part of Amendment No 11, or to the words 'at least' being added in Amendments Nos 6 and 8.
In our view, these amendments would weaken the proposal and be detrimental to the envisaged harmonization of safety at the highest possible level.
If this approach is supported by this House, the Commission can accept the principle of Amendment No 8 provided it is transferred from paragraph 1 to paragraph 2 of Article 5.
I hope the House is entirely clear about what I am proposing.
With regard to the request in Amendment No 5 to mention protection of the environment as one of the purposes of the directive, I have to draw the attention of the House to the fact that prevention of pollution from ships is regulated by the International MARPOL Convention which also applies to passenger ships engaged in domestic voyages.
I therefore see no need for duplication of these international environmental obligations in our proposals and I suggest that the amendment is therefore withdrawn.
The same reasoning applies to Amendment No 3 which requests high-speed passenger craft to comply with special rules in addition to this directive.
It should be noted that these special rules are already clearly defined and referred to in this directive and that the proposed amendment would only create confusion.
Further, I do not see the need for the addition proposed in Amendment No 10 since sea areas are clearly defined and explicitly referred to for the application of each single requirement in this proposal.
Summing up, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20 and the second part of No 11 and can subscribe to the principles of Amendments Nos 8 and 18 provided they are redrafted to take account of the suggestions I have made.
I conclude by thanking the House for facilitating the early adoption of a common position on this important measure which will have direct and considerable impact on the safety provisions for our fellow citizens travelling in Community waters.
The debate is closed.
the proposal for a Council Regulation introducing a Community aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits (COM(96)0177 - C4-0321/96-96/0120(CNS)); II.on the amended proposal for a Council Regulation on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (COM(96)0177 - C4-0321/96-95/0247(CNS)).
Mr President, I should first of all like to congratulate the Commission on the proposals put to us, despite minor differences which have emerged in the amendments.
The Commission's proposal does, however, contain some features which need improvement, and the Committee on Agriculture has approved various amendments which I should like to put forward.
Secondly, the threshold level proposed by the Commission, particularly in the case of secondary citrus fruits (265, 000 tonnes) seems too tight, since the average of the last five seasons was about 264, 000 tonnes, and the Committee on Agriculture has therefore felt the need to raise it to 365, 000 tonnes.
The third adjustment sets a certain limit to the penalties provided for in the proposal.
We accept 1 % loss of aid for every 1 % by which the threshold is exceeded, which is the present system, but the Committee on Agriculture proposes that the penalty should never exceed 20 % of the amount of the aid, since we believe that if this limit were exceeded the aid system would become non-viable.
For these reasons I think the Commission should take account of this contribution by the Committee on Agriculture in the citrus processing sector.
Finally, I must say that encouraging the use of processing will always be preferable to a policy of withdrawal or destruction of the product, and on this point we could not be more in agreement with the Commission's proposals.
We urge the Commission, as proposed in our Amendment No 10, to increase the processing threshold by 190, 000 tonnes for oranges, 64, 000 for lemons and 110, 000 for mandarins, clementines and satsumas.
Mr President, Commissioner Kinnock has just received a warm ovation for this report, which, undeniably, is of positive value.
First of all, the possibility of granting Community aid directly to the world of production via the producers' organizations.
The main ones are: a reference band for contracts concluded by the producers' organizations, the 15 % increase for multiannual contracts concluded by those organizations and the 10 % reduction for contracts concluded by individual producers.
It should be noted, however, that in order to balance the relationship with the industrial costs of third countries, the extent of the aid in the reference band will have to be increased up to at least 80 per cent of the price for withdrawal of the fresh produce from the market.
An important objective is that, pursued by the Commission, of strengthening the role of the producers' organizations, as was said earlier, by involving them directly in the negotiations, in the drawing up of contracts and above all in the paying out of the Community aid.
Lastly, the Community threshold ought to be divided into national thresholds and, in the event of over-shooting, there should be offsetting between Member States.
Mr President, as the House will know, the draft reform of the Community support regime for the processing of citrus fruits is the final phase of the reform of the common organization of the markets in the fruit and vegetable sector.
One proposal sets up a new aids scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits and, following on from that, the other modifies the draft in the fresh fruit and vegetable sector.
Before the House decides on the proposed amendments, I would like to indicate the position which the Commission takes on those amendments.
They aim to set out general principles, one concerning the commitments of the Council of September 1993 for financial solidarity and Community preference, the other concerning the need to direct the European citrus processing industry towards the manufacture of new products.
The Commission offers two comments on these amendments.
Such a modification of the regulation arrangements seems unnecessary but the Commission will nevertheless seek to ensure that the final decision by the Council on the amounts in the annex takes account of the decision of the 23-24 July Council on the Community withdrawal compensation.
Amendment No 4, which proposes to increase the threshold for mandarins, clementines and satsumas by 100, 000 tonnes cannot be accepted because it goes against the principle used to fix the threshold of other citrus fruits, which is based on the quantities usually processed.
Amendment No 5 limits the decrease of aid in the event of overshooting the threshold.
The Commission cannot accept this because any limitation of the decrease in aid harms the efficiency of the threshold system and moreover might actually provoke budgetary overshoots.
Amendment No 6 is already in the current proposal, given that in the case of overshooting the threshold the aid is reduced and therefore available credits will always be respected.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are superfluous because they are already covered in Article 6 of the proposal.
I also express my appreciation to my dear colleague Franz Fischler, whose unavoidable working absence tonight gave me the great honour and opportunity to contribute to an agricultural debate.
The debate is closed.
